 investing - in world class assets 
in the most attractive commodities
We	own,	operate	and	grow	world	class	
mining	assets	in	those	commodities		
that	we	believe	deliver	the	best	returns	
through	the	economic	cycle	and	over		
the	long	term.	
We	aim	to	focus	on	those	commodities		
in	which	we	have	advantaged	positions		
and	on	large	scale	assets	with	long	lives,	
low	cost	profiles	and	with	clear	expansion	
potential,	that	is:	copper,	diamonds,	iron	
ore,	metallurgical	coal,	nickel,	platinum		
and	thermal	coal.
oU r Fo Ur strategi C ele Ments Anglo American aims to be the leading global mining company -  
the investment, the partner and the employer of choice - through 
the operational excellence of world class assets in the most 
attractive commodities and a resolute commitment to the highest 
standards of safe and sustainable mining. 
De Fining o Ur a MBition o Ur strategy investing 
World class assets  
in the most attractive 
commodities
eM ploying The best people
Be Co Ming  
the l ea Ding  
Mining Co Mpany 
Investment, partner  
and employer  
of choice
organising Efficiently and 
effectively
o perating Safely, 
sustainably and 
responsibly
k ey strategi C h ighlights 
Anglo	American	performed	strongly	in		
2010,	both	operationally	and	financially,		
and	we	have	continued	to	deliver	on		
our	clear	strategic	objectives.	Strategic	
highlights	from	the	year	include:
1 
We	 have	 completed	 $3.3	 billion	 of	 divestments	
of	non-core	businesses,	including	our	zinc	
portfolio,	Moly-Cop	and	AltaSteel,	five	
undeveloped	coal	assets	in	Australia	and	a	
number	of	Tarmac's	European	businesses.	
We	have	received	strong	interest	in	the	
remaining	businesses	and	will	divest	those	in	
a	manner	and	on	a	timetable	that	maximise	
value.	In	February	201 1,	we	announced	our	
intention	to	combine	the	UK	businesses	of	
Tarmac	and	Lafarge,	to	create	a	leading	UK	
construction	materials	company
10 Anglo American plc		  		 Annual	 Report	 2010
 
Our focused commodity businesses are  
driving superior operating performances, 
through major productivity improvements, 
disciplined cost management and the  
significant benefits of our asset optimisation  
and global supply chain programmes.
Cynthia Carroll
Chief executive
OVERVIEW: Our strategy eM ploying - the best people
Our	 people	 are	 as	 vital	 to	 our	 success	 as	 	
our	 mining	 assets.	
We	are	committed	to	our	people,	who	
determine	how	effectively	we	operate	and	
build	our	reputation	with	our	investors,	
partners	and	fellow	employees	every	day,	
and	whom	we	require	to	uphold	our	values.	
Ultimately,	it	is	our	people	who	will	realise	
our	ambition	and	deliver	our	strategy	to	be	
the	leading	global	mining	company.
o rganising - efficiently 
and effectively
Our	 structure	 aims	 to	 facilitate	 the	 	
delivery	 of	 performance	 and	 efficiencies	 	
to	 outperform	 the	 competition.	
Each	 commodity	 business	 unit	 is	 focused	 	
on	 operational	 excellence,	 project	 delivery	 	
and	 driving	 its	 cost	 position	 further	 down	 	
its	 industry	 curve,	 while	 the	 lean	 corporate	
centre	 facilitates	 the	 extraction	 of	 value	
beyond	 what	 is	 achievable	 by	 the	 	
businesses	 alone.	
Through	 close	 collaboration,	 value-driven	
leadership,	 the	 sharing	 of	 best	 practice,	
technical	 innovation,	 operational	 know-how	
and	 the	 pursuit	 of	 synergies	 in	 key	 value-
driving	 functions	 such	 as	 supply	 chain	 and	
asset	 optimisation,	 the	 substantial	 benefits	 	
of	 Anglo	 American's	 scale	 and	 performance	
oriented	 culture	 are	 realised.
o perating - safely, sustainably 
and responsibly
Operating	safely,	sustainably	and	
responsibly	is	embedded	in	everything	we	
do.	The	safety	of	our	people	is	our	key	core	
value	and	we	are	relentless	in	striving	to	
achieve	our	goal	of	zero	harm.	
We	are	committed	to	environmental	
stewardship	and	minimising	the	
environmental	impact	of	our	operations.	
We	 aim	 to	 make	 a	 sustainable	 and	 positive	
difference	 to	 community	 development	 and	
act	 with	 integrity	 to	 build	 respectful	
relationships	 with	 the	 societies	 in	 which	 we	
work.	 Behaving	 in	 this	 way,	 supported	 by	
strong	 governance	 and	 risk	 management	
processes,	 enables	 us	 to	 develop	 and	 helps	
maintain	 trust	 with	 all	 our	 stakeholders	 and	
create	 value,	 which	 is	 fundamental	 to	 our	
ability	 to	 deliver	 superior	 long	 term	 returns	 to	
our	 shareholders.
oU r Fo Ur strategi C ele Ments 2
We	have	exceeded	all	expectations	by	
achieving	asset	optimisation	and	procurement	
benefits	of	$2.5	billion	from	our	core	
businesses	alone	(including	one-off	benefits),	
well	ahead	of	our	201 1	target	of	$2	billion
3
We	 have	 made	 excellent	 progress	 on	 our	 four	
major	 projects,	 enabling	 us	 to	 start	 up	 a	 major	
project	 every	 six	 to	 nine	 months	 over	 the	 next	
few	 years.	 The	 first	 of	 these,	 the	 Barro	 Alto	 nickel	
project,	 will	 begin	 production	 on	 schedule	 in	
March	 2011,	 more	 than	 doubling	 our	 Nickel	
business'	 output	 when	 it	 reaches	 full	 production.	
The	 expansion	 of	 our	 Los Bronces	 copper	
operation	 in	 Chile	 and	 the Kolomela	 iron	 ore	
project	 in	 South	 Africa	 are	 progressing	 on	
schedule	 and	 on	 budget.	 We	 have	 also	 secured	
key	 licences	 and	 permits	 for	 the	 Minas-Rio	 iron	
ore	 project	 in	 Brazil,	 and	 expect	 civil	 works	 	
for	 the	 beneficiation	 plant	 and	 tailings	 dam	
construction	 to	 begin	 in	 March	 2011	
4 
We	continue	to	focus	on	our	safety	
performance	across	the	board	and		
recorded	further	improvements	during		
the	year,	with	fatalities	and	lost	time	injury	
rates	both	continuing	to	reduce.	We	have	
now	achieved	a	near	70%	improvement		
in	safety	since	2006	as	we	pursue	our		
goal	of	zero	harm.
1 1 Anglo American plc		  		 Annual	 Report	 2010
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information
 
In 2010 we considerably strengthened 
our balance sheet and are well positioned 
to finance our project pipeline and to 
take advantage of any attractive M&A 
opportunities.
R ne M dori
Finance Director
 
Project delivery is a major challenge in  
our industry. At Anglo American we have 
chosen to focus on the way that we  
develop and approve our projects, ensuring 
that we harness the full capacity of our 
technical resources in a disciplined and 
consistent way.
David Weston
Group Director of Business  
Performance and Projects
 
Creating trust is at the heart of our  
licence to operate; in 2010 we made  
further headway, with another  
significant improvement in our safety 
performance, while extending our 
internationally recognised community 
engagement programme.
Brian Beamish
Group Director of Mining and T echnology
 
Talent development remains a key priority.  
In pursuit of this aim, we launched the  
People Development Way, a global 
capability framework that describes the 
behaviours, knowledge, skills and 
experiences needed to enable Anglo 
American to achieve its strategic objectives.
Mervyn Walker
Group Director of Human Resources  
and Communications