 For Anglo American, the effects of such a difficult macro-
economic environment were exacerbated by operating 
challenges at key operations and adversarial labour relations 
in South Africa. Despite the challenges, significant operating 
improvements in Copper, Metallurgical Coal and Diamonds  
in the second half of the year, and the sharp fall in the South 
African rand in the final quarter, drove a 6% increase in 
underlying operating profit to $6.6 billion, with underlying 
EBITDA increasing to $9.5 billion, up by 7%. After deducting 
tax and profits attributable to non-controlling interests  
(including Diamonds, Platinum and Copper), which 
represented a greater proportion of profit than in 201 2, 
underlying earnings decreased by 7% to $2.7 billion. 
While the Group continued to make progress on the  
broader safety front, the loss of 1 4 colleagues overshadowed 
improvements to lost-time and total accident frequency rates. 
The most significant event was the loss of four colleagues, 
with a further two still missing, at the now-divested Amap  
iron ore operation in Brazil, where a major geological event 
following heavy rainfall led to the loss of the port operation. 
Although the lost-time and total injury rates improved, we  
are deeply distressed that people are still being killed and 
injured while on company business and I am determined  
that we elevate our focus on achieving zero harm.
AROUND THE OPERATIONS
As the year progressed we continued to make solid  
progress at several of our major operations. At Los Bronces 
and Collahuasi, our two biggest copper interests in Chile, 
operational improvements in waste stripping volumes and 
process tonnages supported a significant increase in  
copper production. 
At the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, which is currently 
constrained by waste material, resulting in insufficient 
exposed ore and a consequent fall-off in iron ore output, a 
redesign of the pit and changes to core operating processes 
should result in consistently higher production from 201 5 
onwards. The Sishen challenges have been partially offset  
by an impressive performance from Kolomela, which is now 
operating at well above nameplate capacity. Meanwhile, in 
Brazil, the 26.5 Mtpa Minas-Rio iron ore project was 84% 
complete by the end of the year and remains on track to ship 
its first iron ore by the end of 201 4.
At our underground metallurgical coal mines, production 
improved by 30%, with Moranbah North lifting longwall 
output by 39% on the back of an improvement in cutting 
hours, an increase in automated cutting rates and reduced 
unplanned downtime. Continued focus on discretionary costs 
and productivity has resulted in FOB cash unit costs at the 
Australian operations reducing by 8%. In South Africa, the 
priority is to implement a range of business improvement 
initiatives aimed at driving value at our Thermal Coal mines 
and expansion projects.
Ahead of the furnace rebuilds at Barro Alto in Brazil, which  
will take place from 201 4-2016, our Nickel business has put  
in place a series of initiatives to improve output, reduce costs 
and optimise value. At our Niobium unit, the Boa Vista Fresh 
Rock expansion project, which will raise niobium output by 
around 50%, is due to be commissioned later this year. On  
the Phosphates side of the business, margins are improving 
with more efficient sales pricing initiatives, and expansion 
opportunities are being evaluated in order to meet the 
agriculture market's growing demand for fertilisers.
In 201 3, our Platinum business faced significant challenges. 
Cost pressures in the older, deep-level operations have been 
driven by double-digit increases in power rates, declining 
productivity and labour unrest. If we add continuing price 
pressure exerted by declining automotive demand, this was  
a severely challenging year for the Platinum business. We 
finalised a  root-and-branch' review of the business to address 
the changed fundamentals of the platinum industry and to 
understand the primary drivers of the dramatic reduction in 
profitability across the sector. Following an extensive but 
Mark Cutifani
FOCUSED  
ON DELIVERY
2013 - A TESTING YEAR 
The year under review was an extremely testing 
one for the mining industry. Against a backdrop of 
weaker growth in the world economy, particularly 
in the emerging economies, commodity demand 
remained soft with a decline in average realised 
prices for most of the commodities the Group 
produces. The material exception was iron ore.
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT
COMPLETION AT THE MINAS-RIO 
IRON ORE PROJECT
84%
For more information
See page 54
PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT  
AT OUR METALLURGICAL COAL 
UNDERGROUND MINES
30%
For more information 
See page 60
08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 constructive process of engagement with government and 
the unions, our labour force is being aligned with operational 
requirements. We are putting the review's proposals  
into action across the business and concentrating on those  
assets with sustained profitability potential, while adjusting 
production more closely with current product demand.
De Beers had a good year and was able to increase output 
against a background of rising demand. In Botswana, flagship 
mine Jwaneng drove higher production as it recovered from a 
slope failure in mid-201 2, while Orapa recorded slightly higher 
output. In Canada, Snap Lake lifted the number of carats 
recovered by around 50% as it revised mining methods and 
operating practices.
OUR STRATEGY IS ALL ABOUT DELIVERY
We are making headway on our strategy, which builds off 
three key elements: investing in high quality, competitively 
positioned assets to create a portfolio of businesses that meet 
our customers' changing needs; delivering sustainable value 
by organising our business, our people and the way we work 
to outperform across the value chain, while mining safely and 
responsibly; and treating all of our stakeholders with care and 
respect and partnering with them to reach their potential, 
starting with our employees.
In the short to medium term, we are doing so through a 
change programme called Driving Value, which focuses on 
the immediate challenges of revitalising our business while 
laying the foundation for success over the longer term. We 
have set demanding but achievable targets and we are 
determined to meet them by working efficiently and 
effectively to drive significantly greater value from our asset 
base. We are seeing early progress, including in our Platinum 
and Metallurgical Coal businesses, across our Commercial 
initiatives and in reducing early stage project evaluation costs 
by $200 million in 201 3 alone. Our pathway to increase 
margins and returns by 2016 is clear.
What is very apparent to me, after visiting as many 
operations as I could during my first nine months in the job,  
is that Anglo American has several assets of the highest 
quality. Sishen and Kolomela in iron ore; Los Bronces and 
Collahuasi in copper; Jwaneng, Orapa and Venetia in 
diamonds; Mogalakwena in platinum; and Moranbah North 
in metallurgical coal are all world-class assets in a quality, 
diversified commodity portfolio. These assets will be 
augmented as major developing projects such as Minas-Rio 
and the Metallurgical Coal development at Grosvenor in 
Australia come on stream over the next three years.
Just as importantly, we now know what we need to do to 
realise the value potential from such an attractive asset  
base. Following the comprehensive asset review we put in 
train, as part of Driving Value, we have identified a range of 
opportunities which will enable us to better utilise the installed 
capital across our operations, further driving improved 
margins and returns. 
Overall, our assets are in reasonable shape, but, crucially,  
we need to lift returns by focusing on both capital  
deployment and operating performance. During the 
downturn we have seen the mining industry's return on  
capital employed (ROCE) plummet from around 24% to 
about 10%. Anglo American's attributable ROCE fell to  
1 1 % in 201 2 and 201 3. Considering the Company's cost of 
capital, that rate of return is not good enough for us, nor our 
shareholders, and we have set a target for Anglo American  
to reach a sustainable minimum 1 5% attributable ROCE  
by 2016.
Strikingly, more than 80% of our earnings are derived from 
assets in the bottom half of the cost curve and, unsurprisingly, 
we have put the spotlight on those that do not stack up in 
terms of expected ROCE, or which, in our view, do not have 
the potential to deliver material improvements. 
During September, following a thorough assessment of  
our extensive pipeline of long-dated project options, we also 
took the decision to withdraw from the Pebble copper project 
in Alaska. Our focus for the future is to prioritise capital for 
projects with the highest value and lowest risk profiles within 
our portfolio, and to reduce the capital required to sustain 
such projects during the pre-approval phases of development 
as part of a more effective, value-driven capital allocation 
model. In 201 3, this resulted in a reduction in exploration and 
evaluation costs from $731 million in 201 2, to $533 million. 
Driving Value includes managing our assets more efficiently 
and effectively. T o achieve that objective, we need to have the 
right people in the right roles. We are now making progress  
on a far-reaching restructuring programme from top to 
bottom of the organisation. We aim to strip out extraneous 
layers of management in order to enable more direct 
reporting and clearer responsibilities, and have already 
reshaped the senior management team. We have also partly 
remodelled the business units by integrating our two Coal 
businesses and by combining Niobium and Phosphates with 
our Nickel business. Across our Commercial unit - which now 
has two hubs, in Singapore and London, to be close to our 
major markets - we are also making significant changes to 
the way we manage our marketing, sales and logistics 
01 Dr Nkosazana Dlamini 
Zuma, Chairperson  
of the African Union 
Commission, with  
Mark Cutifani at the 
Anglo American 
corporate office in 
Johannesburg. 
02 Mark Cutifani  
in conversation  
with finance director 
Ren  M dori.
01 02
09
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Los Bronces - Chile
Collahuasi - Chile
Quellaveco project - Peru
Cerrej n - Colombia
Minas-Rio project - Brazil
Barro Alto - Brazil
Codemin - Brazil
Niobium mining and processing operations - Brazil
Boa Vista project - Brazil
Phosphates mine and fertiliser plant - Brazil
Moranbah North - Australia 
Grosvenor project - Australia
Dawson - Australia
Peace River Coal - Canada
Snap Lake - Canada
Jwaneng - Botswana 
Venetia - South Africa 
Sishen - South Africa 
Bathopele - South Africa 
Mogalakwena - South Africa 
Zibulo - South Africa 
Singapore Commercial office 
Beijing representative office
During his first week in the role, new chief executive, 
Mark Cutifani, met a hundred senior managers based  
in London and across the businesses. In the first eight 
months, he also met and spoke with a significant portion 
of the Group's top 400 managers, as well as several 
hundred employees, corporate office staff and mine 
operators. In 2013, he visited all business units' major 
operations and projects, including:
OPERATIONS VISITED
Collahuasi, Chile 
An operator working at the casting 
wheel, where molten copper is poured 
into moulds to form copper cathodes.
Snap Lake, Canada  
Exploration activities at the Snap Lake 
diamond mine, located in the 
Northwest T erritories.
Moranbah North, Australia  
Monitoring longwall underground 
mining operations on a  smart board'.
Zibulo, South Africa 
Mark Cutifani visited Thermal Coal's 
Zibulo colliery on Anglo American's 
Global Safety Day - 4 November 201 3.
Minas-Rio, Brazil  
Filtration tanks at the Port of A u, 
from where the first iron ore from 
Minas-Rio is scheduled to be 
exported by the end of 2014.
10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT We must apply our minds to how we can reallocate our 
resources to deliver better outcomes for stakeholders.  
Mining companies with communities need to take a far  
more active role in reshaping our future - to accept that  
our long term prosperity depends on the strength of our 
relationships with all of our stakeholders, to recognise that  
we have a responsibility to work collaboratively to realise  
our shared purpose. We need to put aside our sometimes 
short term competitive issues and concerns and assist each  
other in rebuilding our relationship with our most important 
stakeholders. It is only through greater cohesiveness and 
co-operation on our part, and the support of our stakeholders, 
that we will be able to provide sustainable financial returns  
to shareholders. We believe the focus on partnerships is 
consistent with delivering sustainable improvements to  
our shareholders.
OUTLOOK
The world economy should strengthen in 201 4 and 201 5  
as we continue to emerge from the challenges of the global 
financial crisis. China should continue to grow by around  
7% and the diminishing effects of fiscal tightening should 
support a firmer recovery in the US and beyond.
The turbulence in emerging economies in 201 3 has led to  
a more cautious assessment of their medium term growth 
prospects. Still, there are fundamental trends that indicate 
support for continuing growth, particularly with the scope for 
further significant catch-up in living standards. But we cannot 
be complacent about this growth given the current challenges 
in many economies. There is an imperative for domestic 
policymakers to implement much-needed reforms to unlock 
this potential.
While I expect headwinds to continue in 201 4 as we reset  
the business, the benefits of much-improved operational 
processes and performance will flow through largely in 201 5 
and 2016. In the immediate term, we have already delivered 
significant sustainable improvements, including early 
operational improvements, overhead reduction and reducing 
early-stage project expenditure.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I would like to thank our employees and contractors, as well  
as our many and varied stakeholders, for their dedication and 
support through a challenging year. I know I can count on  
you all as we continue to pursue our opportunities to deliver 
on our potential. T ogether, we are making a real difference. 
Finally, I wish to acknowledge the support and wise counsel  
of our chairman Sir John Parker and all members of the  
Board during this period of dynamic change, the pursuit  
of great opportunities and delivering on our potential.
Mark Cutifani 
Chief Executive
activities. These are already enhancing margins and are 
expected to deliver an additional $400 million a year of 
operating profit by 2016 (on an attributable basis).
We have identified approximately 85% of the incremental 
EBIT necessary to achieve the level of return we expect from 
the business and we are working on the areas where we  
see additional potential. Our capital allocation process, for 
example, has been rebuilt to enforce more stringent criteria 
and controls. This is expected to lead to a $400 million per 
annum cash flow improvement in 201 4 by recalibrating  
our project pipeline. In 201 3, we realised proceeds of almost  
$400 million from non-core asset sales and we expect to 
make further savings of $500 million through a reduction in 
overheads as well as supply chain savings of $100 million. 
Preserving our resource optionality for the future also 
remains a priority within our project development pipeline  
and capital allocation analyses. For example, following our 
recent stage-gate analysis of the Quellaveco copper project 
in Peru, we are re-scoping a larger scale project to enhance 
the economic case beyond our return criteria, while retaining 
government and community support.
On the environmental front, the implementation of our water 
programme, WETT, has once again had a material impact  
on improving our water efficiency across the Group. We are 
trending ahead of the target set (a 1 4% reduction against 
projected consumption in 2020) and delivered a calculated 
saving of more than $85 million in 201 3. In addition, around 
67% of our total water needs are met by recycled water. The 
implementation of 206 energy- and carbon-saving projects 
since 201 1, as part of our ECO
2
MAN programme, delivered 
savings of 4.3 million GJ of energy and 3.5 million tonnes of 
carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in 201 3. The resulting 
avoided energy cost is estimated at $95.5 million.
THE BIGGER PICTURE
Beyond our own Group, however, there is a bigger picture,  
of which we are all a part. We are among seven billion people 
who share this planet and in 10 years' time we are likely to  
be a billion more. Yet the mining industry is not supplying  
the resources in sufficient quantities to support the world's 
growth. Declining productivity, spiralling costs, community 
activism, government intervention, deepening pits and lower 
ore grades, infrastructure challenges and the industry's poor 
image are hampering our projects and preventing us from 
delivering on society's needs. 
For one thing, we will have to change the way we mine. We 
cannot carry on doing  business as usual' if we are to supply  
the world's needs in a responsible and sustainable way.  
Many of our business practices and operating models are 
years behind other industries'; we have much to learn  
from them. All mining companies will have to invest much 
more strategically in innovation simply to stay in business.
Furthermore, while many mining companies have made  
good progress in securing and retaining their social licences 
to operate, becoming pivotal partners in building long term 
social and physical infrastructure that creates a positive 
benefit for local and regional economies is becoming a 
mission-critical imperative. 
We have 
identified 
approximately 
85% of the 
incremental 
EBIT necessary 
to achieve the 
level of return 
we expect from 
the business.
11
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013