 This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 as inserted by the Directors' Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations ) and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company
at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Regulations require the independent auditors to report to the Company's shareholders on certain specified matters and this report
has therefore been split into separate sections for the unaudited and audited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board and comprises the Non-Executive Directors who are independent of
management and free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
During the year, membership of the Committee was as follows: David Hurst-Brown (Chairman of the Committee); Peter Bertram and
Clay Brendish. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Executive Directors and other senior managers to attend its meetings as appropriate. The Committee met eight
times during the year. Details of attendance at the meetings are shown in the table in the corporate governance report on page 25.
The principal function of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. It is
also responsible for setting the individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Chief Executive's direct
reports, and for monitoring and approving all share-based incentive arrangements. The Committee also determines the terms and
conditions of employment of the Executive Directors.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which are posted on the Company's website.
Advice and assistance
The Committee uses Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP as its professional advisers on executive remuneration and employee share
schemes. Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP provide no other services to the Company.
The Company Secretary (who is also the Secretary to the Committee) and the Group Human Resources Director provide the Committee
with information and assistance. The Chief Executive regularly attends Committee meetings to provide his own insights on business
objectives and the individual performance of his direct reports. However, no Director or senior manager is present when their own
remuneration is being specifically discussed.
Remuneration policy
Main principles
The Company's objective is to attract, retain and incentivise high-calibre executives who can drive the business forward and increase
shareholder value. To meet this objective, the Company follows three key principles:
> total rewards are designed to be competitive, with the remuneration package of each Executive Director and their direct reports
benchmarked regularly against the market;
> incentive-based rewards are seen as an important part of each Executive Director's total remuneration and are designed to drive and
reward exceptional performance; and
> long-term incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of the Executive Directors and senior managers with those of the
shareholders and to support the Company's business strategy.
Reward structure
The Executive Directors' total remuneration packages consist of:
> base salary;
> annual performance bonus;
> long-term incentive arrangements; and
> other benefits and allowances.
The Executive Directors make their own pension arrangements and the Group makes no payment in this respect.
Base salary
Base salary is reviewed annually and is set with reference to salary levels for similar roles in other comparable companies in the software
and computer services sector and the market generally. The factors for comparability include market sector, size and business complexity.
Management and governance
Remuneration report 29
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
REMUNERATION REPORT Annual performance bonus
As disclosed to shareholders in the 2007 Annual Report, the Company implemented a new Annual Bonus Plan (the Plan ) for Executive
Directors with effect from 1 May 2007. Under the terms of the Plan, the majority of the bonus (up to 75% of basic salary) is paid for
performance against a sliding scale of challenging Group Profit Before Tax (PBT) growth targets that are agreed by the Committee at the
beginning of the financial year. To ensure that true underlying PBT growth is measured, PBT is calculated before net capitalisation of R&D,
fair value write downs, amortisation of acquired business, gains or losses on business disposals, deduction of share-based payments, and
any increase/decrease in provisions related to legacy  non-operational property matters. This baseline  PBT may also be adjusted to
reflect any movements in average weighted share capital that may have occurred during the financial year.
Under the terms of the Plan an additional bonus (up to 25% of basic salary) may be paid on a discretionary basis with reference to
pre-agreed challenging personal objectives.
For the year ended 30 April 2008, the threshold level of baseline PBT growth was not achieved and no bonus was paid under the Plan.
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Company operates the following two long-term share-based incentive plans:
> the Performance Share Plan (PSP); and
> the Share Matching Plan (SMP).
Under the PSP an individual may receive an award of shares worth up to 100% of their salary per annum (although in exceptional
circumstances an award of up to 200% of their salary may be made). The awards are made as conditional awards of free shares.
The Executive Directors and a small number of the most senior executives are also able to participate in the SMP. As originally structured,
participants were allowed to lodge in the SMP shares worth up to 30% per annum of base salary, which were then matched on a two-for-
one (gross) basis.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders approved a change to the investment level under the SMP which was effected as the Committee was keen
to ensure that the most senior executives in the Company were fully aligned with the business at this critical stage in its development.
Pursuant to this change, whilst the effective average annual level of co-investment in the SMP remained unchanged at 30% per annum,
executives were provided with a one-off  opportunity over the three financial years from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2010 to invest a higher
amount annually (up to 90% of base salary) in the SMP. However, any investment is subject to the effective current overall aggregate limit
of 90% of salary over this three-year period. The original two-for-one gross matching ratio was retained. With effect from 1 May 2010 it is
currently intended that the SMP will revert to the normal 30% per annum investment limit.
Awards granted under the PSP and SMP are subject to three-year performance conditions. The awards made in 2005 and 2006 under both
PSP and SMP were subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance condition which measures the Company's TSR performance
against a comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Sector over a single three-
year performance period commencing on the first day of the financial year in which the award is made. In respect of the PSP and SMP
awards made in 2005 and 2006, a total of 25% of the award will vest if the Company is ranked at the median end of the performance
period, with 100% of the award vesting if the Company is at or above the upper quartile (with straight-line vesting in between).
The performance of the 2005 awards made under the PSP and SMP have been measured against the comparator group for the period ended
30 April 2008 and the result was below median. Therefore none of these awards will vest and the award will lapse on the third anniversary
of grant.
The PSP and SMP awards made in 2007 are subject to the following performance conditions:
> half of awards are subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) target. This will continue to be measured relative to the FTSE Software and
Computer Services Sector, with the same median to upper quartile vesting schedule as has applied to past awards; and
> half of awards are assessed by reference to Anite's Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance. For compound annual EPS growth of at least
RPI plus 4% per annum, 25% of awards subject to this part of the condition will vest, and for full vesting, compound EPS growth must
be at least RPI plus 12% per annum. Straight-line vesting applies between these points.
The EPS figure used for PSP and SMP measurement in 2007 was 5.2p being basic EPS before amortisation of acquired intangible assets,
gains and losses on the disposal of operations, the effect of net capitalisation/net amortisation on research and development costs, results
from discontinued/disposed operations and share-based payments.
However, before any awards vest, the Committee must have satisfied itself that the Company's underlying financial performance over the
performance period warrants the level of vesting determined by reference to the TSR performance condition. The extent to which the
performance condition is satisfied will be calculated by external consultants to ensure the appropriate level of third-party verification.
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Management and governance
Remuneration report 30
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The change in performance conditions for the 2007 awards compared to earlier awards was made by the Committee as it believes that,
whilst TSR is an important indicator of shareholder value creation, it is also advisable to focus the Company's senior executives on driving
Group profitability.
The Committee intends to apply broadly similar performance conditions to any PSP or SMP awards that may be made in the forthcoming year.
The Committee will continue to regularly review the operation of the Company's share incentive arrangements to ensure that they take due
account of market practice and the particular circumstances of the Company.
TSR performance graph
To provide a further alignment of interest with shareholders, the Executive Directors and others participating in the SMP are required to
retain in shares an amount equal in value to 50% of the after-tax gain made on the vesting of awards until they have built up a shareholding
equal to 100% of base salary.
The Executive Directors also participate in the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Share Incentive Plan.
The use of new issue or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under the share plans is subject to a 15% dilution limit in any ten-year
period. The current potential dilution is below this level. The Committee, aware of shareholders' views in connection with this matter,
continues to take active steps to control the dilutive effect of the Company's share incentives and is currently working under an informal
dilution limit of 13%. The actual dilution limit is currently 9.6%. However, following the lapse of the 2005 PSP and SMP awards, the dilution
limit will reduce to 8.6%.
Other benefits and allowances
Executive Directors are entitled to a car allowance, fuel, medical insurance, death-in-service and permanent health insurance, together with
reasonable business expenses.
Other share plans
Following the acquisition of Anite Finland Limited on 30 November 2006, the Company introduced a Management Incentive Plan (MIP) for
key employees. The MIP is not available to Executive Directors and all awards are settled using market purchase shares or a cash equivalent.
Further details of the MIP are contained in note 7 on page 59.
Service contracts
The Committee's policy is that all Executive Directors' service contracts will be rolling contracts of one year's duration. The service contracts
of Steve Rowley and Christopher Humphrey were each amended on 9 October 2007. The effect of the amendments in respect of each case
was to limit the obligations of the Company under clause 12.7 (termination of Executive Director's employment by the Company) to awards
under the Company's incentive schemes made to the Executive Director after 1 May 2007.
Other than in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, the provisions of service contracts will be honoured in full. Information regarding
the Executive Directors' service contracts is summarised in the table below.
Executive Director Date of contract Notice period
Christopher Humphrey S February RPPS QRmonths
Steve Rowley S November RPPS QRmonths
Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external non-executive directorships or offices without the approval of the Board.
No Executive Director received any fees in respect of any external non-executive directorship that they have held during the year.
Management and governance
Remuneration report 31
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
30 April
2008
30 April
2007
30 April
2006
30 April
2005
30 April
2004
30 April
2003
FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Index
Anite Group
This graph shows the value, by 30 April 2008, of  100 invested in Anite on 30 April 2003 compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Software
and Computer Services Index. The other points are the values at intervening financial year-ends. The table below sets out the rights the Company has to pay Executive Directors in lieu of notice together with the contractual
compensation payable if the Company terminates the contract (other than for cause) without notice.
Months' salary
Months' salary payable in
and contractual equivalent
benefits payable number
within seven days of monthly
Executive Director of termination
1
instalments
2
Christopher Humphrey VV
Steve Rowley YS
1 Contractual benefits include the annual performance bonus the Executive Director would have received had he continued to be employed from the date of termination until the
expiry of the notice period.
2 Payments cease, in effect, if the Executive Director commences employment with a new employer during the payment period.
Furthermore, for a period of six months following a change of control in the Company, Steve Rowley may terminate his employment on
28 days' notice at which point he will be entitled to the same payments as set out in the table above (which, as can be seen, shall not
exceed 12 months' remuneration).
The Company is aware of the provisions in the Combined Code which state that compensation payments should reflect a departing
Director's obligation to mitigate his loss. However, the Company has adopted the above described approach to determining the
compensation that is payable in the event that an Executive Director's service contract is terminated as it believes that it is in shareholders'
interests that the obligations of each party in such circumstances are transparent and agreed in advance to provide certainty.
If the Company terminates an Executive Director's employment without cause, the Remuneration Committee will be asked to exercise any
discretion it has under the terms of any share incentive plans in favour of the departing Executive Director. If the Remuneration Committee
determines not to follow this recommendation, the departing Executive Director shall be entitled to damages.
Non-Executive Directors
Clay Brendish has a three-year term of office with six months' notice of termination required by either party. Peter Bertram and David
Hurst-Brown each have a three-year term of office with no notice period or provision for compensation for loss of office.
The Board reviews the Independent Non-Executive Directors' fees annually, in the course of which it compares fees paid to Non-Executive
Directors of comparable companies. Fees recognise the additional responsibilities undertaken by the Non-Executive Directors in chairing the
Board and its Committees. In addition to their fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
The Chairman's fees are set by the Remuneration Committee. He is not present at any discussion of his own remuneration.
Audited information
Executive Directors' share options
Options Options First
held at Exercised held at Exercise Date of exercisable Expiry
1 May 2007 in year 30 April 2008 price grant date date
Christopher Humphrey
Approved Share Option Plan XV ,YUV - XV,YUV ST.Up QU/W/RPP S QU/ W/ RPPV QT/W/RP QS
Long-Term Incentive Plan UWQ ,RRV - U W Q,R RV ST.Up RS/Q/RPP T QU/ W/ RPPV QT/W/RP QS
QTY ,YQR - QT Y,YQ R U V.Up Q U /W /RPPS RS/Q/ RPPW RR/Q/RPQT
QXW ,UPP - QX W ,UPP TX.Up QV /X/RPPT Q V/X/RPPW QU/X/RPQT
Executive options - total YYU ,UYT - YYU,UYT
SAYE ST,RWX ST,RW X* - RSp QX/R/RPPS Q/ T/RPPX SP/Y/RPPX
Y,SWR - Y,SW R TVp RV/R/RPPT Q/ T/RPPY SP/Y/RPPY
Total options Q,PSY ,RTT ST,RW X Q ,PPT,YVV
Steve Rowley
Approved Share Option Plan UV ,VPS - U V,VPS USpQV/QR/RPPSQV/QR/RPPV QU/QR /RPQS
Long-Term Incentive Plan Q,QPX ,PRR - Q ,QP X,PRR USpQV/QR/RPPSQV/QR/RPPV QU/QR /RPQS
RUP ,PPP - RU P,PPP TX.Up QV /X/RPPT Q V/X/RPPW QU/X/RPQT
Executive options - total Q,TQT ,VRU - Q ,TQ T,VRU
SAYE QP ,RVW QP ,RVW
 
- TVp RV/R/RPPT Q/ T/RPPW SP/Y/RPPW
Total options Q,TRT ,XYR Q P,RVW Q ,TQ T,VRU
* The market price on 1 April 2008, the date of the exercise, was 40p. The total gain on exercise was  5,827. The option was exercisable from 1 April 2008 to 1 October 2008.
  The market price on 12 July 2007, the date of the exercise, was 80.5p. The total gain on exercise was  3,553. The option was exercisable from 1 April 2007 to 1 October 2007.
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Management and governance
Remuneration report 32
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 There were no lapses of options during the year.
The closing price of an ordinary share of Anite plc as at 30 April 2008 was 38.75p. The range of closing prices during the year ended
30 April 2008 was 85.50p (high) and 38.50p (low).
Directors' emoluments year ended 30 April 2008
Car Sub-total Benefits Total Total
Salary allowance salary Bonus in kind 2008 2007
        
Executive Directors
Steve Rowley SXP,PPP RT,PPP TPT,PPP - V,VPU TQP,VPU UWT,SWV
Christopher Humphrey RTV,PPP RT,PPP RWP,PPP - U,RTP RWU,RTP SVX,WUQ
VRV, PPP TX,PPP VWT ,PPP - Q Q,X TU VXU ,XTU YTS,QRW
Non-Executive Directors
Clay Brendish Q SU,PPP - Q SU,PPP -- QSU,PPP QRP,PPP
Peter Bertram TR,PPP - TR,PPP -- TR,PPP TT,PPP
David Hurst-Brown TR,PPP - TR,PPP -- TR,PPP ST,PPP
Directors at 30 April 2008 XTU,PPP TX,PPP XYS,PPP - QQ,XTU YPT,XTU Q, QTQ ,QRW
Executive Directors' conditional share awards
Conditional Conditional Conditional Conditional Conditional Share
awards at awards awards awards awards at price at Date of
1 May made vested lapsed 30 April conditional conditional Vesting
2007 in year in year in year 2008 award award date
Christopher Humphrey
Performance Share Plan RVU,SX U -- - RVU.SXU VUp Q T/PW/RP PU QT/PW /RPPX
Performance Share Plan SRT,UR Q -- - SRT,URQ WSp RX/PW/RP PV RX/PW /RPPY
Performance Share Plan - RYT,VQ P -- RYT,VQP XS.Up SQ/PW/RP PWSQ/PW /RPQP
Share Matching Plan SUS,XTV -- - SUS,XTV VUp Q Y/PX/RPPU QY/PX /RPPX
Share Matching Plan SRT,UR P -- - SRT,URP WSp PX/PX/RPPV PX/PX/RPPY
Share Matching Plan - Q ,PVT,UU S -- Q,PVT,UUS WP.Up Q Q/QP/RP PWQQ/QP /RPQP
Conditional share awards total Q,RV X,RW R Q ,SU Y,Q VS -- R,VRW,TSU
Steve Rowley
Performance Share Plan Q,PY R,SPX -- - Q,PYR,SPX VUp Q T/PW/RP PU QT/PW /RPPX
Performance Share Plan UPP,XYP -- - UPP,XYP WSp RX/PW/RP PV RX/PW /RPPY
Performance Share Plan - TU U,PYP -- TUU,PYP XS.Up SQ/PW/RP PWSQ/PW /RPQP
Share Matching Plan UTV,QU R -- - UTV,QUR VUp Q Y/PX/RPPU QY/PX /RPPX
Share Matching Plan UPP,XYP -- - UPP,XYP WSp PX/PX/RPPV PX/PX/RPPY
Share Matching Plan - Q ,VTT,TRW -- Q,VTT,TRW WP.Up Q Q/QP/RP PWQQ/QP /RPQP
Conditional share awards total R,VTP,RTP R,PYY,U Q W -- T,WSY,WUW
The conditional share awards set out above are granted without payment from a participant and are subject to the performance condition(s) described above.
Management and governance
Remuneration report 33
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors' interests in shares
The interests of the Directors who held office at 30 April 2008 in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as shown in the table
below. All interests are beneficial.
Number Number
of shares of shares
held as at held as at
30 April 1 May
2008 2007
Clay Brendish CFD,BBB W P,PPP
Steve Rowley JBK,GEK SSS,XSP
Christopher Humphrey HIC,JBF TSQ,Y XT
Peter Bertram EB,BBB SP,PPP
David Hurst-Brown FB,BBB TP,PPP
In the period from 1 May 2008 to 14 July 2008 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document) the only changes
in the interests of the Directors related to the monthly investments of the Executive Directors in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). During this
period, Steve Rowley and Christopher Humphrey each acquired 1,068 shares under the SIP.
This report has been approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by
David Hurst-Brown Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 July 2008
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Management and governance
Remuneration report 34
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008