 29
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009
Section C
Management and governance Remuneration report
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and associated regulations as inserted by the Directors'
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations ) and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the
Company at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Regulations require the independent auditors to report to the Company's shareholders on certain specified matters and this report has
therefore been split into separate sections for the unaudited and audited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board and comprises the Non-Executive Directors who are independent of management
and free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
During the year, membership of the Committee was as follows: David Hurst-Brown (Chairman of the Committee); Peter Bertram, Clay Brendish and
Nigel Clifford who was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 April 2009. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met eight times during the year. Details of attendance at the meetings are shown in the table in the corporate governance
report on page 25.
The principal function of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. It is also
responsible for setting the individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Chief Executive's direct reports,
and for monitoring and approving the operation of all share-based incentive arrangements. The Committee also determines the terms and
conditions of employment of the Executive Directors.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which are posted on the Company's website.
Advice and assistance
The Committee uses Hewitt New Bridge Street as its professional advisers on executive remuneration and employee share schemes. Hewitt
New Bridge Street provide no other services to the Company.
The Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director provide the Committee with information and assistance. The Chief Executive
also regularly attends Committee meetings to provide his own insights on business objectives and the individual performance of his direct
reports. However, no Executive Director or senior manager is present when their own remuneration is being specifically discussed.
Remuneration policy
Main principles
The Company's objective is to attract, retain and incentivise high-calibre executives who can drive the business forward and increase
shareholder value. To meet this objective, the Company follows three key principles:
> total rewards are designed to be competitive, with the remuneration package of each Executive Director and their direct reports
benchmarked regularly against the market;
> incentive-based rewards are seen as an important part of each Executive Director's total remuneration and are designed to drive and reward
exceptional performance; and
> long-term incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of the Executive Directors and senior managers with those of the
shareholders and to support the Company's business strategy.
The Committee also ensures that, when determining the Executive Directors' remuneration packages, due account is taken of pay and
employment elsewhere in the Group, liaising with the Group Human Resources Director where appropriate.
The Committee will ensure that the incentive structures for Executive Directors and senior managers will not raise environmental, social or
governance (ESG ) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to overall remuneration structures,
there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters, nor do these
remuneration structures encourage inappropriate operational risk taking.
Reward structure
The Executive Directors' total remuneration packages consist of:
> base salary;
> annual performance bonus;
> long-term incentive arrangements; and
> other benefits and allowances.
The Executive Directors make their own pension arrangements and the Group makes no payment in this respect. 30
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009 Remuneration report
Section C
Management and governance
Base salary
Base salary is reviewed annually and is set with reference to salary levels for similar roles in other comparable companies in the software and
computer services sector and the market generally. The factors for comparability include market sector, size and business complexity.
On 31 December 2008, Mr Humphrey was appointed as Chief Executive. To reflect his new responsibilities, the Committee reviewed
Mr Humphrey's salary and agreed that it would be right to increase his base salary to  310,000.
Annual performance bonus
The Company operates an Annual Bonus Plan (the Plan ) for Executive Directors. Under the terms of the Plan, a bonus of up to 100% of salary
can be earned. For the year under review, bonuses were paid by reference to performance against (i) a sliding scale of challenging Group profit
growth targets (calculated excluding fair value write downs, amortisation of acquired business, gains or losses on business disposals and
deduction of share-based payments) (ii) pre-agreed stretching personal objectives and (iii) delivery of key strategic business objectives.
For the financial year 2009/10 the Plan will place greater emphasis on the achievement of specific quantifiable objectives, together with
challenging financial targets all of which are set with the primary objective of enhancing returns to shareholders. This change in policy is
regarded as appropriate due to the number of recent senior management appointments coupled with the Committee's view that realistic and
highly targeted incentivisation is important at a time of major change in a number of the business units.
In reviewing the performance of the whole year, the Committee has made an annual bonus payment of  238,631 which reflects Mr Humphrey's
split of executive roles and increased responsibility during the year and the successful over performance of the Company against the targets
that were agreed.
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Company operates the following two long-term share-based incentive plans:
> the Performance Share Plan (PSP); and
> the Share Matching Plan (SMP).
Under the PSP an individual may receive an award of shares worth up to 100% of their salary per annum (although in exceptional
circumstances an award of up to 200% of their salary may be made). The awards that have been granted to date have been made as
conditional awards of free shares.
The Executive Directors and a small number of the most senior executives are also able to participate in the SMP. As originally structured,
participants were allowed to lodge in the SMP shares worth up to 30% per annum of base salary, which were then matched on a two-for-one
(gross) basis.
In 2007, shareholders approved a change to the investment level under the SMP. Pursuant to this change, whilst the effective average annual
level of co-investment in the SMP remained unchanged at 30% per annum, executives were provided with a one-off  opportunity over the
three financial years from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2010 to invest a higher amount annually (up to 90% of base salary) in the SMP. However, any
investment is subject to the effective current overall aggregate limit of 90% of salary over this three-year period. The original two-for-one gross
matching ratio was retained. With effect from 1 May 2010 it is currently intended that the SMP will revert to the normal 30% per annum
investment limit.
Awards granted under the PSP and SMP are subject to three-year performance conditions. The awards made during 2006 under both PSP and
SMP were subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance condition which measures the Company's TSR performance against a
comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Sector over a single three-year
performance period commencing on the first day of the financial year in which the award is made.
In respect of the PSP and SMP awards made in 2006, a total of 25% of the award was available to vest if the Company was ranked at the
median at the end of the performance period, with 100% of the award vesting if the Company is at or above the upper quartile (with straight-
line vesting in between). The performance of the 2006 awards made under the PSP and SMP have been measured against the comparator
group for the period ended 30 April 2009 and the result was below median. Therefore, none of these awards will vest and the award will lapse
on the third anniversary of grant.
The PSP and SMP awards made in 2007 and 2008 are subject to the following performance conditions:
> half of awards are subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) target. This will continue to be measured relative to the FTSE Software and
Computer Services Sector, with the same median to upper quartile vesting schedule as has applied to past awards; and
> half of awards are assessed by reference to Anite's Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance. For compound annual EPS growth of at least RPI
plus 4% per annum, 25% of awards subject to this part of the condition will vest, and for full vesting, compound annual EPS growth must be
at least RPI plus 12% per annum. Straight-line vesting applies between these points.
The EPS figure used for PSP and SMP measurement in 2007 was 5.2p being basic EPS before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, gains
and losses on the disposal of operations, the effect of net capitalisation/net amortisation on research and development costs, results from
discontinued/disposed operations and share-based payments. 31
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009
Section C
Management and governance
The EPS figure for the measurement for PSP awards made in 2008 was 3.3p being profit from continuing businesses before disposed businesses,
other gains and losses, share-based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs.
However, before any awards vest, the Committee must have satisfied itself that the Company's underlying financial performance over the
performance period warrants the level of vesting determined by reference to the TSR performance condition. The extent to which the
performance condition is satisfied will be calculated by external consultants to ensure the appropriate level of third-party verification.
The change in performance conditions for the 2007 awards onwards compared to earlier awards was made by the Committee as it believes
that, whilst TSR is an important indicator of shareholder value creation, it is also advisable to focus the Company's senior executives on driving
Group profitability.
The Committee intends to apply broadly similar performance conditions to any PSP or SMP awards that may be made in the forthcoming year.
The Committee will continue to regularly review the operation of the Company's share incentive arrangements to ensure that they take due
account of market practice and the particular circumstances of the Company.
TSR performance graph
To provide a further alignment of interest with shareholders, the Executive Directors and others participating in the SMP are required to retain
in shares an amount equal in value to 50% of the after-tax gain made on the vesting of awards until they have built up a shareholding equal
to 100% of base salary.
The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Company's Sharesave Plan 2009 and the Share Incentive Plan which are available
to all employees.
The use of new issue or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under the share plans is subject to a 15% dilution limit in any ten-year period.
The current potential dilution is below this level. The Committee, aware of shareholders' views in connection with this matter, continues to take
active steps to control the dilutive effect of the Company's share incentives and is currently working under an informal dilution limit of 10%.
The actual dilution is currently 8.7%.
Other benefits and allowances
Executive Directors are entitled to a car allowance, fuel, medical insurance, death-in-service and permanent health insurance, together with
reasonable business expenses.
Other share plans
In 2007, the Company introduced a Management Incentive Plan (MIP) for key employees. The MIP is not available to Executive Directors and all
awards are settled using market purchase shares or a cash equivalent. Further details of the MIP are contained in note 8 on page 57.
Service contracts
The Committee's policy is that all Executive Directors' service contracts will be rolling contracts of one year's duration. Other than in the case of
dismissal for gross misconduct, the provisions of Mr Humphrey's service contract will be honoured in full. Information regarding the Executive
Directors' service contracts who served during the year is summarised in the table below.
Executive Director Date of contract Notice period
Christopher Humphrey Q February PNNQ OP months
Steve Rowley Q November PNNQ OP months
200
150
100
50
0
30 April
2009
30 April
2008
30 April
2007
30 April
2006
30 April
2005
30 April
2004
FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Index
Anite Group
This graph shows the value, by 30 April 2009, of  100 invested in Anite on 30 April 2004 compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Software
and Computer Services Index. The other points are the values at intervening financial year-ends. 32
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009 Remuneration report
Section C
Management and governance
Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external Non-Executive Directorships or offices without the approval of the Board. No Executive
Director received any fees in respect of any external Non-Executive Directorship that they have held during the year.
The table below sets out the rights the Company has to pay Executive Directors in lieu of notice together with the contractual compensation
payable if the Company terminates the contract (other than for cause) without notice.
Months' salary
Months' salary payable in
and contractual equivalent
benefits payable number
within seven days of monthly
Executive Director of termination
1
instalments
2
Christopher Humphrey TT
Steve Rowley
Q
WQ
1 Contractual benefits include the annual performance bonus the Executive Director would have received had he continued to be employed from the date of termination until
the expiry of the notice period.
2 Payments cease, in effect, if the Executive Director commences employment with a new employer during the payment period.
3 Steve Rowley resigned as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2008.
The Company is aware of the provisions in the Combined Code which state that compensation payments should reflect a departing Director's
obligation to mitigate his loss. However, the Company has adopted the above described approach to determining the compensation that
is payable in the event that an Executive Director's service contract is terminated as it believes that it is in shareholders' interests that the
maximum obligations of each party in such circumstances are transparent and agreed in advance to provide certainty.
If the Company terminates Mr Humphrey's employment without cause, the Remuneration Committee will be asked to exercise any discretion it
has under the terms of any share incentive plans in his favour. If the Remuneration Committee determines not to follow this recommendation,
he shall be entitled to damages.
Non-Executive Directors
Clay Brendish has a three-year term of office with six months' notice of termination required by either party. Peter Bertram, David Hurst-Brown
and Nigel Clifford each have a three-year term of office with no notice period or provision for compensation for loss of office.
Further details of the Non-Executive Directors' terms of employment can be found on page 24.
The Board reviews the independent Non-Executive Directors' fees annually, in the course of which it compares fees paid to Non-Executive
Directors of comparable companies. Fees recognise the additional responsibilities undertaken by the Non-Executive Directors in chairing the
Board and its Committees. In addition to their fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
The Chairman's fees are set by the Remuneration Committee. He is not present at any discussion of his own remuneration.
Audited information
Executive Directors' share options
Options
held at
Options Options 30 April 2009 First
held at lapsed or date of Exercise Date of exercisable Expiry
1 May 2008 in year cessation price grant date date
Christopher Humphrey
Approved Share Option Plan VT,W ST - VT,W ST QR.Sp OS /N U/PNNQ OS/NU/PN NT O R/NU/PNOQ
Long-Term Incentive Plan SU O, PPT - SU O,P PT QR.Sp OS/ NU/PNNQOS/NU/PNNTOR/NU/PNOQ
O RW, W O P - O RW,W O P ST.Sp PQ/NO/PNNRPQ/NO/PNNU PP/NO/PNOR
O VU, SN N - O VU,SN N RV.Sp OT/ NV/PNNROT/NV/PNNU OS/NV/PNOR
Executive options - total W W S,SW R - W W S,SW R
SAYE W, QU P W ,QU P - RT.Np PT/NP/PNNR NO/NR/PNNW QN/NW/PNNW
Total options O, N NR ,W TT W ,QU P W W S,SW R
Steve Rowley
Approved Share Option Plan ST,TN Q - ST,TN Q SQ.Np OT/ OP/PNNQ OT/OP/PNNTOS/OP/PNOQ
Long-Term Incentive Plan O, O NV ,N PP - O ,O N V,N PP SQ.Np OT/ OP/PNNQ OT/OP/PNNTOS/ OP /PNO Q
PSN, N N N - PSN,N N N RV.Sp OT/ NV/PNNROT/NV/PNNU OS/NV/PNOR
Executive options - total O, ROR ,TPS - O ,RO R,TPS
SAYE O N, PTU O N ,PTU - RT.Np PT/NP/PNNR NO/NR/PNNU QN/NW/PNNU
Total options O, RPR,VWP O N ,PTU O ,RO R,TPS 33
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009
Section C
Management and governance
Steve Rowley resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December 2008. It was agreed that he could exercise the options referred to above up
until 30 June 2009 upon which date any unexercised options shall lapse.
There were no exercises of options during the year. The closing price of an ordinary share of Anite plc as at 30 April 2009 was 28.75p. The range
of closing prices during the year ended 30 April 2009 was 52.75p (high) and 23.25p (low).
Directors' emoluments year ended 30 April 2009
Car Subtotal Benefits Total Total
Salary allowance salary Compensation Bonus in kind 2009 2008
          
Executive Directors
Steve Rowley
O
PVP,SNN O T,NNN PWV ,SNN ON N ,NN N - T,TN S RNS,ONS RON,TNS
Christopher Humphrey PU U,PN W PR,N NN QNO ,PNW PQV,TQO OQ,SUO SSQ,ROO PUS,PRN
SSW, U NW RN, NNN SWW ,U NW ON N ,NN N PQV,TQO PN ,O UT WSV,SOT TVS,VRS
Non-Executive Directors
Clay Brendish O QS,N N N - O QS,N NN -- - OQS,NNN OQS,NNN
Peter Bertram RP,N N N - RP,N NN -- - RP,N NN RP,NNN
David Hurst-Brown RP,N N N - RP,N NN -- - RP,N NN RP,NNN
Nigel Clifford
P
Q,NVQ - Q,NV Q -- - Q,NVQ -
UVO, U WP RN, NNN VPO ,U WP ON N ,NN N PQV,TQO PN ,O UT O ,OVN,SWW WNR,VRS
1 Steve Rowley resigned as a Director and ceased his employment with the Company on 31 December 2008.
2 Nigel Clifford was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 April 2009.
Executive Directors' conditional share awards
Conditional
awards at
Conditional Conditional Conditional Conditional 30 April Share
Awards at awards awards awards 2009 price at Date of
1 May made vested lapsed or date of conditional conditional Vesting
2008 in year in year in year cessation award award date
Christopher Humphrey
Performance Share Plan PTS,QVS -- PTS,QVS - TS.Np OR/ NU /PNN S O R/N U /PNN V
Performance Share Plan QPR,SPO --- QPR,SPO UQ.Np PV/NU /PNN T PV/N U /PNN W
Performance Share Plan PW R,TO N --- PWR ,TON VQ.Sp QO/ NU /PNN U QO /N U /PNO N
Performance Share Plan - TVQ,U VR -- TVQ,UVR QU.Np OV /N V/PN N V OV /N V/PNO O
Performance Share Plan - O ,O RV,N N N -- O,ORV,NNN PU.Np PQ/O P/PN N V PQ/O P/PNO O
Share Matching Plan QSQ,VRT -- QSQ,VRT - TS.Np OW/ NV /PNN S O W /N V/PNN V
Share Matching Plan QPR,SPN --- QPR,SPN UQ.Np NV/ NV /PNN T N V/N V/PNN W
Share Matching Plan O ,NT R,SSQ --- O,NTR ,SSQ UN.Sp OO/ ON /PNN U O O/ ON /PNO N
Conditional Share awards Total P,TPU,R QS O ,VQO ,U VR - TOW,PQO Q,VQW ,WVV
Steve Rowley
Performance Share Plan O ,N W P,QN V - - O ,NWP,QNV - TS.Np OR/NU/ PNNSOR /N U/PNNV
Performance Share Plan SN N,V W N - - SNN,VWN - UQ.Np PV/NU/ PNNTPV/N U/PNNW
Performance Share Plan RSS,N W N - - - RSS,NWN VQ.Sp QO/NU/ PNNUQO /N U/PNON
Performance Share Plan - O ,N SR,N SR - - O ,NSR ,NSR QU.Np OV/NV/ PNNVOV /N V/PNOO
Share Matching Plan SRT,O SP - - SRT,OSP - TS.N p OW/NV/ PNNSOW/ NV/PNNV
Share Matching Plan SN N,V W N - - SNN,VWN - UQ.N p NV/NV/ PNNTNV/ NV/PNNW
Share Matching Plan O ,TRR,RPU - - - O,TRR,RPU UN.S p OO/ON/ PNNUOO/ ON/PNON
Conditional share awards total R,U QW,U SU O,N SR,N SR - P,TRN,PRN Q,OSQ,SUO
Steve Rowley resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December 2008 and it was agreed that (i) his Performance Share Plan and Share
Matching Plan awards granted in 2006 should lapse on 31 December 2008 and (ii) his Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan awards
granted in 2007 and 2008 should not lapse but should be capable of vesting on the agreed vesting date, subject to the extent to which the
performance conditions are satisfied at that time and a pro rata reduction on the size of the original award up to the date of resignation.
The conditional share awards set out above are granted without payment from a participant and are subject to the performance condition(s)
described above. 34
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009 Remuneration report
Section C
Management and governance
Directors' interests in shares
The interests of the Directors who held office at 30 April 2009 in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as shown in the table below.
All interests are beneficial.
Number
of shares
Number held as at
of shares 1 May
held as at 2008
30 April or at date of
2009
1
appointment
Clay Brendish BCF,CCC ORP,NNN
Christopher Humphrey FAE,EDG TUO,VNR
Peter Bertram CF,FFF QN,N NN
David Hurst-Brown DE,EEE RN,N NN
Nigel Clifford
P
- -
1 The change in holdings as shown above as at 30 April 2009 arises as a consequence of the Share Consolidation that was completed on 31 January 2009.
2 Nigel Clifford was appointed a Director on 1 April 2009.
In the period from 1 May 2009 to 30 June 2009 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document) the only changes in
the interests of the Directors related to the monthly investments of the Executive Directors in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). During this period,
Christopher Humphrey acquired 694 ordinary shares under the SIP.
This report has been approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by
David Hurst-Brown
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
30 June 2009