 Anite plc
Annual report and accounts 2013 46
Business overview
Governance
Financial statements
Remuneration Committee report
The attached report sets out the policies adopted and 
implemented by the Remuneration Committee over 
the last 12 months and those we intend applying going 
forward. We have set it out in a new format that more 
closely matches the proposed BIS regulations that we 
will be required to follow from next year.
The vote that we held at last year's AGM on remuneration was passed  
by a comfortable majority. However we recognise that a minority of 
shareholders who voted did not support last year's report. Broadly their 
concerns fell into three categories. The principal issue was the scale of 
salary increases awarded last year to the Executive Directors. In addition 
some shareholders have concerns that we use both a share matching 
plan (the SMP ) and a performance share plan (the PSP ) to motivate 
long-term performance. Finally, a few shareholders continue to raise 
questions about the severance terms of the Chief Executive's contract. 
We set out in considerable detail in last year's report the reasons behind 
the above average salary increases granted that year to the Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director. Before making these awards 
we had consulted with our largest shareholders who were supportive of 
the proposals and the reasons behind them. We were thus disappointed 
that a minority of other investors decided to oppose the plans, in a 
number of cases simply because of the magnitude involved and 
irrespective of the reasoning. This year's review of salary levels for the 
Executive Directors has resulted in awards of 3.0%. This is below the 
level awarded on average across the Group.
Certain investors have raised a concern over the fact that the PSP and the 
SMP (which have been approved by shareholders in previous AGMs) have 
the same performance conditions and they see it that individuals are 
thus being awarded twice for the same performance. We do not see it 
that way. To support the Company's key strategic objectives the 
Committee believes it is important that over the long-term executives 
are incentivised to, and rewarded for, delivering shareholder return and 
improved financial performance of the Wireless division. To further 
increase alignment with shareholders the Committee believes it is 
necessary that a portion of the long-term incentive potential should be 
subject to a significant personal investment by the Executive Director. 
Accordingly, the long-term incentive arrangement has been designed 
with two elements. Directors are granted awards under the PSP as part 
of their long-term incentive programme. The SMP then allows them to 
increase their risk/opportunity under that same incentive programme 
through committing their own cash in terms of personal investment. This 
is deliberately designed to encourage equity participation by Directors 
and to align their interests with those  of shareholders.
The severance terms of the Chief Executive's contract are historical, and 
reflect accepted practice as it was when he was recruited ten years ago. 
We have said for some years that they are not terms that we would use 
for new recruits and evidenced this with the contract awarded to the 
Group Finance Director when he was recruited in 2009. To change  
the Chief Executive's contract however would require us to pay 
compensation now for him giving up protections which may in practice 
never actually be used. We do not consider this in the best interests of 
shareholders and accordingly intend to maintain the status quo.
Over the next 12 months the Committee will be considering the final 
proposals under the BIS regulations and any changes that need to be 
made to remuneration policy and reporting. These changes will be 
considered under the leadership of the newly appointed Committee 
Chairman who will have my full support through the transition period.
David Hurst-Brown
Remuneration Committee Chairman 