 46
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors' Remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report
As the new Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee I am pleased to introduce our 
Remuneration Committee Report for the  
year ended 30 April 2014.
Review of remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2014
This has been a demanding but productive year for the 
Remuneration Committee (the Committee ). We remain focused on 
ensuring that our policies and procedures are right for our business 
and are capable of driving and incentivising our executives to create 
long-term value for our shareholders. Profits for the year fell short 
of the threshold profit target, wholly in the Handset Testing 
business which was affected by consolidation in the market and 
also by the tail-off in 2G/3G revenue, whereas both Network 
Testing and Travel performed well and in line with expectations.
The fall in profits has therefore resulted in no bonus payouts for the 
Executive Directors this year. Despite this, good progress was made 
with the strategic and organisational development of the Group. 
The long-term incentive awards granted in 2011 will vest at 66.4% 
of the amount granted with 100% of profit and 32.8% of Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR ) targets achieved.
Future remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee continually reviews the senior 
executive remuneration policy to ensure that it promotes the 
attraction, motivation and retention of the high quality executives 
who are key to delivering sustainable earnings growth and 
shareholder return in the future. 
Against the backdrop of challenging market conditions, febrile 
environment around executive pay and taking into account recent 
feedback from our shareholders, the Committee has recently 
completed a thorough review of the Company's current 
remuneration framework with respect to Executive Directors  
and other senior executives. 
The Committee concluded following the review to simplify our 
existing remuneration structure and to review in particular the 
existing short- and long-term incentive arrangements in place such 
that they continue to support the business strategy of Anite as it 
embarks on its next stage of development and that the interests  
of our Executive Directors continue to be aligned with shareholder 
returns over the longer term.
Specifically, the Committee concluded:
 - Basic salaries should increase by 3% in line with the average 
increases across the Group.
 - To introduce a deferral of any bonus paid over 100% of salary 
into Company shares for a three-year period for any new 
Executive Directors. The structure and quantum of the annual 
bonus continues to be appropriate and aligned to shareholders' 
interests for our existing Executive Directors and will remain 
as is.
 - To introduce a new long-term incentive policy for Executive 
Directors with the adoption of the new Anite plc 2014 Long-
Term Incentive Plan (2014 LTIP ). This new plan replaces the 
current long-term incentive structure of a matching share award 
and annual conditional share award with one annual share award 
of comparable value under the 2014 LTIP. No further 
contributions will be made by Executive Directors to the existing 
Performance Share Plan (PSP ) and Share Matching Plan (SMP ) 
and these plans will not be renewed when they expire in 2015. 
The proposal is for the Committee to operate only the new 2014 
LTIP post the 2014 AGM.
 - That the new LTIP will measure adjusted EPS growth and 
relative total shareholder returns against the FTSE techMARK  
to ensure that there is strong alignment between the senior 
executive team and shareholders and which will help drive a 
sustained performance that will lead to the creation of value  
for shareholders.
 - To introduce greater shareholding requirements such that the 
Executive Directors must now build up and retain a shareholding 
of 200% of salary. This will promote greater alignment of 
Executive Directors with shareholders.
 - That clawback provisions should apply to both elements of 
performance related pay. 47
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
The Committee is satisfied that this remuneration policy will continue 
to ensure that we can recruit and retain a highly talented senior 
management team to maximise shareholder value and deliver strong 
and sustainable growth.
The new Long-Term Incentive Plan (2014 LTIP) 
Two of our current long-term incentive plans - the PSP and the SMP 
- are set to expire in April 2015. In order to coincide with the new 
three year remuneration policy being approved at the forthcoming 
AGM by shareholders and a desire by the Committee to introduce a 
simplified remuneration policy and structure which support the 
business strategy in line with market norms, it is proposed to put  
in place a new long-term incentive plan, the new 2014 LTIP, at the 
2014 AGM. 
Further details of the 2014 LTIP are set out in the Notice of AGM.
The new disclosure regime
Last year, we took some steps towards disclosing the additional 
information to improve the transparency of our remuneration report. 
This year, we have embraced the new disclosure requirements under 
the UK Government's reforms on Directors' pay and trust that our 
report demonstrates transparency and clarity in our disclosures.  
Our report has three sections as follows:
 - this Annual Statement which summarises and explains the major 
decisions and changes in respect of Directors' remuneration;
 - a Directors' Remuneration Policy (pages 48 to 58) setting out 
the forward looking remuneration policy for the Company's 
Directors which will operate from the date of the AGM; and 
 - an Annual Report on Remuneration (pages 59 to 65) providing 
details of the remuneration earned by the Company's Directors in 
relation to the year ended 30 April 2014 (FY2014 ) and of how the 
policy will be operated for year ending 30 April 2015 (FY2015 ).
At the forthcoming AGM on 12 September 2014, the Directors' 
Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote and 
the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote. In future years, the Directors' Remuneration Policy 
will be subject to a binding vote every three years (sooner if changes 
are made to the policy) and the Annual Report on Remuneration will 
be subject to an annual advisory vote.
Alignment and dialogue with shareholders
We are mindful of our shareholders' concerns and are keen to ensure 
a demonstrable link between reward and value creation. In addition 
to the matters set out in this report, alignment with shareholder 
interest is further demonstrated by the operation of stronger share 
ownership guidelines and the clawback provisions applying to both 
the annual bonus and long-term share awards. 
We regularly consult with major shareholders and the investor 
protection committees over forthcoming changes to the 
remuneration structure for Executive Directors and this year wrote 
to them to explain the proposals for the new share plans and the 
future policy generally.
We were pleased with the support received from shareholders last 
year for our Remuneration report which achieved 97.97% approval. 
We hope that we will continue to receive your support at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Patrick De Smedt
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 48
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Directors' Remuneration Policy
This section of the Remuneration report contains details of the 
Company's Directors' Remuneration Policy that will govern the 
Company's future remuneration payments. The policy will apply for 
three years. The policy described in this part is subject to approval  
by shareholders at the Company's AGM on 12 September 2014 and 
will apply from that date. The policy part will be displayed on the 
Company's website in the Investor Relations section immediately 
after the 2014 AGM.
The Committee has established the policy on the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and the Chairman. The Board has established a 
policy on the remuneration of the other Non-Executive Directors. 
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
The Company's objective is to attract, retain and incentivise 
high-calibre executives who can drive the business forward and 
increase shareholder value. To meet this objective, the Company 
follows three key principles:
 - total rewards are designed to be competitive, with the 
remuneration package of each Executive Director and his direct 
reports benchmarked regularly against companies of a similar size 
and in similar markets;
 - incentive-based rewards are seen as an important part of each 
Executive Director's remuneration package as they are designed 
to drive and reward exceptional performance; and
 - long-term incentive arrangements are designed to align the 
interests of the Executive Directors and senior managers with 
those of the shareholders and to support the Company's  
business strategy.
The Committee also ensures that, when determining the Executive 
Directors' remuneration packages, due account is taken of pay and 
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. In this regard, the 
Committee ensures, via the Chief Executive's and Group Finance 
Director's attendance at certain meetings, that it is kept fully 
informed of all relevant Group-wide remuneration related issues.
The Committee ensures that remuneration structures neither 
encourage nor reward inappropriate operational risk-taking and are 
applied with due account taken of the Company's risk policies and 
systems. In addition, the Committee ensures that the incentive 
structures for Executive Directors and senior managers will not raise 
environmental, social or governance (ESG ) risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to 
overall remuneration structures, there is no restriction on the 
Committee that prevents it from taking into account ESG matters. 49
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Future policy table - Executive Directors
Objective and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
Fixed remuneration
Base salary 
Core element of remuneration set at a 
level commensurate with contribution 
to the Company and appropriately 
based on skill, experience and 
performance achieved. Base salary 
is set at a level to attract and retain 
Executive Directors and recognises 
the status and responsibility required 
to deliver the business strategy.
Policy position 
Market median.
An Executive Director's base salary 
is considered by the Committee on 
their appointment and then reviewed 
annually with changes taking effect 
from 1 May, or when an individual 
changes position or responsibility.
When making a determination as 
to the appropriate salary level, 
the Committee considers firstly 
remuneration practices within 
the Group as a whole and, where 
considered relevant, conducts 
objective research on companies 
within the Company's peers - based 
on market sector, size and business 
complexity of companies within the 
FTSE 250, FTSE techMARK and FTSE 
Small Cap.
It should be noted that, as is 
currently the case, the results of the 
benchmarking will only be one of 
many factors taken into account by 
the Committee. Other factors include: 
- the individual performance and 
experience of the Executive 
Director; 
- pay and conditions for employees 
across the Group; 
- the general performance of the 
Company; and
- the economic environment.
No recovery provisions apply to  
base salary.
The annual salaries for the Executive 
Directors for FY2014 are set out in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration 
on page 59.
The previous column sets out the 
factors that will be taken into 
consideration in determining  
the salary. 
Any increase in salary for the 
Executive Directors will take into 
account the salary levels in the 
comparator group.
In the normal course of events, 
increases in the Executive Directors' 
salaries will be in line with the 
average increase for employees.
Individuals who are recruited or 
promoted to the Board may, on 
occasion, have their salaries set 
below the targeted policy level until 
they become established in their role. 
In such cases, subsequent increases 
in salary may be higher than the 
average increases for employees until 
the target positioning is achieved.
None.
Benefits 
The Company provides a market 
competitive benefits package.
Policy position 
In line with market practice.
Executive Directors are entitled to a 
benefit package which includes: 
- medical insurance; 
- death in service life assurance; 
- permanent health insurance; 
- car fuel expenses;
- reasonable business expenses; 
and
- housing allowance where 
necessary to perform their duties.
Executives are eligible to participate 
in the Company's all-employee 
share schemes, Sharesave and the 
Share Incentive Plan, on the same 
terms as UK colleagues. Sharesave 
is a HMRC approved savings related 
share option scheme. The Share 
Incentive Plan is a HMRC approved 
plan comprising free shares and 
partnership shares.
Benefits are reviewed annually 
to ensure they remain market 
competitive.
The payments are not included in 
salary for the purposes of calculating 
any benefit or level of participation in 
incentive arrangements.
No recovery provisions apply  
to benefits.
Benefit values vary year on year 
depending on premiums and the 
maximum value is the cost of the 
provision of these benefits.
None. 50
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued
Objective and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
Pension 
The Company provides a level of 
pension contribution in order to be 
market competitive.
Policy position 
Market median. 
The Company's policy is to provide 
Executive Directors with the Anite 
Group Flexible Retirement Plan 
(GFRP ) or a salary supplement in 
lieu of pension contributions.
Mr Humphrey makes his own pension 
arrangements and the Company 
makes no payment in this respect.
Mr Amos belongs to the GFRP 
whereby the Company contributes 
10% of base salary on the basis that 
he contributes a minimum of 5%.
The payments are not included in 
salary for the purposes of calculating 
any benefit or level of participation  
in incentive arrangements.
No recovery provisions apply  
to pension.
The maximum contribution is 10% of 
base salary.
None.
Performance-based variable remuneration
Annual bonus plan 
Incentivises the achievement of 
annual financial and strategic 
objectives that are key to the 
success of the Company.
Policy position  
Market median. 
The performance period is one 
financial year and awards may be 
made annually. 
The performance conditions for the 
annual bonus and the weighting 
between them are set at the 
beginning of the financial year.
The bonus is paid in cash except for 
new Executive Directors appointed 
after the 2014 AGM, where bonus 
earned in excess of 100% of base 
salary will be deferred into Anite 
plc shares to be held for three years 
under the new Deferred Annual 
Bonus Plan.
Bonus payments are not pensionable. 
Clawback conditions apply to  
bonus payments.
The maximum annual bonus  
level is 125% of base salary for  
Executive Directors.
Bonus will begin to pay out for 
threshold  performance.
At target  adjusted profit before 
tax performance, 50% of the annual 
salary can be earned under the profit 
before tax element.
At overperformance  adjusted profit 
before tax performance, 105% of the 
annual salary can be earned under 
the profit before tax element.
Up to a further 20% of salary can  
be earned for achievement of 
personal objectives which may be 
subject to a minimum threshold  
adjusted profit before tax 
performance. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion in relation 
to the payment of any bonus for 
personal objectives taking into 
account the overall financial and 
operating performance of the 
Company during that financial year.
Performance targets will be set by 
the Committee annually based on 
a range of financial and strategic 
measures, including but not  
limited to:
- Adjusted profit before tax 
growth targets (maximum 105% 
of salary).
- Agreed personal objectives 
(maximum 20% salary).
While the exact targets cannot  
be disclosed for reasons of 
commercial sensitivity, they are  
tied to the strategic objectives  
and key performance indicators  
of the Group. The Committee 
believes these targets are 
appropriately stretching and if 
delivered will represent value 
creation for shareholders.
As well as determining the 
measures and targets, the 
Committee will also determine the 
weighting of the various measures 
to ensure that they support the 
business strategy and objectives 
for the relevant year.
The Committee has the discretion 
to adjust weightings or targets for 
any exceptional events that may 
occur during the year.
Further details on the measures  
for FY2015 are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration  
on page 53. 51
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Objective and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 
Deferral of annual bonus provides 
a link of the bonus deferred to the 
share price over the deferral period 
and amounts deferred in shares 
are also forfeitable on a Director's 
voluntary cessation of employment 
which provides an effective lock-in.
Policy position  
In line with market practice.
The Committee can determine that 
part of the bonus earned under the 
Annual Bonus Plan is provided as 
an award of shares (in the form of 
nil cost options) under the Deferred 
Annual Bonus Plan.
The main terms of these awards are:
- minimum deferral period of three 
years; and
- the participants' continued 
employment at the end of the 
deferral period.
The Committee may award dividend 
equivalents on those shares to plan 
participants to the extent that  
they vest.
The annual bonus will continue to be 
paid in cash for the current Executive 
Directors - Christopher Humphrey and 
Richard Amos.
For new Executive Directors, any 
bonus paid over 100% of salary will 
be deferred into Company shares for 
a three year period. 
None.
Anite Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP ) 
The long-term incentive 
arrangements are structured so as 
to encourage and reward delivery of 
the Company's longer-term strategic 
objectives, provide reward for 
delivery of superior performance and 
to align the interests of the Executive 
Directors with the interests of 
shareholders.
Policy position 
Median to upper quartile.
Annual awards of performance 
shares (or nil-cost options) are made 
subject to continued employment 
and satisfaction of challenging 
performance conditions which are 
met over a three year period under 
the new 2014 LTIP - subject to 
approval by shareholders at the  
2014 AGM.
The shares will vest at the end of the 
three year performance period, with 
50% being released immediately. A 
further 25% of vested shares will be 
released one year later, and the final 
25% released five years from the 
grant date.
The Committee may award dividend 
equivalents on those shares to plan 
participants to the extent that  
they vest.
Should the individual leave between 
years three and five, all vested shares 
will be released immediately on 
cessation of employment.
Clawback conditions apply to  
LTIP awards.
The maximum value of awards is 
200% of base salary.
In exceptional circumstances an 
award of 250% of base salary may 
be made.
At threshold  performance 25%  
of each element of the award  
can be earned rising to 100% at 
maximum performance.
50% of awards made under the LTIP 
are based on the Group's relative 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR ) 
against the FTSE techMARK index.
50% of awards made under the LTIP 
are based on the Group's adjusted 
earnings per share (EPS )
2
.
Further details on the measures for 
the FY2015 award are set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on 
page 53.
Shareholding requirement
To ensure that Executive Directors' 
interests are aligned with those  
of shareholders over a longer  
time horizon.
The Committee operates a system of 
shareholder guidelines to encourage 
long-term share ownership by the 
Executive Directors.
The Executive Director will have 
five years to build up to this holding 
level and it has to be maintained 
throughout the Executive Director's 
employment with the Group.
The shareholding requirement is 
200% of salary. The Committee 
has discretion to increase the 
shareholding requirement.
Not applicable.
1 Adjusted profit  is defined for FY2015 as profit before tax from continuing operations before share-based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs.
2 Adjusted Earnings per share  is based on earnings for continuing operations before share-based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs. 52
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued
Notes to the future policy table
Performance measures and targets
1. Rationale for the Annual Bonus Plan
The Annual Bonus Plan measures were selected as the Committee 
believes they provide direct alignment with the short-term 
operational targets of the Company. The Committee is of the opinion 
that the performance targets are commercially sensitive and that 
prospective disclosure would not be in the shareholders' interests. 
Except in circumstances where elements remain commercially 
sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will 
be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders 
can fully assess the basis for any payouts.
From FY2015, the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM) will run in conjunction with 
the annual bonus arrangements as described below.
Other elements of the annual bonus structure will remain as per the 
current scheme.
2. Rationale for the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
Key changes are proposed to the existing annual bonus structure to 
enable new Executive Directors (appointed after the 2014 AGM) to 
build up their shareholding in the Company and align their interests 
with those of shareholders:
 - a bonus deferral is to be introduced for new Executive Directors 
whereby any bonus earned over 100% of salary (maximum 
opportunity for Executive Directors is 125% of salary) will be 
deferred into shares (in the form of nil cost options) for three 
years and will vest based on continued employment. 
This structure brings Anite's annual bonus structure for new 
Executive Directors in line with prevailing market practice and 
ensures that new Executive Directors are aligned with the long-term 
performance of the Company. 
Given the shareholding of the current CEO and CFO in addition to the 
proposed holding period on the new LTIP and increased shareholding 
requirement (please see the following section for further details), the 
Committee feel that the current Executive Directors have sufficient 
alignment with the long-term development of the business. 
Therefore the existing annual bonus structure will be retained  
for the current Executive Directors.
3. Rationale for the Anite Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014
The Company is fully focused on creating shareholder value through 
the creation of a specialist telecoms test and measurement business 
focusing on leading edge wireless markets. Furthermore, taking into 
account recent feedback from our shareholders, the Remuneration 
Committee completed a thorough review of the Company's current 
remuneration framework with respect to Executive Directors and 
other senior executives.
Following this review, the Committee has decided to replace the 
current long-term incentive structure of a matching share award 
under the SMP (which is currently either front-loaded or granted on 
an annual basis) and annual conditional share award under the PSP 
with one annual share award of comparable value under the 
provisions of the 2014 LTIP. 
The current PSP provides an annual opportunity of 100% of salary for 
the Executive Directors and c.120% of salary opportunity per year 
under the SMP (30% per annum investment grossed up for tax and a 
two times match on the investment by the Company). Taking this into 
consideration, the proposal is for annual awards of 200% of salary 
maximum for both the CEO and CFO under the new LTIP.
Historical awards under the SMP, PSP and other employee share  
plans made before the adoption of the Directors remuneration policy 
will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules for 
each award.
Please see the notice of the AGM for further details of the new LTIP.
The PSP and SMP are due to expire in April 2015 and will not be 
renewed and no further awards will be made under these plans  
in 2014.
4. Other Remuneration Committee discretion
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out  
in this report. The Committee may also exercise operational and 
administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by 
shareholders. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend 
policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would 
be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await 
shareholder approval.
Alignment with the strategic aims
The LTIP is intended to directly support the achievement of the key 
long-term performance indicators of the Company, relative TSR 
against the FTSE techMARK, and Group adjusted EPS, which support 
the business strategy and will drive high and sustained performance 
that will lead to the creation of value for shareholders. 
The performance conditions are set at stretching levels to ensure 
payouts to Executive Directors are only provided when the Company 
delivers strong performance. 53
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Annual bonus Fixed elements of remuneration LTIP
CEO - Value of package  000
Christopher Humphrey
 Minimum
 On-target
 Maximum
421
1,098
1,714
 25%
 29%
 35%
 46%
 100%
 38%
 25%
Annual bonus Fixed elements of remuneration LTIP
CFO - Value of package  000
Richard Amos
 Minimum
 On-target
 Maximum
296
747
1,158
 25%
 29%
 35%
 46%
 100%
 40%
 25%
Alignment of interests with shareholders
One of the main criteria of success by which shareholders will judge 
the executive team is the long-term sustainable increase in TSR. The 
LTIP provides a direct relationship between returns to shareholders 
and value delivered to participants. 
TSR is easy to communicate to shareholders and participants and  
also to explain the basis of the value received by participants as a 
proportion of the value delivered to shareholders.
The condition of Group adjusted EPS provides a strong link to overall 
Group performance and is in line with prevailing governance best 
practice. Furthermore the use of Group adjusted EPS allows for a 
simple target setting/calibration process which is easy to 
communicate to shareholders and participants.
Changes to remuneration policy from previous policy
There have been no changes to the operation, maximum or 
performance measures in relation to the salary, pension and  
other benefits.
Although no PSP or SMP awards will be granted in FY2015, other 
outstanding awards granted under these plans will vest in accordance 
with the rules of these plans as previously approved by shareholders.
Details of increases in salary levels for Executive Directors can be 
found on page 65.
The introduction of Anite's 2014 LTIP and the new Deferred Annual 
Bonus Plan are detailed above. In addition to the adoption of these 
two plans, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, the 
other key change is for the introduction of greater shareholding 
requirements such that the Executive Directors must now build up 
and retain a shareholding of 200% of salary (currently 100%).
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
The policy of the Committee is to align Executive Directors' interests 
with those of shareholders and to give the Executive Directors 
incentives to perform at the highest levels. To achieve this it seeks  
to ensure that a significant proportion of the remuneration package 
varies with the performance of the Company and that targets are 
aligned with the Company's stated business objective.
The composition and total value of the Executive Directors' 
remuneration packages for FY2015 at minimum, on-target and 
maximum performance scenarios are set out in the charts below.
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows:
Element Minimum On-target Maximum
Fixed elements 2015 base salary, benefits
1
 and pension
Annual variable element  
(bonus plan)
0% 70% of base salary  
(50% based on adjusted profit and 
20% on personal objectives)
100% of maximum award
2
Long-Term Incentive Plan 0% 50% of maximum award 100% of maximum award
3
1 Based on FY2014 benefit payments. 
2 Equating to 125% of salary.
3 Equating to 200% of salary. 54
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued
Future policy table - Non-Executive Directors
Objective and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures and assessment
The Company sets fee levels 
necessary to attract and retain 
experienced and skilled Non-
Executive Directors to advise 
and assist with establishing and 
monitoring the strategic objectives  
of the Company. 
Fee levels are sufficient to attract 
individuals with appropriate 
knowledge and experience.
The Chairman is paid a fixed fee set 
by the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are paid 
a base fee and additional fees for 
chairmanship of Committees.
Objective research on companies 
within the Company's peers - based 
on market sector, size and business 
complexity of companies of within 
the FTSE 250, FTSE techMARK and 
FTSE Small Cap, is taken into account 
in determining fee levels.
In addition to fees, Non-
Executive Directors are entitled 
to reimbursement of reasonable 
business expenses.
Fees are reviewed periodically with 
any changes generally effective from 
1 May.
Any increases in fees will be 
determined based on time 
commitment and take into 
consideration level of responsibility 
and fees paid in other companies of 
comparable size and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors do not 
receive any bonus, do not participate 
in awards under the Company's share 
plans, and are not eligible to join the 
Company's pension scheme.
The Chairman's and other Non-
Executive Director fees for FY2014 
are set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 60.
The previous column sets out the 
factors that will be taken into 
consideration in determining the fees. 
In the normal course of events, 
increases in the Non-Executive 
Directors' fees will not exceed the 
average increase for employees.
None. 55
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee's approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre 
and experience needed for the role. The remuneration package for any new Executive Director would be assessed following the same 
principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table. 
The fees and benefits applicable to the appointment of any new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in accordance with the policy 
table set out on page 54.
The Committee is mindful on recruitment of guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short- or long-term incentive 
payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be  
no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements. Accordingly, prevailing 
elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the 
employee. These would be disclosed to shareholders in the following year's Annual Report on Remuneration. 
The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration:
Element Policy
Base salary and benefits The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individuals' experience  
and responsibilities and other pay structures within Anite and will be consistent with the salary policy for existing  
Executive Directors.
The Executive Director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with Anite's benefits policy as set out in the remuneration 
policy table.
Pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the GFRP or elect to receive a payment in lieu of pension benefits.
Annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan  
as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the  
Committee's discretion.
Long-Term incentives The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Anite LTIP as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under the Plan rules at the Committee's discretion.
Maximum variable 
remuneration
The maximum annual variable remuneration that an Executive Director can receive is limited to 375% (425% if the maximum 
sign-on compensation set out below is provided). This limit excludes any buy out or replacement awards.
Sign-on compensation The Committee's policy is not to provide sign-on compensation. 
However, in exceptional circumstances where the Committee decides to provide this type of compensation it will endeavour 
to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result 
in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets. The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be 
proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited to 50% of salary.
Share buy-outs/ 
replacement awards
The Committee's policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course. However, should the Committee determine that the 
individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buy-out, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited  
on cessation of a Director's previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following:
- the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Director's cessation of employment;
- the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied; and
- any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value (lapsed value ).
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Company's incentive 
plans. To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Company's existing 
incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation policies In instances where the new executive is relocated from one work-base to another, the Company will provide compensation 
to reflect the cost of relocation for the executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their 
normal residence or country of domicile.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis. 56
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued
Service contracts and payment for loss of office 
Service contracts
Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Company which is terminable by the Company on not more than 12 months' 
notice and by the Director on 12 months' notice. The Company's practice is to appoint the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
under letters of appointment. Their appointment is usually for a term of three years subject to annual re-election by the shareholders, at the 
Company's AGM. When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard for market practice and corporate governance best practice.
Executive Director Date of contract Unexpired term
Notice period by  
Company or Director
Christopher Humphrey 3 February 2003 Rolling one year contract 12 months
Richard Amos 2 November 2009 Rolling one year contract 12 months
Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment Expiry of current term
Unexpired term at 
the date of this report
Clay Brendish 4 October 2005 7 October 2014 3 months
David Hurst-Brown 23 August 2004 23 August 2016 2 years 2 months
Nigel Clifford 1 April 2009 31 March 2015 9 months
Paul Taylor 5 October 2009 5 October 2015 1 year 3 months
Patrick De Smedt 26 September 2013 25 September 2016 2 years 3 months
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company's registered office.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing Director the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst 
complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time. The Committee reserves the right to make 
additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach 
of such an obligation); or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Director's 
office or employment.
 
Payment for loss of office
The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Company's policy on payment for loss of office in respect of Executive 
Directors and any discretion available to the Committee. 
Element Cessation of employment
Base salary, benefits  
and pension 
Salary, benefits and pension contributions/salary supplement will normally be paid over the notice period. The Company has 
discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination of the salary, value of benefits and pension amounts payable during 
the notice period. In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
Mr Humphrey is entitled to legacy contract provisions which, except for dismissal for gross misconduct, will be honoured in 
full. The Company has the obligation to pay Mr Humphrey six months' salary and contractual benefits within seven days of 
termination, and six months' salary payable in equivalent number of monthly instalments. These monthly payments cease if 
Mr Humphrey commences employment with a new employer during the payment period. 
These legacy contractual provisions were agreed many years ago at a time when it was believed to be in shareholders' 
interests that the maximum obligations of each party in the event of termination were transparent and agreed in advance to 
provide certainty.
In the event of termination without cause, the Company has the right to pay Mr Amos 12 month's salary payable in equivalent 
number of monthly instalments. Payments cease if Mr Amos commences employment with a new employer during the 
payment period. 57
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Element Cessation of employment
Annual Bonus Plan Where an Executive Director's employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is 
made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on 
performance achieved over the period. No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an Executive Director's employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual bonus award for the 
period worked in that performance year may be payable at the Committee's discretion subject to an assessment based on 
performance achieved over the period and provided the individual is a good leaver . 
The good leaver definition is the same as for the LTIP set out below.
Mr Humphrey is entitled to legacy contract provisions which, except for dismissal for gross misconduct, will be honoured in 
full. The Company has the obligation to pay Mr Humphrey the annual bonus he would have received had he continued to be 
employed from the date of termination until the expiry of the notice period.
These legacy contractual provisions were agreed many years ago at a time when it was believed to be in shareholders' 
interests that the maximum obligations of each party in the event of termination were transparent and agreed in advance to 
provide certainty.
Committee discretion
The Committee has discretion to determine whether an individual is a good leaver and therefore whether a pro-rated bonus 
will be payable for the year of cessation.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Where an Executive Director's employment is terminated as a good leaver prior to the end of the deferral period, awards will be 
pro-rated for time in respect of each subsisting deferred share award.
For bad leavers, awards any unvested deferred share awards will lapse.
Committee discretion 
The Committee has discretion to determine that an executive is a good leaver. It is the Committee's intention to only use this 
discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
The Committee will retain discretion as to whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of 
grant to the date of cessation. The Committee's policy is generally to pro-rate to time. It is the Committee's intention to only 
use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP )
The treatment of awards granted under the LTIP is governed by the rules, as approved by shareholders. On termination of 
employment before the measurement date, all unvested awards will lapse, unless the following circumstances apply which 
deem the participant a good leaver :
- Death;
- Injury, ill-health or disability;
- Retirement;
- Redundancy; or
- Any other circumstances if the Committee decides in any particular case.
Awards will vest for a good leaver on the normal vesting date.
The number of awards vesting for a good leaver will be dependent upon the proportionate satisfaction of the performance 
conditions at vesting of the award and time pro-ration based on time elapsed from the date of grant and the cessation of 
employment.
Anyone who is not a good leaver will be a bad leaver. Where a bad leaver ceases to be employed prior to the awards becoming 
exercisable all unvested awards will lapse (including accrued unvested nil-cost options).
Committee discretion 
The Committee will have discretion to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver in exceptional circumstances and 
will provide a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in advance, of the basis for its determination.
Notes
1 There are no contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012 that impact on any payment for loss of office other than those stated in the table above.
2 Similar provisions apply to the outstanding awards granted under the SMP and PSP. 58
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Payments for a change of control
The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Company's policy on payment on a change of control in respect of 
Executive Directors and any discretion available to the Committee. 
Element Change of control
Annual Bonus Plan The extent to which the performance requirements are satisfied will determine the annual bonus which is earned.
Excludes a reorganisation or reconstruction where ownership does not materially change.
Committee discretion 
The Committee will take into account such factors as it considers relevant in relation to the bonus plan payment for the year  
in which the event occurs, including the proportion of the bonus plan year elapsed at the date of the event.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan The number of shares subject to subsisting deferred share awards on a change of control will vest in full.
Committee discretion 
None.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP ) 
The treatment of awards granted under the LTIP is governed by the rules, as approved by shareholders. 
If a change of control occurs the level of awards that vest will be dependent upon the proportionate satisfaction of the 
performance conditions at the point of the change of control and time pro-ration based on time elapsed from the date  
of grant and the change of control.
Committee discretion 
The Remuneration Committee will retain their discretion to disapply time pro-ration in circumstances that it feels are  
fair and appropriate.
The application of discretion will be considered to each individual award and will not be applied in aggregate to all  
outstanding awards. 
Notes
1 There are no contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012 that impact on any payment for loss of office other than those stated in the table above.
2 Similar provisions apply to the outstanding awards granted under the SMP and PSP.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in Anite when developing policy
In setting the remuneration policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of Anite are taken into account, including any base 
salary increases awarded. The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the Executive 
Directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company. No comparison metrics were used.
Although the Committee takes into account the pay and conditions of other employees, the Company did not consult with employees when 
drawing up the policy report.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and 
practice. Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with 
key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its remuneration policy.
For this year, views of major shareholders were sought with regards to the adoption of the new Anite Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014 and the 
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Directors' Remuneration Policy continued 59
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
This section of the report illustrates how the Company has implemented its remuneration policy
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the year ended  
30 April 2014. Comparative figures for 201 3 have also been provided. Figures shown below have been calculated in accordance with the  
new remuneration disclosure regulations (The Large- and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013).
Salary  
 
Taxable benefits
1
  
 
Annual bonus  
 
Long-term incentives
2,3
  
 
Pensions
4 
 
Total  
 
Year ended 30 April 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Christopher Humphrey 386,250 375,000 23,510 11,230 - 283,551 260,267 5,630,400 - - 670,027 6,300,181
Richard Amos 257.500 250,000 4,515 4,408 - 189,034 368,192 2,466,334 25,750 25,000 655,957 2,934,776
Total 643,750 625,000 28,025 15,638 - 472,585 628,459 8,096,734 25,750 25,000 1,325,984 9,234,957
1 Taxable benefits include medical insurance, death in service life assurance, permanent health insurance, car fuel expenses and professional subscriptions for each Director. In addition 
Mr Humphrey has a London flat provided on an annual lease (since December 2013) to which he contributes to the rent and pays all running costs. The balance of the rent for the 
period of  13,000 paid by the Company is included as a benefit in kind.
2 The value shown in the 2014 long-term incentives is the LTIP award granted in 2011 which will vest on 2 July 2014. This value comprises both the PSP and the SMP awards which  
vest on this date together with the value of dividends earned over this period on the vested amounts. The PSP award will vest at 66.4% of its maximum value and is valued using  
the average share price for the three months ending on 30 April 2014 of 83.89p. The SMP award will vest at 66.4% of its maximum value and is valued using the average share  
price for the three months ending on 30 April 2014 of 83.89p. The SMP is a rolling three-year plan and the value of the vested awards represented one year's award for Mr Amos. 
3 The long-term incentives for 2013 comprise the full vesting of the 2010 PSP and 2010 SMP (including matching awards). The SMP allowed executives the opportunity to invest up  
to maximum of 90% equivalent of salary in shares they hold in advance over a rolling three-year period (30% per annum) the grant made on 7 July 2010, Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos 
invested 90% and 60% respectively in the SMP and matching awards were granted at 2:1 on a grossed up for tax basis. 
4 Mr Humphrey makes his own pension arrangements and the Group makes no payment in this respect. Mr Amos belongs to the Anite Group Flexible Retirement Plan and the Company 
contributes 10% of his base salary on the basis that he contributes a minimum of 5%.
The table above has been subject to audit.
Additional details on variable pay in single figure table
Annual bonus for year ending 30 April 2014
Under the terms of the annual bonus, for the year ended 30 April 2014, a bonus of up to 1 25% of salary could be earned - 105% for profit 
achievement compared to a stretching profit before tax target set as part of the annual budget and strategy work and 20% for achieving 
personal objectives that were agreed at the beginning of the new financial year.
Christopher Humphrey Richard Amos
Measure Weighting
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
performance 
required
Percentage 
of maximum 
performance 
achieved
% of maximum 
bonus received
Annual bonus 
received 
 000s
% of maximum 
bonus received
Annual bonus 
received 
 000s
PBT growth 84%  36.8m  43.5m 47% 0%  0 0%  0
Personal objectives 16%  34.8m - - 0%  0 0%  0
Total 100% - 0%  0 0%  0
The actual performance for the year ended 30 April 2014 resulted in the adjusted profit before tax of  20.4m (including the discontinued 
adjusted profit of Anite Travel of  5.5m) which was below the minimum threshold performance required and therefore no bonus is payable  
for this year's performance.
 
The personal objectives set by the Committee for year ended 30 April 2014 included strategic, customer-facing and investor-based objectives 
for Mr Humphrey and more operationally based objectives for Mr Amos. However because the minimum profit threshold had not been achieved 
no personal objective bonus is payable.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in relation to the outcome of the annual bonus awards.
The table above has been subject to audit.
 
Annual Report on Remuneration 60
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Vesting of 2011 PSP and SMP awards
Based on the results to 30 April 2014 100% of the profit targets required under the 201 1 PSP and SMP schemes were achieved. The 
Company's TSR performance placed it between the median and upper quartile of the comparator group (FTSE All-Share Software and 
Computer Services sector) and 32.8% of the element of the award will vest. In total 66.4% of the total of both these awards will vest.
Condition Weighting
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
performance 
required
LTIP value 
for meeting 
threshold and 
maximum 
performance  
(% salary)
Performance 
achieved
Vesting  
%
TSR 50% Median Upper Quartile 25%-100% Median-upper 32.8%
PBIT of Wireless division (sum of PBIT in three financial years) 37.5%  54.0m  64.0m 25%-100%  75.0m 100%
PBIT of Wireless division (in any one year) 12.5%  23.4m  23.4m 100%  29.1m 100%
Between threshold and maximum, vesting takes place on a straight-line basis.
The above table has been subject to audit.
Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director paid in the year ended  
30 April 2014. Comparative figures for 201 3 have also been provided. Figures shown below have been calculated in accordance with the  
new remuneration disclosure regulations (The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013).
Total Fees  
Year ended 30 April 2014 2013
Clay Brendish 139,000 139,000
David Hurst-Brown 42,917 47,000
Nigel Clifford 40,000 40,000
Paul Taylor 45,000 45,000
Patrick De Smedt (joined 26 September 2013) 27,959 -
Total 294,876 271,000
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive taxable benefits as part of their remuneration.
No fee increases were awarded for the 2013/14 or 2014/15 financial years. Mr Hurst-Brown's fees were reduced when he stepped down  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as Senior Independent Director in September 2013.
The above table has been subject to audit.
Long-term incentives awarded in the 2014 financial year
On 8 July 2013, the Committee made awards to Christopher Humphrey and Richard Amos under the PSP and SMP, as follows:
Director
Number of 
options granted 
under the PSP
Face value 
of the award
Award as  
% of salary
Number of 
options granted 
under the SMP
% of salary 
invested
Face value  
of the award
Award as  
% of salary
Christopher Humphrey 288,246  386,250 100% 951,954 90%  1,311,793 340%
Richard Amos 192,164  257,500 100% 423,091 60%  583,019 226%
Under the SMP Executive Directors could invest shares they held up to a level of 90% equivalent of base salary in any rolling three-year period 
(i.e. an average annual level of co-investment of 30% per annum, with the opportunity to invest a higher amount in any of the three financial 
years). These investment shares were matched on a ratio of two for one (grossed up for tax) and have to be held by the executives throughout 
the performance period.
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued 61
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
In accordance with the rules of these plans, the face value of the PSP award is calculated using the mid-market share price at the close of 
business on 5 July 2013 (134.0p), and the face value of the SMP award is calculated using the mid-market share price at the close of business 
on 8 July 2013 (137.80p). The PSP and SMP awards are granted in the form of nil-cost options and are exercisable for no consideration.
The table at the bottom of page 60 has been subject to audit.
PSP and SMP 2013 Awards performance conditions
a) Half of the award will be based on the Company's relative TSR compared with the FTSE techMARK index. 
b) Half of the award will be based on the sum of the PBIT of the Wireless division in each of the three financial years of the performance 
period (2014, 2015 and 2016).
Proportion of award vesting TSR PBIT of Wireless division 
0% - Less than  115.0m
15% -  115.0m
15%-25% - Between  115.0m and  120.0m
25% Median  120.0m
25%-100% Between median and upper quartile Between  120.0m and  135.0m
100% Upper quartile or above  135.0m or above
Performance to date
If 30 April 2014 were the end of the performance period:
1) The Company's TSR over the performance period to date would have placed it  below the median of the comparator group, which would 
result in 0% of this element of the award vesting.
2) Total PBIT of the Wireless division for 2014, 2015 and 2016 to date is  16.8m and represents 12.4% of the proportion of the maximum 
PBIT target to be achieved over the performance period.
Payments to past Directors
There were no payments made to former Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office
There were no payments made for loss of office during the year.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors' remuneration
Remit of the Committee
The principal function of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. It is also 
responsible for setting the individual remuneration packages for the Chairman (in his absence), for certain other members of the executive 
management, and for monitoring and approving the operation of all share-based incentive arrangements. The Committee also determines the 
terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference which are posted on the Company's website.
Members of the Committee
The following Independent Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee during FY2014.
Member Appointed
Meetings 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Patrick De Smedt (Chairman) September 2013 3 3
David Hurst-Brown (resigned 26 September 2013)
1
August 2004 2 2
Clay Brendish April 2007 5 5
Paul Taylor October 2009 5 5
Nigel Clifford March 2009 5 5
Note: There were other short notice meetings held telephonically during the year not included above.
1 David Hurst-Brown had been a member of the Remuneration Committee for more than nine years and as such was not considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. He therefore stepped down as Chairman and as a member of the Committee on 26 September 2013 and Patrick De Smedt was appointed as Chairman to the Committee in  
his place.  62
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
External advisers
Following his appointment, Patrick De Smedt as Chairman of the Committee undertook a review of advisers to the Committee. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC ) are now the Committee's sole independent advisers on executive remuneration and employee share 
schemes. PwC were appointed by the Committee and they are considered independent and objective. PwC are members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to Executive remuneration consulting in the UK. Total 
fees paid to PwC during the year amounted to  28,000. Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects carried out for 
the Committee during the year. PwC did not provide any other services to the Company during the year. 
The Company Secretary provides the Committee with information and assistance. The Chief Executive regularly attends meetings, by 
invitation, to provide his insight on business objectives, the individual performance of his direct reports and pay and conditions throughout  
the Group. No individual is present when their own remuneration is being specifically discussed.
Directors' interests in shares
The table below shows, in relation to each Director, the total number of shares and share options in which he is interested as at 30 April 2014.
Director
Share ownership 
requirements 
(% of salary)
Number of 
shares owned 
outright
1
Vested but 
unexercised 
share options
Share options 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Unvested SAYE 
options
SAYE options 
exercised in the 
financial year
Share ownership 
requirement met
Christopher Humphrey 100% 1,801,018 5,754,378 1,975,219 51,905 - Yes
Richard Amos 100% 487,061 1,840,548 1,440,614 15,270 - Yes
Clay Brendish - 319,472 - - - - -
David Hurst-Brown - 230,000 - - - - -
Nigel Clifford - 41,166 - - - - -
Paul Taylor - 27,250 - - - - -
Patrick De Smedt - 19,969 - - - - -
1 In the period from 1 May to 30 June 2013 the only changes in the interests of the Directors related to the monthly investment by the Executive Directors in the share incentive plan. 
During this period, Mr Humphrey acquired 642 shares and Mr Amos 642 shares.
The above table has been subject to audit.
Share ownership guidelines
To provide a further alignment of interest with shareholders, the Executive Directors participating in the PSP and SMP, when exercising an 
award, are required to retain in shares an amount equal in value to 50% of the after-tax gain made until they have built up a shareholding 
equal to 100% of base salary (this will increase to 200% of salary upon approval of the new remuneration policy). Both Executive Directors 
held in excess of 100% of salary in shares at the date of this report. 
The use of new issue or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under the share plans is subject to a 15% dilution limit in any ten-year period 
(this will decrease to 10%, in line with corporate governance best practice upon approval of the new remuneration policy). The current 
potential dilution is well below this level. The Committee, aware of shareholders' views in connection with this matter, continues to take active 
steps to control the dilutive effect of the Company's share incentives and is currently working under an informal dilution limit of 10%. The 
actual potential dilution is currently 4.5% (2013: 5.4%) and of this only 0.28% have to be settled by new issue shares, the balance can be 
settled by either market purchase or new issue shares.
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued 63
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Directors' share options
To provide further context on the shareholding of Directors, options in respect of ordinary shares for Directors who served in the year are 
as below:
Options at 
1 May 
2013
Options 
awarded 
during year
Options 
vested 
during year
Options 
exercised  
in year
Options at 
30 April 
2014
Option 
price
Share price 
at date of 
award
Date of 
grant
Vesting/first 
exercisable 
date
Expiry 
date
Christopher Humphrey
ESOS 149,912 - - 149,912 - 56.5p 56.5p 23/01/2004 23/01/2007 22/01/2014
ESOS 187,500 - - - 187,500 48.5p 48.5p 16/08/2004 16/08/2007 15/08/2014
PSP 228,042 - - - 228,042 0.0p 37.0p 18/08/2008 18/08/2011 17/08/2018
PSP 304,794 - - - 304,794 0.0p 27.0p 23/12/2008 23/12/2011 22/12/2018
PSP 830,350 - - - 830,350 0.0p 28.0p 10/07/2009 10/07/2012 09/07/2019
PSP 861,111 - 861,111 - 861,111 0.0p 36.0p 07/07/2010 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
PSP dividend - 24,259 24,259 - 24,259 0.0p 134.0p 07/07/2013 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
PSP 448,322 - - - 448,322 0.0p 74.5p 30/06/2011 30/06/2014 29/06/2021
PSP 286,697 - - - 286,697 0.0p 130.8p 04/07/2012 04/07/2015 03/07/2022
PSP - 288,246 - - 288,246 0.0p 134.0p 08/07/2013 08/07/2016 07/07/2023
SMP 3,207,818 - 3,207,818 - 3,207,818 0.0p 35.5p 07/07/2010 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
SMP dividend - 90,370 90,370 - 90,370 0.0p 134.0p 07/07/2013 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
SMP - 951,954 - - 951,954 0.0p 137.8p 08/07/2013 08/07/2016 07/07/2023
Share option award 20,134 - - - 20,134 0.0p 74.5p 30/06/2011 30/06/2012 29/06/2016
SAYE 41,466 - - - 41,466 22.5p 28.3p 31/07/2009 01/09/2014 01/03/2015
SAYE 10,439 - - - 10,439 59.1p 73.8p 01/08/2011 01/09/2016 01/03/2017
Total 6,576,585 1,354,829 4,183,558 149,912 7,781,502
Richard Amos
PSP 513,889 - 513,889 - 513,889 0.0p 36.0p 07/07/2010 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
PSP dividend - 14,477 14,477 - 14,477 0.0p 134.0p 07/07/2013 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
PSP 281,879 - - - 281,879 0.0p 74.5p 30/06/2011 30/06/2014 29/06/2021
PSP 191,131 - - - 191,131 0.0p 130.8p 04/07/2012 04/07/2015 03/07/2022
PSP - 192,164 - - 192,164 0.0p 134.0p 08/07/2013 08/07/2016 07/07/2023
SMP 1,276,229 - 1,276,229 - 1,276,229 0.0p 35.5p 07/07/2010 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
SMP dividend - 35,953 35,953 - 35,953 0.0p 134.0p 07/07/2013 07/07/2013 06/07/2020
SMP 352,349 - - - 352,349 0.0p 74.5p 30/06/2011 30/06/2014 29/06/2021
SMP - 423,091 - - 423,091 0.0p 137.8p 08/07/2013 08/07/2016 07/07/2023
SAYE 15,270 - - - 15,270 59.1p 73.8p 01/08/2011 01/09/2016 01/03/2017
Total 2,630,747 665,685 1,840,548 - 3,296,432
The closing price of an ordinary share of Anite plc as at 30 April 2014 was 82.25p. The highest and lowest share prices during the financial year were 139.92p and 76p respectively.  
Mr Humphrey exercised 149,912 options (cost 56.5p) at a share price of 90p during the year, resulting in a taxable gain of  50,220; he retained 149,912 shares, after settling the cost  
of the options and the tax and NI due himself. The shares were added to his Company shareholding. 64
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
2014
  Anite    FTSE TechMark    FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services
2009 0
100
200
300
400
500
2010 2011 2012 2013
This graph shows the value by 30 April 2014 of  100 invested in Anite plc on 30 April 2009 
compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer 
Services index, and the FTSE TechMARK All Share Index. The other points plotted are the 
values at intervening financial year ends.  
Source: Thomson Reuters DataStream
Performance Graph
The table below sets out the details of remuneration of the CEO over 
the past five financial years.
Year
CEO 
Single figure 
of total 
remuneration
 
Annual bonus 
pay out 
% against 
maximum 
opportunity 
%
PSP vesting 
rates against 
shares awarded 
%
SMP vesting 
rates against 
shares awarded
%
2014 670,027 0% 66% -
2013 6,300,181 76% 100% 100%
2012 1,849,479 100% 100% -
2011
1
1,010,579 100% 27% -
2010 342,669 0% 0% 0%
1 The single figure of remuneration and the vesting level of the long-term incentive 
award that vested in during the 201 1 financial year relates to the award made to 
Christopher Humphrey in December 2008 when he was appointed to the role of CEO. 
The single figure of remuneration in 201 1 does not include the value of the PSP award 
made to Mr Humphrey in his prior role, which part vested during the 201 1 financial year. 
The vesting level of this award was 33.35% ( 132,834).
Percentage change in CEO remuneration
The table below compares the percentage increase in the CEO's pay 
(including salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus) with Anite's UK 
employee workforce
1
.
% increase in remuneration in  
2014 compared with 2013
CEO Employees
Salary and fees 3% 3%
Taxable benefits
2
109% 4%
Annual bonuses (100%) (100%)
1 UK employees have been selected as the most appropriate comparator pool, given our 
headquarters is in the UK.
2 The increase in the CEO benefits represents the usage of a company flat during 
2013/14 as detailed above.
Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below sets out the relative importance of the spend on pay 
in the year ended 30 April 2014 and 30 April 2013 compared with 
distributions to shareholders by way of dividend.
2014 2013 % change
Total spend on 
employee pay
1
 42.00m  42.75m (1.75%)
Dividends paid
2
 5.27m  5.27m 0%
1 The total spend on employee pay includes Executive Directors. The total includes the 
cost of wages and salaries, bonuses, social security costs, share-based payments and 
pension costs.
2 The dividends paid include the proposed final dividend for the relevant year.
External Directorships
Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external Non-Executive 
Directorships or offices without the approval of the Board. 
Christopher Humphrey serves as a Non-Executive Director of the 
Vitec Group plc (appointed 1 December 2013) for which he has 
received and retained fees of  17,000.
Directors' Remuneration report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued 65
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Anite plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Implementation of policy in coming year
During FY2014, the Committee received advice from PwC on the 
future structure of executive remuneration. The review found that 
the use of a share matching plan was not in line with market practice, 
and that the award levels under the PSP were below the market. The 
outcome of the review is a new remuneration policy for Executive 
Directors which will come into effect from the AGM in September 
2014. The key elements of the new remuneration package are  
as follows:
 - Base salary - base salary will be increased by 3% for the 
Executive Directors (Christopher Humphrey  397,840, Richard 
Amos  265,225).
 - Pension - Mr Humphrey makes his own pension arrangements 
and the Group makes no payment in this respect. Mr Amos belongs 
to the GFRP and the Company contributes 10% of his base salary 
on the basis that he contributes a minimum of 5%. 
 - Annual bonus - a deferral element will be introduced for new 
Executive Directors only whereby any bonus earned above 100% 
of salary will be deferred into Anite plc shares, to be held for three 
years. The same weightings will apply as per the previous financial 
year. Further details are set out on page 53 of this report.
 - Long-term incentive - the existing PSP and SMP will not be 
renewed. The maximum opportunity levels under the new LTIP 
will be increased to compensate for the removal of the SMP. The 
maximum long-term incentive opportunity level for the CEO and 
CFO will be increased to 200% of base salary. The performance 
conditions attaching to the new LTIP will be more closely aligned 
to the Group strategy - 50% of performance will be based on 
Group adjusted EPS and the remaining 50% of the award will be 
based on relative TSR vs FTSE techMARK.
The views of our shareholders are extremely important to us and  
as part of the process for putting forward the new LTIP to our 
shareholders for approval at our 2014 AGM, we have sought the 
views of our top seven shareholders as well as the ABI and ISS  
to receive their feedback to the proposed LTIP.
The Committee will seek approval of this new remuneration policy  
at the 2014 AGM.
Statement of shareholder voting to approve the Remuneration 
Report at the 2013 AGM
Total voting shares
Votes for 
(as a %, not 
including 
abstentions)
Votes against 
(as a %, not 
including 
abstentions)
174,824,081 97.97% 2.03%
This report has been approved by the Board and has been signed on 
its behalf by:
Patrick De Smedt
Remuneration Committee Chairman
1 July 2014