 As the Chairman of the Remuneration 
and T alent Committee, I am pleased 
to present the 2013 Directors' 
Remuneration report. 
Following the recent changes to 
remuneration reporting requirements 
introduced by the UK government, 
this year's Remuneration report 
includes the Company's Directors' 
Remuneration Policy which, subject 
to shareholder approval, will take 
e ect from the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting and is intended to remain 
in place for three years. 
The Committee believes that the Remuneration Policy will enable the 
Company to continue to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded 
with regard to their responsibilities undertaken, taking into account 
comparable pay levels and structures in the United Kingdom, Chile 
and the international mining industry. The Remuneration Policy is 
closely aligned with the Group's strategy to attract, retain and develop 
the best talent available to support the Group in the future.
The Company's Board balance remains predominantly Non-Executive, 
with only one Executive Director who is also Chairman of the Board. 
The Executive Chairman does not receive variable remuneration and 
the Committee continues to believe that this is appropriate given his 
interest in the Company's shares. 
Variable remuneration is an important part of the Group's remuneration 
structures for the Group's executives below Board level. In order 
to allow shareholders to understand how the Group uses variable 
remuneration to align strategy and performance, we have included 
in the Remuneration Report an explanation of the remuneration 
arrangements that were in place for the Antofagasta Minerals Executive 
Committee in 2013. The Executive Committee are eligible to receive a 
combination of base salary and other benefits, an annual cash bonus 
based on individual and Group performance and awards under the 
Group's Long-Term Incentive Plan (which rewards Group performance 
and encourages the retention of talent over the longer term).
An external benchmarking review of the fees paid to the Executive 
Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and senior management was 
carried out by Towers Watson during the year. Following the review, 
some minor modifications were made to senior management 
compensation. However, it was once again decided not to make 
any changes to Directors' fees. 
The Committee also commissioned an independent externally 
facilitated evaluation of its effectiveness during the year which was 
performed by Independent Audit Limited. This evaluation concluded 
that significant improvements had been made in the last year or so 
to the way in which the Committee and the Human Resources team at 
Antofagasta were dealing with compensation, succession planning and 
talent management, and led us to introduce a number of changes to 
further enhance the Committee's effectiveness. The outcomes of this 
evaluation are discussed in more detail in the Remuneration report.
The Company also implemented a review of the Group's 
organisational structure during 2013 which resulted in several key 
changes to better align roles with the Group's strategic objectives. 
The Committee oversaw this process which also included a wider 
review of remuneration levels across the Group and the development 
of a platform to attract and retain talent. The key activities of the 
Committee are further explained in the Remuneration report. 
During the course of 2014, the Committee will continue to monitor 
the structure of remuneration arrangements to ensure that they 
reflect the Group's strategic objectives.
Annual Statement by the Chairman of 
the Remuneration and T alent Committee
Governance 90 Basis of preparation of this report 
and compliance
This Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance 
with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). 
It also describes how the Board has applied the principles of good 
governance as set out in the Code. During the year under review, 
the Company complied with the detailed provisions set out in Section 
D of the Code except that as explained on page 80, the Executive 
Chairman, who is the only Executive Director, did not receive any 
reward structured to vary with individual or corporate performance 
(principle D.1 and provision D.1.1). 
Unaudited information
Directors' Remuneration Policy 
The Remuneration and Talent Committee (the Committee ) presents 
the 2014 Directors' Remuneration Policy (the Policy ), which will be 
put to shareholders as a binding vote at the Company's 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. Subject to shareholder approval, this Policy will take 
effect from the 2014 Annual General Meeting with the intention that 
it will remain in place for three years. If the Committee is required or 
wishes to change the Policy within this period, it will submit a revised 
Policy to shareholders for approval. Once the Policy is approved, 
the Company will only make remuneration payments to current or 
prospective Directors, or payments for loss of office, if the payment 
is in line with the Policy.
The policies that are summarised in this section are consistent with 
those that have been in place at the Company for a number of years. 
The Committee believes that they are effective, simple to understand 
and support the continued growth of the Company. The Policy is 
broken into a number of sections:
   a future policy table for Executive Directors, which sets out details 
of the remuneration elements;
   remuneration policies that relate solely to Non-Executive Directors; 
   relevant policies relating to Executive Director remuneration, 
including recruitment, appointment letters, service contracts and 
terminations; and
   statements regarding the contextual information the Committee 
considers when reaching remuneration decisions in respect of 
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Company's approach to Directors' remuneration reflects the 
predominantly non-executive composition of the Board.
The Company's policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded 
with regard to the responsibilities undertaken, and to consider 
comparable pay levels and structures in the United Kingdom, Chile, 
and the international mining industry. Corporate and individual 
performance is taken into account in setting the pay level for the 
Chairman as an Executive Director and this is reviewed annually in 
comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity. 
Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are also reviewed in 
this way, and take into account the specific responsibilities undertaken 
and the structure of the Board.
Governance
Antofagasta plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91
Financial statements Other information
Strategic report 
Operational review
Strategic report 
Financial review
Strategic report 
Strategic review
Strategic report 
Overview Remuneration report
PurposeOperation Maximum opportunity 
Executive Chairman
Fees To provide appropriate 
compensation to reflect the 
responsibilities of this role and 
to execute the Group's strategic 
objectives at an appropriate 
level of cost.
To act as the sole element of 
compensation. The Committee 
feels that this is appropriate given 
the Executive Chairman's interest 
in the Company's shares (both via 
a company controlled by him and 
as a member of the Luksic family), 
which provides alignment with 
other shareholders.
Fees are the only element of compensation that the Executive 
Chairman is eligible to receive.
Fees are reviewed annually, with increases, if any, typically 
taking effect from 1 January each year.
The Committee considers the following factors when reviewing 
fee levels:
-  corporate and individual performance; and
-  the competitiveness of total remuneration assessed against 
appropriate peers in terms of nature, size and complexity.
The Executive Chairman receives a base fee for services 
to Antofagasta plc's Board as well as additional fees for chairing 
or serving as a member of any of the Board's Committees.
Separate base fees are paid for chairing the Antofagasta 
Minerals Board and for being a director or for chairing certain 
strategic subsidiary companies within the Group. The Executive 
Chairman is currently Chairman of Antofagasta Railway 
Company plc and Aguas de Antofagasta.
The Executive Chairman also receives a base fee for services 
provided to Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta 
Minerals (pursuant to separate service contracts).
Fees are determined and paid in a combination of US dollars 
and Chilean pesos. The Committee may determine fee levels 
and/or pay fees in any other currency if deemed necessary.  
For comparison purposes, all compensation is in US dollars 
in this report. 
In normal circumstances, the maximum annual 
fee increase will be 7%. However, the 
Committee has discretion to exceed this in 
exceptional circumstances, for example:
-  if there is a sustained period of high inflation; 
-  if the Executive Chairman's fees are out of line 
with the market; and/or
-  if fees for chairing or serving as a member 
of any of the Board's Committees is out of  
line with the market.
Any increases will take into account the factors 
described under operation  and will not be 
excessive.
Fee levels for additional roles within the 
Antofagasta Group are set based on the needs 
and time commitment expected and may be 
determined and/or paid in a combination of 
currencies including US dollars and Chilean 
pesos.
Fees will also be increased to take account 
of Chilean inflation and may be reported as 
an increase or decrease as a result of the 
exchange rate impact of Chilean peso 
denominated fees, given all amounts in 
this report are reported in US dollars. 
Variable 
Remuneration
The Committee does not consider it appropriate to make performance-related pay awards, such as bonuses, to the Executive Chairman given his role 
as Chairman of the Board and his interest in the Company's shares (both via a company controlled by him and as a member of the Luksic family). 
Benefits To provide appropriate benefits 
and reimburse expenses that are 
incurred in the performance of 
duties of the Executive Chairman.
Benefits include the provision of life, accident and health 
insurance.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional 
insurance benefits in accordance with Company policy, 
should this be deemed necessary.
In normal circumstances, the maximum value 
of benefits will be $22,000. However, the 
Committee has discretion to exceed this should 
the underlying cost of providing the pre-existing 
benefits increase, or if additional benefits are 
provided and are deemed appropriate.
Pension The Executive Chairman does not receive pension contributions nor is he entitled to receive pension contributions under this policy.
Non-Executive Directors
Fees To attract and retain high-calibre, 
experienced Non-Executive 
Directors by offering globally 
competitive fee levels. 
Fees are reviewed annually and the competitiveness of total 
fees is assessed against companies of a similar nature, size 
and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee for services to 
Antofagasta plc's Board as well as additional fees for chairing 
or serving as a member of any of the Board's Committees.
Separate base fees are paid for services to the Antofagasta 
Minerals Board (all Non-Executive Directors are members of 
both Boards), and for being directors of subsidiary companies 
and joint venture companies within the Group.
Ram n Jara also receives a base fee for services provided to 
Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta Minerals 
(pursuant to a separate service contract).
Fee levels are denominated in US dollars. The Committee may 
determine fee levels and/or pay fees in any other currency if 
deemed necessary.
Non-Executive Directors' fee levels follow the 
same policy for increases as the Executive 
Chairman's fees (see above). 
Variable 
Remuneration
Given the predominantly non-executive composition of the Board, there are no arrangements for Directors to acquire benefits through the acquisition 
of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, to benefit through performance-related pay or to participate in long-term incentive 
schemes. The Code states that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Benefits To provide appropriate benefits 
required in the performance of duties 
of the Non-Executive Directors. 
Benefits may be provided to Non-Executive Directors following the same policy as for the Executive Chairman 
(see above).
Pension No Director receives pension contributions. The Code considers that the participation by a Non-Executive Director in a company's pension scheme 
could potentially impact on the independence of that Non-Executive Director.
As Directors do not receive variable remuneration, there are no provisions in place to recover sums paid or withhold payments made to Directors. 
Governance 92 Executive Chairman -  
Illustrative remuneration outcomes 
The Committee does not consider it appropriate to make regular 
performance-related pay awards to the only Executive Director, Jean-
Paul Luksic, given his role as Chairman of the Board and his interest in 
the Company's shares (both via a company controlled by him and as 
a member of the Luksic family). Therefore, the Executive Chairman's 
pay levels do not vary with performance and the same amount of fees 
and benefits are received under the threshold, target and maximum 
performance scenarios as follows. 
$0 $1m $2m $3m $4m
Maximum 100% of remuneration
100% of remuneration
100% of remuneration
$3.615m
$3.615m
$3.615m Threshold
Target
Executive Chairman's total fixed pay 
(base salary and benefits) 
The chart shows the expected total remuneration receivable by the 
Executive Chairman in 2014. This chart does not take into account 
adjustments for Chilean inflation which will occur under the terms of the 
Executive Chairman's service contracts or the exchange rate impact 
of Chilean peso denominated fees given all amounts in this report are 
reported in US dollars. Each bar represents remuneration receivable 
over a financial year plus the expected value of benefits provided.
Recruitment policy
It is not currently expected that the Board structure at Antofagasta will 
change during the period of the Policy. If a new Executive Chairman is 
appointed or additional Executive Directors are appointed, base salary 
levels will be set taking into account a range of factors including market 
levels, experience, internal salaries, interest in Antofagasta shares 
and cost. 
Other elements of annual remuneration will be set in line with the policy 
set out in the Future Policy Table. The following exceptions will apply:
   in the event that an internal appointment is made, the Committee 
retains the discretion to continue with existing remuneration 
provisions relating to pension and benefits;
   as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment, 
the Committee retains the discretion to provide variable 
remuneration in line with the structure of variable remuneration 
provided to the Executive Committee (as described on page 99 
of this Remuneration report) and in a quantum up to 500% of base 
salary, or where this is not sufficient to secure an appointment, to 
provide variable remuneration in line with companies of a similar size, 
nature and complexity; and
   as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment, 
the Committee retains the discretion to make additional payments 
linked to relocation.
Letters of appointment and/or service contracts will be entered into 
on terms similar to those for the Executive Chairman, as summarised 
in the Service contracts and letters of appointment policy section 
on page 94.
In addition to the elements noted above, if additional Executive 
Directors are appointed, the Committee retains the discretion to make 
further cash or share awards on a one-off basis to new Executive 
Directors on appointment in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules 
and, in exercising this discretion, will take into account the specific 
circumstances of the new Executive Director, including whether the 
Executive Director has had to forfeit existing incentive awards when 
accepting the appointment. There is no prescribed maximum for 
awards in respect of forfeited existing arrangements as it will depend 
on the individual circumstances of the appointee and the value of 
forfeited awards. Any awards made in excess of those made to buy-
out  forfeited awards on appointment will not exceed 500% of salary.
With respect to the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, 
terms of appointment will be consistent with those currently adopted 
for the Non-Executive Directors as summarised in the service contracts 
and letters of appointment policy on page 94. Variable pay will not be 
considered and, as such, no maximum applies. Fees will be consistent 
with the Policy at the time of appointment. 
In the unlikely event that a Non-Executive Chairman is appointed to the 
Board, the same considerations that apply to the appointment of new 
Non-Executive Directors will apply taking into account the additional 
responsibilities of the Chairman.
A timely announcement with respect to any Director appointment 
will be made to the regulatory news services and posted on 
Antofagasta's website.
Governance
Antofagasta plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93
Financial statements Other information
Strategic report 
Operational review
Strategic report 
Financial review
Strategic report 
Strategic review
Strategic report 
Overview Termination policy
It is the Company's policy that the Executive Chairman has letters 
of appointment and/or service contracts terminable on one month's 
notice by either party at any time, and by payment of one month's fees 
in lieu of notice.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors do not 
provide for any compensation for loss of office beyond payments 
in lieu of notice, and therefore the maximum amount payable upon 
termination of these letters is limited to one month's payment.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
All Directors' service contracts and letters of appointment are available 
for inspection at the Company's registered office during normal 
business hours and at the Annual General Meeting (for 15 minutes prior 
to and during the meeting). 
A summary of the key terms of the letters of appointment for all Directors 
are set out below:
Executive Chairman
Jean-Paul Luksic
Date of letter  
of appointment
12 June 2013
Notice period One month's written notice
Remuneration - Annual base salary for role as Chairman of the Board
- Reimbursement of expenses
-  Entitled to receive additional fees for chairing or serving  
as a member of any Board Committee
Termination Termination can occur at any time and at the discretion  
of either party upon one month's written notice
Jean-Paul Luksic also has a contract for services with both the 
Antofagasta Railway Company plc dated 1 April 2008 and Antofagasta 
Minerals dated 2 November 2004. Neither contract has an expiry date, 
but each of them can be terminated by either party on one month's 
notice. The amounts payable under these contracts for services are 
denominated in Chilean pesos and, as is typical for employment 
contracts or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with 
Chilean inflation, and are also reviewed periodically in line with the 
Company's policy on Directors' pay.
Non-Executive Directors 
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment with the 
Company. The Company has a policy of putting all Directors forward 
for re-election at each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the 
Code. Under the terms of the letters, if shareholders do not confirm a 
Non-Executive Director's appointment, the appointment will terminate 
with immediate effect. In other circumstances, the appointment may 
be terminated by either party on one month's prior written notice. 
These letters require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that 
they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
Name Remuneration Date of last 
re-appointment
Notice period 
William Hayes
The letters of 
appointment do 
not provide for any 
compensation for  
loss of office beyond 
payments in lieu  
of notice, and  
therefore the  
maximum amount 
payable upon 
termination of these 
appointments is  
limited to one  
month's fees.
12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Gonzalo 
Men ndez
12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Ram n Jara 12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Juan Claro 12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Hugo Dryland 12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Tim Baker 12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Manuel Lino Silva 
De Sousa-Oliveira 
(Ollie Oliveira)
12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Nelson Pizarro 12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
Andr nico Luksic 12 June 2013 One month's 
written notice
There is also a contract between Antofagasta Minerals and Asesor as 
Ram n F Jara Ltda (formerly E.I.R.L.) dated 2 November 2004 for 
the provision of advisory services by Ram n Jara which does not 
have an expiry date but can be terminated by either party on one 
month's notice. The amounts payable under this contract for services 
are denominated in Chilean pesos and, as is typical for employment 
contracts or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with 
Chilean inflation, and are also reviewed periodically in line with the 
Company's policy on Directors' pay.
Remuneration report
Governance 94 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Company 
When the Committee reviews the Executive Chairman's salary annually, 
it also reviews pay conditions across the rest of the Group. This is set 
in the context of very different working environments and geographies 
and is therefore not a mechanical process. However, this acts as one 
input into the pay review process. The Committee does not currently 
use any other remuneration comparison metrics when determining 
the quantum and structure of the Executive Chairman's remuneration.
The Committee does not consult with employees in connection with 
the policy on the Executive Chairman's remuneration. 
Remuneration Policy for other employees
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group 
based on the principle that reward should be achieved for delivery 
of the business strategy. A significant proportion of the Executive 
Committee members' remuneration is in the form of variable pay. 
The Executive Committee is eligible to participate in the Long-
Term Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Plan, which are both 
subject to performance criteria aligned with the Group's strategy. 
The remuneration structure for other Group employees varies 
according to their role, location and working environment. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders and 
sell-side analysts as well as potential shareholders. This communication 
is managed by the Investor Relations team, and includes a formal 
programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and 
analysts on developments in the Group following the announcement 
of the half-year and full-year results. The Board receives regular 
summaries and feedback in respect of the meetings held as part of the 
investor relations programme as well as receiving analysts' reports on 
the Company. The Company's Annual General Meeting is also used 
as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private 
shareholders. This ongoing dialogue allows us to respond to the needs 
and concerns of all shareholders throughout the year. 
During 2013, the Company engaged in dialogue with shareholders 
and institutional shareholder advisory bodies in relation to a number 
of topics, including the quantum of the Executive Chairman's total 
remuneration and the absence of a performance-based component 
of his remuneration. The Committee continues to believe that the 
Executive Chairman's remuneration arrangements are significantly 
aligned with those of other shareholders and that they provide a strong 
link to the Group's strategic objectives and the long-term interests of 
the Group. Taking into account the Executive Chairman's role, when 
compared with companies of a similar size, nature and complexity, 
the Committee is satisfied that the Executive Chairman's remuneration 
is both fair and reasonable. The Executive Chairman's total pay level 
is towards the lower end of FTSE 100 Executive Director levels.
The Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors' pay 
arrangements will continue to be reviewed each year in line 
with the Policy, taking into account the views of all of the 
Company's shareholders.
Governance
Antofagasta plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95
Financial statements Other information
Strategic report 
Operational review
Strategic report 
Financial review
Strategic report 
Strategic review
Strategic report 
Overview Remuneration and T alent Committee
Membership and meeting attendance
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Tim Baker (Chairman) 7 7
William Hayes 7 7
Juan Claro 6 7
Key activities in 2013
Commissioned an externally facilitated review of the 
effectiveness of the Remuneration and Talent Committee.
Commissioned an externally facilitated review of 
the Chairman's and Directors' remuneration levels 
against benchmarks.
Commissioned an externally facilitated review of senior 
managers' remuneration levels against benchmarks.
Reviewed the remuneration disclosure requirements set out 
in the new regulations introduced by the UK government.
Approved the amount of Executive Committee members' 
remuneration, including performance under the Annual 
Bonus Plan.
Reviewed the operation of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, 
including grants of additional awards. 
Reviewed the Group's Talent Management Strategy and 
staff succession policy.
Oversaw the internal review and reorganisation of the 
Group's organisational structure.
Oversaw the alignment of the 2013 human resources plan 
and calendar to the business strategy and planning cycle.
Oversaw the review of all of the Group's main human 
resources guidelines, policies and procedures.
Oversaw the standardisation of compensation practices 
across the Group.
Reviewed the Group's 2014 compensation structure.
Reviewed the 2012 Directors' Remuneration report prior 
to its approval by the Board and subsequent approval by 
shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee is responsible for setting the Company's Remuneration 
Policy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors. 
If the Committee recommends changes to the Executive Chairman's 
remuneration, these are submitted for approval by a committee of 
the Board comprising of the Company's independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and 
approving the remuneration of the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and 
determining his compensation for the performance-related elements 
of his compensation. The remuneration for the other members of 
the Executive Committee including awards granted under the Long-
Term Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Plan and the performance 
targets for each plan are reviewed by the Antofagasta Minerals CEO 
and recommended to the Committee for approval. The Committee 
is responsible for monitoring the level and structure of remuneration 
of the Executive Committee, reviewing and approving performance-
related compensation, reviewing succession planning for the Executive 
Committee, reviewing any major changes in compensation policies 
applying across the Group's companies that have a significant long-
term impact on labour costs, and reviewing compensation and talent 
management strategies. The Committee's terms of reference are 
available on the Company's website - www.antofagasta.co.uk. 
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the 
Board as a whole. No Director participates in the determination of 
his own remuneration.
Committee review
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was undertaken by 
Independent Audit Limited in January 2013. This involved a review 
of the Committee's papers, observation of a meeting and interviews 
with 20 Directors, managers and external advisors.
Following discussion of the report in March 2013, the Committee has 
worked with the newly appointed Vice-President of Human Resources 
to introduce a number of changes to enhance its effectiveness. 
These included enhanced liaison with the Committee's external 
advisors, an increased focus on talent development and succession 
planning, improved information flow and more informed reporting 
to the full Board on the Committee's deliberations.
The Committee has monitored implementation of its development plan 
throughout the year and is confident that good progress is being made, 
particularly in the area of overseeing talent development.
Advisors to the Committee
During the year, the Committee received advice from Towers Watson. 
Towers Watson is the Group's existing remuneration consultant 
(appointed by the Committee) and provided advice to the Committee 
on matters under consideration by the Committee during the year, 
including updates on legislative requirements and market practice. 
Towers Watson also performed a benchmarking review of Directors' 
remuneration. Towers Watson's fees for this work were charged in 
accordance with normal billing practices and amounted to $177 ,383. 
Towers Watson is widely recognised as an independent global 
professional services firm and the Committee is satisfied that the 
advice provided was objective and independent and that no conflict 
of interest arose as a result of these services and that Towers Watson 
has no other connection with the Company. 
Remuneration report
Governance 96 The Company's legal advisors, Clifford Chance, also provided 
advice on the operation of the Group's Long-Term Incentive Plan, 
the new remuneration reporting requirements and other legal advice 
during 2013.
The Committee also received assistance from the Executive Chairman, 
although he does not participate in discussions relating to the setting 
of his own remuneration. The Committee in particular consulted with 
the Executive Chairman and received recommendations from him in 
respect of Executive Committee remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting
The table below displays the voting results on the remuneration report 
at the 2013 AGM:
Resolution
Votes for 1,016,928,786
99.06%
Votes against 9,599,672
0.94%
Votes cast as a 
percentage of Issued 
Share Capital
86.56%
Votes withheld 48,928,791
The considerable vote in favour of the Remuneration report confirms 
the strong support the Group has had from shareholders regarding 
the remuneration arrangements and the performance of the Company 
over the past year.
2013 Remuneration
Executive Chairman
The Executive Chairman receives a fixed base fee and the provision 
of benefits typical for such a position. As there is no element of variable 
remuneration payable to the Executive Chairman, the outcomes 
described below are fixed at the beginning of the year and do not 
vary with performance. However, the Executive Chairman's interest 
in the Company's shares (both via a company controlled by him and 
as a member of the Luksic family) provides alignment with other 
shareholders and aligns his interests with the long-term success 
of the Group. 
As was the case in 2012, there was no change in the fees payable 
to the Executive Chairman in his role as a Director of Antofagasta plc 
between 2012 and 2013 or his role as director of any subsidiary 
companies. The single figure calculations in this report include 
payments for subsidiary board services and payments made to the 
Executive Chairman under his service contracts, which include an 
annual adjustment for Chilean inflation as is typical for employment 
contracts or contracts for services in Chile. Because some of the 
Executive Chairman's fees are paid in Chilean pesos, they are subject 
to annual exchange rate movements when reported in US dollars.
Non-Executive Directors
As was the case in 2012, there has been no change to the level 
of Antofagasta plc Board fees in 2013. The base Non-Executive 
Director's fee in respect of the Antofagasta plc Board remains at 
$130,000. Given the core role which Antofagasta Minerals plays in 
the management of the mining operations and projects, and that 
Antofagasta Minerals represents the large majority of the Group's 
business, all Antofagasta plc Directors also serve as Directors of 
the Antofagasta Minerals Board. The fee payable to Directors of 
Antofagasta Minerals remains at $130,000 for members of the Board 
and $260,000 for the Chairman. Therefore, the combined base fees 
payable to Non-Executive Directors of both Antofagasta plc and 
Antofagasta Minerals amount to $260,000 per annum. 
The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually. 
In 2013, the Committee commissioned Towers Watson to perform 
an independent review and benchmarking of Non-Executive Directors' 
fees. In light of review, the Board is satisfied that the current fee 
levels and structure are aligned with the Group's international peers. 
The Board are not recommending any change this year, but will 
continue to review fee levels from time-to-time in accordance with 
the Policy. 
In addition to Board fees, Directors also receive fees for their 
contributions to Board sub-committees during the year. This table 
summarises Antofagasta plc Board Committee fees payable in 2013 
and 2012, which were unchanged.
 
Role
Additional fees 
($000)
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 20
Audit and Risk Committee Member 10
Remuneration and Talent Committee 
Chairman
16
Remuneration and Talent Committee 
Member
10
Nomination Committee Chairman 10
Nomination Committee Member 4
Sustainability and Stakeholder 
Management Committee Chairman
16
Sustainability and Stakeholder 
Management Committee Member
10
The Remuneration Policy does not allow for the payment of variable 
remuneration to the Executive Chairman or Non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee does not anticipate any changes to the implementation 
of the Policy during 2014. 
Governance
Antofagasta plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97
Financial statements Other information
Strategic report 
Operational review
Strategic report 
Financial review
Strategic report 
Strategic review
Strategic report 
Overview Audited information
Single figure table
The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out below in US dollars. Amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates 
for the relevant year, which are set out in Note 34 to the financial statements. 
As explained on page 97 , Antofagasta plc Directors may also be appointed as directors of subsidiary companies and joint ventures within the 
Group and receive fees for these specific roles in addition to their Antofagasta plc and Antofagasta Minerals Board fees. These additional fees 
are included within the amounts attributable to the Directors within the table of Directors' remuneration below.
As explained in the Remuneration Policy on pages 91 to 95, Directors do not receive pensions or performance-related pay and are not eligible 
to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Base salary and fees Benefits
7
Total remuneration 
2013 
$000
2012 
$000
2013 
$000
2012 
$000
2013 
$000
2012 
$000
Jean-Paul Luksic
1
 3,575  3,524  40  74 3,615  3,598 
William Hayes 366 366 - - 366 366 
Gonzalo Men ndez 338 336 - - 338 336 
Ram n Jara
2
1,044 1,014 4 4 1,048 1,018 
Guillermo Luksic
3
- 195 - - - 195 
Juan Claro 300 333 - - 300 333 
Hugo Dryland 260 260 - - 260 260 
Tim Baker 296 296 - - 296 296 
Ollie Oliveira
4
270 269 - - 270 269 
Nelson Pizarro
5
260 115 - - 260 115 
Andr nico Luksic
6
192 - - - 192 -
6,902 6,708 44 79 6,946 6,786 
1 
 During 2013, remuneration of $1,010,000 for the provision of services by Jean-Paul Luksic was paid to Goldbeam Finance Limited (2012 - $1,010,000). This amount is included in the amounts attributable 
to Jean-Paul Luksic of $3,575,000 (2012 - $3,524,000). The benefits expense represents the provision of car usage (terminated on 29 April 2013) and life, accident and health insurance for Jean-Paul Luksic.
2 
 During 2013, remuneration of $646,000 (2012 - $641,000) for the provision of services by Ram n Jara was paid to Asesor as Ram n F Jara Ltda. This amount is included in the amounts attributable to 
Ram n Jara of $1,044,000 (2012 - $1,014,000). The benefits expense represents the provision of accident insurance to Ram n Jara. 
3 
 Guillermo Luksic forewent his fees from 1 October 2012 until his death in April 2013. Following his death in April 2013, proceeds of  500,000 received from a life insurance policy maintained by the Group 
for Directors and certain executives were paid across to Guillermo Luksic's estate.
4 
Fees payable in respect of Ollie Oliveira's service as a Director are paid to Greengrove Capital LLP, a partnership in which Ollie Oliveira is a partner. 
5 
Nelson Pizarro was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2012 and the amounts shown above for 2012 represent fees payable from this date. 
6 
Andr nico Luksic was appointed to the Board on 9 April 2013 and the amounts shown above for 2013 represent fees payable from this date. 
7 
All Directors are covered by Directors' and Officers' Life and Travel insurance policies generally maintained by the Group. 
Unaudited information
Directors' interests
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2013 had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
Ordinary shares of 5p each
31 December 
2013
1 January 
2013
Executive Chairman Jean-Paul Luksic
1
41,963,110 41,963, 1 10
Non-Executive Director Ram n Jara
2
5,260 5,260
1 
 Jean-Paul Luksic's interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity which he controls. 
2 
Ram n Jara's interest relates to shares held by a close family member.
Remuneration report
Governance 98 There have been no changes to the Directors' interests in the shares of 
the Company between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report.
The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the 
year other than the interests set out in the table above. No Director had 
any material interest in any contract (other than a service contract) with 
the Company or its subsidiary undertakings during the year other than 
in the ordinary course of business.
The Group does not currently have any director shareholding guidelines 
because the Executive Chairman, as the only Executive on the Board, 
already holds an interest in the Company's shares. 
The Executive Chairman is not eligible for any short-term or long-term 
incentive awards and therefore does not own any shares that have 
resulted from the achievement of performance conditions.
Executive Committee remuneration
The remuneration arrangements in place for the Executive Committee 
have been structured to align remuneration with performance, the 
Group's strategic objectives and shareholders' interests. The Executive 
Committee is eligible to receive a combination of base salary and other 
benefits as well as variable remuneration in the form of an annual cash 
bonus and conditional cash awards based on the price of ordinary 
shares of the Company granted pursuant to the Group's Long-Term 
Incentive Plan. 
The performance components of variable remuneration are selected 
to incentivise the delivery of the business strategy, reward Group and 
individual performance and motivate the Executive Committee. 
Annual Bonus Plan
Members of the Executive Committee are eligible to receive cash 
awards under the Annual Bonus Plan based on Group and individual 
performance. The bonus plan focuses on the delivery of annual financial 
and non-financial targets which are designed to align remuneration 
with the Company's strategy and create a platform for sustainable 
future performance.
The performance criteria for the Annual Bonus Plan are set annually. 
The average maximum available award for the Executive Committee 
under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan, which would reflect maximum 
individual and Group performance, is 71% of base salary. In 2013 the 
average award for the Executive Committee was approximately 42% 
of base salary. Individual award levels are calibrated at the conclusion 
of each annual performance period as part of a review of performance 
against the criteria set for the year to ensure that performance targets 
remain stretching and that high or maximum payments under each plan 
are only received for exceptional performance. Individual award levels are 
also reviewed by the Committee. 
In 2013, the performance criteria for the Executive Committee under the 
Annual Bonus Plan were defined against quantitative criteria as follows:
   business results, including profit, production, operating expenditure 
and capital expenditure;
   business development, including the execution of growth projects 
and exploration and development; and 
   sustainability, including performance against measurable lost time 
injury frequency rates and environmental and social indices.
The choice of these criteria, and their respective weightings reflect 
the Committee's belief that any incentive compensation should be 
tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas 
of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence. 
Long-term Incentive Plan
The Company introduced a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP ) at the 
end of 2011. Eligibility to participate in the LTIP is determined each year 
on an individual basis and all members of the Executive Committee 
currently participate. The first awards under the LTIP were granted 
on 29 December 2011 and awards have since been granted annually. 
Under the rules of the LTIP , Directors are not eligible to participate 
in the LTIP . 
Under the LTIP , participants are eligible to receive phantom  share 
awards (conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a 
specified number of the Company's ordinary shares), which are paid in 
cash upon vesting and may be made to participants based on the price 
of the Company's ordinary shares.
Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP are split between Restricted 
Share Awards (RSAs ) and Performance Share Awards (PSAs ). 
The RSAs are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference 
to a specified number of the Company's ordinary shares subject to 
the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the 
RSAs vest. The PSAs are conditional rights to receive cash payment 
by reference to a specified number of the Company's ordinary shares 
subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the 
relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the 
PSAs vest. 
The PSAs granted in 2013 will be measured over a three-year 
performance period based on the following performance conditions:
   total shareholder return relative to the Euromoney Global 
Mining Index; 
   earnings levels;
   growth in the Group's Resources and Reserves; and
   performance against measurable criteria for project execution, 
development projects, sustainability and safety.
Remuneration structure 
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration arrangements in place 
for the Executive Committee are linked to performance, appropriately 
stretching and aligned to the business strategy. Variable remuneration 
is a core component of Executive Committee remuneration and up to 
62% of the Executive Committee's total annual remuneration may be 
achieved under the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP .
Comparison of overall performance 
and remuneration
The following graph shows the Company's performance compared 
to the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and the Euromoney 
Global Mining Index over a five-year period, measured by total 
shareholder return (as defined below). The FTSE All-Share Index has 
been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly 
based index to which the Company belongs and which relates to the 
London Stock Exchange, the market where the Company's ordinary 
shares are traded. 
Governance
Antofagasta plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99
Financial statements Other information
Strategic report 
Operational review
Strategic report 
Financial review
Strategic report 
Strategic review
Strategic report 
Overview Total shareholder return performance in comparison with the 
Euromoney Global Mining Index is one of the performance criteria 
for Performance Share Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP 
as described above.
Total shareholder return is calculated to show a theoretical growth 
in the value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that 
dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing 
price applicable on the ex-dividend date. Total shareholder return for 
the FTSE All-Share Index and the Euromoney Global Mining Index 
is calculated by aggregating the returns of all individual constituents 
of those indices at the end of the five-year period. 
Antofagasta FTSE All Share Index Euromoney Global Mining Index
DEC 2010 DEC 2009 DEC 2008 DEC 2011 DEC 2012 DEC 2013
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
*Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period
 Total Return Basis Index - 31 December 2008 = 100
 Source: Datastream.
T otal Shareholder Return*
Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All-Share Index 
and Euromoney Global Mining Index %
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Single figure remuneration of 
Executive Chairman $'000
3,184 3,330 3,521 3,598 3,615
Actual % increase 0.5%
Single figure fees of 
Executive Chairman
3,116 3,232 3,438 3,524 3,575
Actual % increase 1.4%
Single figure benefits of 
Executive Chairman
67 98 83 74 40
Actual % increase (46)%
Note: The Executive Chairman is not eligible for any variable remuneration and this table does not 
therefore include variable remuneration. 
Taking into account adjustments for Chilean inflation under the 
Executive Chairman's service contracts, the exchange rate impact of 
Chilean peso denominated fees and the reduction in benefits provided, 
the total remuneration paid to the Executive Chairman was 0.5% 
higher in 2013. This comprised of a 1.4% increase in fees and a 46% 
reduction in benefits. The equivalent average percentage change for 
Group employees as a whole was an increase of 4.1%. This comprised 
a 4.1% increase in salaries as there was no increase in benefits for 
Group employees as a whole in 2013.
Taking into account the current economic environment, local practice 
in Chile and the UK and general themes for restraint in the market, 
the Committee feels that the decision not to increase the Executive 
Chairman's fees in 2013 was fair.
Relative importance of remuneration spend
The table below shows the total spend on employee remuneration, 
the levels of distributions to shareholders and the taxation cost in 2012 
and 2013.
Remuneration spend
 %
    
  2012 2013 change
A Employee 
 remuneration
1
 409.2 440.9 8%
B Distribution 
 to shareholders
2
 971.1 936.5 (4)%
C Taxation
3
  871.6 681.5 (22)%
A
A
B
B
C
C
1 
 The employee remuneration cost includes salaries, social security costs and awards under the 
Long-Term Incentive Plan, as set out in Note 8 to the financial statements.
2 
 The distributions to shareholders represent the dividends proposed in relation to the year, as set 
out in Note 12 to the financial statements.
3 
Taxation has been shown above as this provides an indication of the contribution of the Group's 
operations in Chile to the Chilean State via its tax contributions. The taxation cost represents the 
current tax charge in respect of corporate tax, mining tax (royalty) and withholding tax, as set out 
in Note 10 to the financial statements.
This report does not disclose information in relation to the following, 
which was not relevant for the 2013 financial year:
   payments for loss of office - no such events occurred in the 2013 
financial year; 
   further details on pension arrangements - Directors do not receive 
pension benefits; and
   payments to past Directors - no such payments were made in the 
year, with the exception of the payment to the estate of Guillermo 
Luksic of the proceeds of the life insurance policy referred to on 
page 98.
Should such events occur in future, the necessary disclosures will be 
made at the appropriate time.
The Remuneration report has been approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by
Tim Baker 
Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Committee 
17 March 2014
Remuneration report
Governance 100