 Antonov plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15
Remuneration Committee Report
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration and emoluments of Executive Directors. The Committee operates under formal 
terms of reference. The Committee does not set the fees for Non-Executive Directors, these are agreed by the Chairman of the Board and 
the Chief Executive.
Executive Directors' Service Contracts
Mr. Antonov has a rolling service contract providing three months notice, while Mr. Bovell and Mr. Moore have rolling service contracts with AAT
providing six months notice. 
Remuneration and bonuses paid to Directors are shown in note 5 to the accounts.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors' contracts run for a fixed period of 12 months from the date of appointment and thereafter may be renewed or extended
by the Board, subject to the Company's policy on retirement by rotation under the Articles of Association. Non-Executive Directors are paid agreed
annual fees and are reimbursed reasonable expenses properly incurred in the discharge of their duties. The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors 
are shown in note 4 to the accounts. Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any pension arrangements or in any other employee benefits.
On 18 January 1999, the Company adopted a Non-Executive Directors share option plan. Directors' share options are as shown 
in the Directors' Report, although no new options were awarded to the Non-Executive Directors during the 2004 financial year.
Share Options
The Company adopted an executive share option scheme for the benefit of its employees generally on 21 May 1996. No options were granted to
employees or Executive Directors in 2004 under the scheme. Of all previously awarded employee share options 157,650 remained outstanding at
31 December 2004. Directors' share options are as shown in the Directors' Report.
Pension Arrangements
The Company does not operate a company pension scheme.
C. Ross
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 June 2005