 Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 77 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 77 
It is intended that this Policy Report shall take binding effect from the date of its approval at the AGM on 20 May 2014. Information on how the 
Company intends to implement the policy for the current financial year is set out in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy   
on page 84.
Future policy - Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
 to strategy  opportunity measures
Base salary
Retirement benefits
Attract and retain high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
Group's strategy. 
Reflect market value of role 
and the Director's skills, 
experience and performance.
Where the Executive Director 
also receives fees from the 
Company these will be taken 
into account when setting 
base salary.
Provide local market-
competitive retirement 
benefits.
Attract and retain high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
Group's strategy.
Reviewed annually, any increases 
typically apply from 1 February. 
When determining base salary 
levels, consideration is given to the 
following:
l salary levels paid for similar 
roles with comparable status, 
skills, and responsibility in UK 
and US energy market peers of 
comparable size and complexity;
l the competitiveness of salary 
levels against these peers; and
l performance against personal 
and corporate objectives, 
experience, and conditions 
throughout the Group.
Ability to invest in a standard 
company to a Section 401K  
plan (a US retirement plan made 
available to US employees 
generally) or a local equivalent plan 
on the same terms as for other 
employees. 
These arrangements are subject to 
limits based on US law.
Pension contribution may be paid 
into personal pension savings 
plans or paid as a separate cash 
allowance.
No prescribed maximum annual 
increase.
Salary increases to Executive 
Directors are generally within 
the guidelines for the wider 
employee population.
 
However, increases may be 
made above this level at the 
Committee's discretion to 
take account of individual 
circumstances such as:
l Increase in scope and 
responsibility;
l Increase to reflect the 
individual's development and 
performance in role (e.g. for a 
new appointment where base 
salary may be increased over 
time rather than set directly 
at the level of the previous 
incumbent or market level); 
and
l Alignment to market level.
Maximum of 25% of base salary.
No element other than base 
salary is pensionable.
None
None
Directors' Remuneration Policy Report 78 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 78 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Directors' Remuneration Report
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
   to strategy  opportunity measures 
Other benefits
Annual bonus
Performance is assessed 
using the following 
metrics:
75% of the award is 
based on financial 
measures; currently 
revenue, adjusted EBIT 
and adjusted ROCE, and 
25% of the award is 
based on strategic 
measures.
The measures and 
targets are set by 
the Committee each 
year. The measures 
that will apply for the 
2014 financial years 
are described in the 
Directors' annual 
remuneration report. 
Measures for the 
following years will 
be summarised in 
the Directors' annual 
remuneration report of 
the relevant year.
Provide local market-
competitive and cost-effective 
benefits to executives to assist 
them to carry out their duties 
effectively.
Attract and retain high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
Group's strategy.
Reward and incentivise 
the achievement of annual 
financial and strategic targets.
The Group provides a range of 
benefits which may include a 
car benefit (or cash equivalent), 
private medical insurance, 
permanent health insurance and 
life assurance. 
Additional benefits may also be 
provided in certain circumstances 
which may include relocation 
expenses, housing allowance and 
school fees. Other benefits may be 
offered if considered appropriate 
and reasonable by the Committee.
The benefits arrangements for 
executive directors are reviewed 
by the Committee periodically 
to ensure appropriateness in 
terms of the type and level of 
benefits provided. In determining 
appropriateness, the Committee 
will consider factors such as the 
director's country of residence and 
length of service, as well as local 
practices, cost and convenience.
Measures and targets are set 
annually and payout levels are 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee based on performance 
against those targets.
The Remuneration Committee 
may, in exceptional circumstances, 
amend the bonus payout 
should this not, in the view of 
the Committee, reflect overall 
business performance or individual 
contribution.
Annual bonus is payable in cash.
There are no clawback or malus 
provisions applicable to the annual  
bonus.
Set at a level which the 
Remuneration
Committee considers:
l Appropriately positioned 
against comparable roles 
in companies of a similar 
size and complexity in the 
relevant market; and
l Provides a sufficient 
level of benefit based on 
the role and individual 
circumstances, such as 
relocation.
For maximum performance: 
250% of base salary.
For on-target performance:  
125% of base salary. 
For threshold performance: 
50% of base salary.
No bonus is payable if 
performance is below 
specified threshold levels.
None.
Future policy - Executive Directors (cont'd) Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 79 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
 to strategy  opportunity measures
Long-term share 
based incentive 
plans
Historic 
Commitments
Performance is 
measured against 
growth of the Group's 
annualised adjusted 
earnings per share, 
measured over a 
minimum three year 
period.
The measures and 
targets are set by the 
Committee. 
Details of the targets 
that will apply for 
2014 are set out in 
the Directors' annual 
remuneration report.
Dependent on 
circumstances.
Motivate and reward the 
achievement of long-term 
Group financial performance in 
line with the Group's strategy 
and long-term shareholder 
returns.
Support the creation of 
shareholder value and aligns 
Executive interests with those 
of long-term shareholders.
Honour previous  
agreements.
Awards, made in the form of 
conditional shares or options, 
with vesting dependent upon 
the achievement of performance 
conditions.
Grants are typically made annually.
The Committee judges whether 
and to what extent targets have 
been met, and if an exceptional 
event occurs that causes the 
Committee to consider that the 
targets are no longer appropriate, 
the Committee may adjust them.
Awards vest subject to continued 
employment and performance 
measured after three financial 
years and may vest earlier in 
good leaver circumstances or 
in connection with a change of 
control ot other corporate event  
in accordance with the plan rules.
The Committee may adjust the 
number of shares that vest to 
ensure the basis of calculation to 
ensure it is fair and consistent.
Awards may also be adjusted in 
the event of a variation of capital,  
in accordance with the plan rules.
There are no clawback or malus 
provisions applicable to the long-
term incentive plans.
Where commitments have been 
given prior to the 2014 AGM, as 
a matter of policy APR Energy will 
honour those commitments in 
accordance with their terms. The 
only such current commitments 
are share awards made and 
disclosed to shareholders in 
previous years.
Awards vest on the following 
basis:
l  Threshold' performance: 
30% of the maximum 
shares awarded;
l  Maximum' performance: 
100% of the shares 
awarded.
With straight-line vesting 
between performance levels.
Current annual award levels 
for Executive Directors range 
between 100% - 300% of base 
salary at the time of grant.
Overall individual limit of 400% 
of base salary, in exceptional 
circumstances.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to make awards 
up to the individual limit and, 
would expect to consult with 
significant investors if awards 
were to be made routinely 
above current levels.
Dependent on  
circumstances.
Future policy - Executive Directors (cont'd) 80 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
Chief Executive Officer
Minimum On-T arget Maximum
Fixed Annual Variable Long-T erm variable
$738,000
$2,345,000
$3,951,000
$
Fees None Reward individuals for  
fulfilling the relevant role.
Attract and retain individuals 
with the skills, experience and 
knowledge to contribute to an 
effective Board.
Fees are reviewed periodically.
The fee structure is as follows:
l The Chairman is paid a single, 
consolidated fee;
l The Non-Executive Directors 
are paid a basic fee, 
plus additional fees for 
membership or chairmanship 
of Board Committees or further 
responsibilities (e.g. SID);
l Fees are currently paid in cash, 
although the Company may 
introduce a facility whereby  
Non-Executive Directors can elect 
to receive a portion of their fees 
in APR Energy shares, based on 
open market value at the time.
Set at a level which:
l Reflects the commitment 
and contribution that 
is expected from the 
Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors; and
l Is appropriately positioned 
against comparable roles in 
companies of a similar size 
and complexity among UK 
and US energy companies 
of a similar size and 
international scope.
Actual fee levels are disclosed 
in the Directors' annual 
remuneration report for the 
relevant financial year.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors' fees
As noted above, performance measures apply to the Annual bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). These were chosen and targets are set as follows:
  Annual bonus - the specific metrics and their weightings are set by the Committee in the light of the Board's assessment of the strategic imperatives facing the
Company and the budgets and other operational plans adopted by the Board to best address both short and longer-term imperatives. Management proposes 
suitable metrics (which are quantitative wherever possible) and levels of performance to form the threshold, on-target and maximum levels of attainment. The 
Committee then assesses whether achievement of these is appropriately aligned with shareholders' interests, and whether the reward that would accrue to the 
Executive Directors would be justifiable. They also examine whether the metric is consistent with the requirements of prudent risk management (and does not itself 
create perverse incentives) and good governance.
  LTIP - after consulting with shareholders in 2012, it was determined that the LTIP plan was fully aligned with the strategic imperatives facing the Company, could 
easily be adapted to changing circumstances and so represented a strong means of assessing value-creating activities. By including a longer-term assessment of 
annualised earnings per share growth over a minimum of three years, a clear incentive is created to manage the business for value over the longer term. Details of 
outstanding awards under the Company's LTIPs are set out on page 118. 
Illustrative performance scenarios
The above chart provides an illustration of the operation of the 
remuneration policy and shows the levels of remuneration in US 
dollars that would be received by the Chief Executive Officer for 
different performance levels in accordance with the Directors' 
remuneration policy for 2014. 
 
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
 to strategy  opportunity measures
Fixed remuneration only based on latest known salary, 
retirement benefits and other benefits, as shown in single 
figure table. 
 Base  Benefits Retirement Total
$'000s salary   benefits fixed
CEO 714 14 10 738
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if 
performance was in line with the on-target scenario:
l Annual bonus pays out at 125% of salary for on-target 
performance.
l A LTIP award with a face value of 100% (in line with the 
normal  grant policy) pays out 30% of maximum, being 
threshold level of vesting.
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if 
performance was in line with the maximum scenario:
l Annual bonus pays out at 250% of salary for maximum 
performance.
l A LTIP award with a face value of 200% (in line with the 
maximum  possible award under the plan rules) pays out 
at 100% of maximum.
Minimum Maximum On-Target
The chart show three scenarios: (a) minimum, (b) on-target and (c) 
maximum. In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions 
have been made:
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
100% 31% 19%
38%
45%
31%
36%
Directors' Remuneration Report
Future policy - Non-Executive Directors Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 81 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Non-Executive Director Fees
The Chairman is paid a single consolidated fee per annum. The 
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus fees reflecting 
additional responsibilities including: Senior Independent Director, 
membership and chairmanship of Board Committees. In addition, the 
Committee retains the authority to pay additional fees, up to  20,000 
for independent work outside of the scope of the Board, subject to 
approval by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The annual rates for Non-Executive Director fees, effective 1 January 
2014, are shown in the table on page 83.
The Company encourages the Non-Executive Directors to build up 
a holding in the Company's shares. The Committee may introduce 
a facility whereby Non-Executive Directors may elect to receive a 
portion of their fees in Ordinary Shares of the Company, purchased 
on a regular basis in the market.
Letters of appointment 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed 
pursuant to a letter of appointment.
The contractual arrangements for the current Chief Executive Officer 
comprises a service agreement with APR Energy LLC and a letter 
of appointment with the Company. Under the terms of his service 
agreement the Chief Executive Officer is entitled to a termination 
equal to twelve months salary. Where appropriate, it will continue 
to be the Company's policy that an Executive Director may have a 
service agreement with the relevant operating subsidiary in addition 
to appropriate contractual arrangements with the Company.
The details of the Directors' letters of appointment with the Company 
are summarised in the table below:
Name of Director Date of letter Notice
 of appointment  period
Mike Fairey (Chairman) 17 December 2009 12 months
John Campion 13 June 2011 12 months
Matthew Allen  25 January 2012 12 months
Gregory Bowes 13 June 2011 3 months
Edward Hawkes 12 January 2010 12 months
Jim Hughes  25 January 2012 12 months
Denise Kingsmill 17 December 2009 12 months
Haresh Jaisinghani  25 January 2012 12 months
Shonaid Jemmett-Page  23 July 2012 12 months
Vipul T andon 13 June 2011 3 months
Terms of appointment of Directors
Executive Directors' service contracts are carefully considered by 
the Committee. The Committee considers that a rolling contract 
with a notice period of 12 months is appropriate. A longer initial 
period of notice of up to 36 months, may be used where considered 
appropriate in order to secure the recruitment of an external 
candidate.
The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is normally for a fixed 
term of three years, during which time the appointment may be 
terminated by the Board, or by the Company's shareholders on 
notice.
Exit payments
In the event of early termination, an Executive Director may receive 
compensation up to a maximum of basic salary, retirement benefit 
entitlement and other contractual benefits over the notice period. 
The Committee will consider mitigation where appropriate, having 
regard to the circumstances.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus. Executive 
Directors' may receive a bonus in respect of the financial year of 
cessation, based on performance against pre-determined targets. 
Where an Executive Director leaves by reason of death, disability or 
ill-heath they may receive a pro-rata bonus for the year of cessation.
The treatment of leavers under the Company's long-term incentive 
plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans. The Committee 
will determine when awards vest and the period during which awards 
may be exercised.
Performance shares lapse if the participant leaves employment in 
case of termination for cause or resignation. In other cases, normally 
including death and ill health, injury or disability, redundancy and 
retirement, the Committee may determine that awards vest at the end 
of the performance period and are pro-rated for time. Performance 
conditions would apply. However, the Committee has the discretion 
to allow the award to vest on cessation of employment (on a pro-rata 
basis or otherwise) if, having regard to progress towards meeting the 
performance conditions at that point. 
The Committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes 
there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that. For example, 
it can be in the interest of the Company for the Board to proactively 
organise succession and manage an executive's departure. When 
determining the treatment of outstanding awards in those cases, the 
Committee will take into account the executive's level of performance 
and contribution to the transition.
No compensation is payable to Non-Executive Directors on leaving 
office.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be 
set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration 
policy in force at the time of appointment. The Committee may offer 
a package that will be sufficient to attract and retain the high-calibre 
talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy. The 
Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements 
when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company 
and, therefore, shareholders. The Committee will seek to ensure 
that no more is paid than is necessary. Any buyout payments 
would be intended to be no more than is necessary to compensate 
for remuneration lost due to leaving the former employer and 
would reflect the delivery mechanism (i.e. cash, shares, options), 
time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that 
remuneration. 
The following elements may be considered by the Committee for 
inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director, in 
addition to the policy elements set out in the table on pages 77 to 79. 82 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Initial long-term 
incentive award
Initial annual 
bonus 
opportunity
Compensation for 
forfeited awards
Sign on awards
Relocation costs
An initial long-term incentive award may be 
made, which may be higher than the maximum 
opportunity, as set out on page 79.
The Committee will ensure:
- The award is linked to the achievement of 
appropriate and challenging performance 
targets.
- The award will be forfeited if the performance 
and continued employment conditions are 
not achieved.
The initial annual bonus opportunity may be set 
higher than the approved policy.
The Committee will ensure the award is 
linked to the achievement of appropriate and 
challenging performance targets.
The terms of any compensation will be 
determined by taking into account the terms of 
any forfeited awards, including:
- Performance achieved or likely to be 
achieved;
- The proportion of performance/vesting period 
remaining; and
- The form and timing of the original award.
In certain limited circumstances, for example 
in order to compensate for a loss at a previous 
employer other than for forfeited awards, the 
Committee may make a one-off sign-on award 
as part of the initial package. 
The Committee retains the discretion to 
determine, based on the circumstances at the 
time, whether this would be in cash or shares, 
whether or not performance conditions or an 
additional holding period would apply.
Where necessary, the Company will pay 
appropriate relocation costs, in line with 
standard practice. The Committee will seek to 
ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Element Approach Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will 
be determined in accordance with the policy set out in the policy 
table.
Consultation with our employees
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees 
on the Directors' remuneration policy, the Committee considers 
the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and 
employment conditions for the broader employee population when 
determining remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Statement of consideration of employment condi-
tions elsewhere within the Group
The remuneration policy for executives reflects the overriding 
remuneration philosophy and principles of the wider Group. 
When determining the remuneration policy and arrangements for 
Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee considers pay 
and employment conditions across the Group which operates in a 
number of different countries and has employees who perform a 
diverse range of jobs. The overall aim is that:
l employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, are paid by 
reference to the market rate;
l the APR Group promotes and offers internal promotion 
opportunities;
l the Group offers employment conditions which are commensurate 
with applicable laws where the Group does business; and
l the Group offers a range of benefits depending on the employee 
location including retirement savings plans, flexible benefits, paid 
annual leave, and healthcare insurance.
As mentioned in the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, the Company has continued to seek 
to align the long-term interests of shareholders, the Management 
Team (including the Chief Executive Officer) and other employees in 
the Group by significantly increasing participation in the Company's 
Share Award Plan 2012 - with participation now cascaded to all 
levels of the Group (and with approximately 130 total participants).
The Committee seeks to encourage greater employee ownership 
and is considering the introduction of arrangements whereby 
employees would be able to participate in a US tax qualifying 
employee share purchase plan, a UK tax qualifying Share Incentive 
Plan and/or a UK tax qualifying Sharesave Plan (or equivalent plans 
tailored to reflect tax and legal considerations in other relevant 
jurisdictions), offering an opportunity to acquire shares on beneficial 
terms. It is envisaged that participation in such plans may be 
offered to as many employees as practicable, up to the relevant 
statutory limits. In common with most plans of this type, it is not 
anticipated that performance conditions will apply.
The Company continues to review and evolve its medium-term 
strategic plan. The Committee will seek to align the remuneration 
of key senior management, excluding Executive Directors, to the 
successful delivery of stretching performance targets in support of 
this plan. The key difference from remuneration across the wider 
Group will be an increased emphasis on performance related pay. 
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee is committed to an ongoing 
dialogue with shareholders and seeks the views of the Company's 
largest shareholders when any major changes are being made 
to remuneration arrangements. The Committee notes that 
An enhanced initial notice period, sign-on awards or increased initial 
annual bonus or long-term incentive award opportunities would only 
be made available in exceptional circumstances.
APR Energy plc is required to set out the maximum amount of 
variable pay which could be paid to a new Director. In order to 
provide the Company with sufficient flexibility in a recruitment 
scenario, the Committee has set this figure as 650% of base salary 
excluding compensation for forfeited awards. This represents the 
maximum annual bonus (250%) and the maximum LTIP award 
(400%) in exceptional circumstances.
This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional 
circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, 
stretching targets would need to be met, over both one year (for the 
annual bonus) and at least three-year (for long-term incentive plan) 
performance periods.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms.
Directors' Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 83 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
shareholders may not speak with a single voice, but will seek takes into account the views of significant shareholders when formulating and 
implementing the policy.
When the last major review of remuneration occurred, the Committee consulted with a number of the Company's major institutional 
shareholders (equating to an aggregate shareholding in excess of 50%), (including those represented on the Board) in relation to the proposed 
changes. Those consulted were altogether supportive of the proposed changes to the Directors' remuneration arrangements. 
At the 2013 AGM, shareholders voted more than 98% in favour of the advisory remuneration vote.
Payments in exceptional circumstances
In truly unforeseen and exceptional circumstances, the remuneration committee retains the discretion to make emergency payments which 
might not otherwise be covered by this Policy. An example of such an exceptional circumstance could be the untimely death of a director, 
requiring another director to take on an interim role until a permanent replacement is found. Any such event and the basis for such payments 
will be announced on a timely basis to shareholders via a regulatory information service announcement and the Company's website.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the 2014 financial year
Components of remuneration - Executive Directors
Effective from 1 February 2014, the base salary for the Chief Executive Officer increased 5% to $714,000. Retirement and other benefits are in 
accordance with those stated in the policy table, and are in line with 2013.
There is no change in the maximum percentage opportunity under the annual bonus plan. The Committee determined that the performance 
measures applicable for the 2014 annual bonus are: 75% financial based (Revenue: 20%; Adjusted EBIT : 20%; Adjusted ROCE: 35%) and 25% 
qualitative based on strategic performance measures, unchanged from 2013. T argets for 2014 are not disclosed because they are considered 
to be commercially sensitive.
There is no change in the maximum LTIP opportunity for the Chief Executive Officer and targets remain unchanged from 2013. It is expected 
that awards will be made following the publication of the Annual Report.
Annualised Adjusted EPS growth   Performance level Vesting (%)
 Maximum >11% 100%
 Threshold 4% 30%
 Below threshold <4% 0%
Awards will vest on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum.
Components of remuneration - Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Director fee schedule for 2014, effective from 1 January 2014, is shown below:
Position Annual fee ( '000s) 
Chairman 130 
Non-Executive Director 70 
Additional responsibilities:  
Senior Independent Director 20 
Chairman of a Board Committee 10 
Membership of a Board Committee 5  84 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Annual Report on Remuneration
This section provides the details of the actual payments and awards to Directors who served during the year. Information contained in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration has, where indicated, been audited by the Group's external independent auditors.
Single total figure of remuneration
The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 31 December 2012 and 2013.
Audited
 '000 Salary / Benefits
1
 Retirement  Annual Long-term  T otal
 Fees  benefits bonus   incentives
2,3
  
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013  2012
Executive Directors
John Campion 432 166 9 9 7 7 581 179 - - 1,028 361
    
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Fairey  90 90 - - - - - - - 80 90 170
Matthew Allen  70 65 - - - - - - - - 70 65
Gregory Bowes 70 70 - - - - - - - - 70 70
Edward Hawkes 70 70 - - - - - - - - 70 70
Jim Hughes  70 65 - - - - - - - - 70 65
Denise Kingsmill 70 70 - - - - - - - 80 70 150
Haresh Jaisinghani  70 65 - - - - - - - - 70 65
Shonaid Jemmett-Page  70 32 - - - - - - - - 70 32
Vipul Tandon 70 70 - - - - - - - - 70 70
1  Benefits include private medical insurance and life assurance.
2  Represents the value of long-term incentive plans where the performance period ended within the financial year. 
3  As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, Mike Fairey and Denise Kingsmill each subscribed for their remaining 10,000 matching shares during 
2012. The share price on the date of vesting was  7.98.
Additional notes to the single total figure of remuneration 
Base salary
In 2013, the Chief Executive Officer was entitled to total annual base salary of $680,000 per annum, inclusive of a fee in respect of membership 
of the Company's Board. Base salary increased from effective 1 February 2013; reflecting the outcome of the 2012 Remuneration review, which 
identified that the Chief Executive Officer's base salary was significantly behind those of market peers, resulting in an adjustment to reflect 
median peer salary.
In 2012, the Chief Executive Officer was entitled to total annual basic remuneration of $450,000, comprising a fee of  70,000 as a member 
of the Board, and a salary under his employment contract with APR Energy, LLC (a subsidiary of the Company) of $380,000 per annum. In 
recognition of the challenging financial year and organisational restructuring, the Chief Executive Officer elected to cease to accept his salary, 
resulting in an actual salary of  165,627 being received.
Benefits
The benefits provided to the Chief Executive Officer included private medical insurance and life assurance.
Directors' Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 85 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Retirement benefits
The Chief Executive Officer does not receive any pension benefits other than the ability to invest in a standard company Section 401k  plan (a 
US retirement plan made available to US employees generally) subject to the applicable limits based on US law, which reflects the same terms 
as for other US employees. The level of retirement benefits in 2013 remained unchanged from 2012.
Annual bonus
For 2013, the Chief Executive Officer was eligible for an annual bonus opportunity ranging from 0% to 250% of basic remuneration, dependent 
on performance, with threshold level set at 50% and on-target level set at 125%.
The performance measures were a combination of qualitative; strategic performance targets (25%) and financial targets (75%) which were 
measured over the period of one year. Financial metrics for the purposes of the annual bonus arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer 
were Revenue (20%), Adjusted EBIT (20%), and Adjusted ROCE (35%) in 2013.
As highlighted in the Committee Chairman's letter, the Group delivered a strong financial performance in the year, with good growth across 
financial metrics which led to 109% of the bonus relating to financial measures becoming payable. 
John Campion achieved his strategic objectives for 2013, which led to 100% of the bonus relating to strategic measures becoming payable. 
Notably, achievements against strategic and individual performance measures included the completion of the acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business. Overall, this resulted in the Chief Executive Officer receiving a bonus equal to 107% of target; 53% of the maximum or 134% of salary. 
The annual bonus for 2012 was based 80% financial metrics and 20% strategic and individual performance metrics. The Chief Executive Officer 
achieved below performance for financial and strategic metrics; this resulted in 53% of target; 32% of the maximum or 63% of salary.
The table below sets out performance achieved for the 2013 bonus against targets: 
   Weighting  Actual 
1
 
  (as % of maximum) performance 
Revenue  20% Slightly above target 
Adjusted EBIT  20% Above target 
Adjusted ROCE  35% Slightly above target 
Strategic objectives  25% Achieved
Total resulting level of award as % of target   107%
Total resulting level of award as % of maximum   53%
1 The actual target range has not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive and, therefore, will not be 
disclosed.
Long-term incentive plans (audited)
Share awards made during the year
In June 2012, the Company adopted the APR Energy Share Award Plan 2012 (the PSP ). The PSP allows for the grant of share options and/or 
contingent share awards. This provides a more effective retention tool with the flexibility to reflect common US practice on equity incentives. It 
is a long-term incentive plan enabling selected employees to be granted a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a specified price 
subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. The number of ordinary shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards granted in any 10-year 
period is limited to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary shares from time to time.
In 2013, 72,957 contingent share awards were granted to the Chief Executive Officer under the PSP . This award reflects the maximum 
opportunity of 200% of base salary representing a face value of $1,360,000. The number of shares reflects the closing share price of 1,155p 
on 28 October 2013, the date of award, based on the prevailing exchange rate, and remain subject to performance conditions. These awards 
provide for ordinary shares to be delivered (subject to payment of the nominal value of the award shares, if so required) on or after the third 
anniversary dependent on the achievement of performance conditions determined by reference to the growth of the Group's annualised 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending on 31 December 2015, with 30% vesting at a threshold of 4% growth, rising 
to 100% vesting for growth of 11% or more, with straight-line vesting between each level of performance. 86 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Performance graphs
Chief Executive Officer pay and relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR ) performance
The following graph compares the performance of a  100 investment in APR Energy plc  0.10 Ordinary Shares performance from 19 
September 2011, the first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange Main Market to 31 December 2013 measured by TSR, compared to 
that of the same investment in the FTSE All Share Index. The FTSE All Share Index has been selected for this comparison because it is the 
index which the Committee considers to be the most closely comparable to the Company. The FTSE 250 Index is also included as this also 
represents a useful comparator.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming 
reinvestment of dividends. Spot data is used at the date of Main Market listing and at the end of each financial year. The intermediate points are 
the values at the Company's financial year ends. 
Financial Year Ending 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 31 December 2013
CEO total remuneration (Single figure,   000s) 82
1
 361 1,028
Annual variable pay (% of maximum) 34%
2
 32% 53%
Long-term variable pay (% vested as % of maximum) 0%
2
 0% 0%
1  Calculated on a pro-rata basis for the period from 19 September 2011 to 31 December 2011, as a proportion of the reported 14 month year 
ended 31 December 2011.
2  For the 14 month period ended 31 December 2011.
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Value of a hypothetical  100 investment
APR Energy
FTSE 250
FTSE All Share
Source: DataStream Return Index
19/9/11 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13
Directors' Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 87 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer compared to employees 
The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to that of Group management. 
This group was selected as the most appropriate comparator group as the Chief Executive Officer is US-based and this group provides a 
useful local market reference point and is considered to be the most appropriate representation of the Group's employees for this requirement.
Change in remuneration   % change % change % change
from 2012 to 2013    in base salary in benefits in annual bonus
Chief Executive Officer   51% 7% 225%
Group management   20% 16% 109% 
The increase in base salary year on year reflects the findings of the 2012 remuneration review which found the Chief Executive Officer's 
remuneration to be substantially below market peers. The Chief Executive's Officer's revised salary became effective 1 January 2013. The 
Committee expects future changes to the Chief Executive Officer's base salary to be broadly in line with all employees. In 2014, the Chief 
Executive Officer's salary increased by 5%, in line with employee salary increases. The increase in the Chief Executive Officer's annual bonus 
reflects the increased base salary in 2013, an increase in the maximum annual bonus opportunity as a proportion of base salary, and improved 
performance against financial and strategic measures.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below displays the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and shareholder distributions, as 
required by the relevant remuneration regulations.
$m unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 % change
Overall expenditure on pay 
1
 33.4 22.3 49%
Adjusted EBITDA
 2
 181.2 156.7 16%
Dividend paid in the year
 3
 12.9 16.4 (21%)
1  Overall expenditure on pay: T otal staff costs from Note 10, including wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based 
payments.
2 Underlying profit: Adjusted EBITDA represents a key performance indicator for the Group.
3  Returns to shareholders: T otal dividends paid in the year - as shown in Note 34. Dividends paid in 2012 reflect the Company's inaugural full and 
final dividend of 10.0 pence per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and a 2012 interim dividend of 3.3 pence per 
share. In 2013, dividends paid reflect a final dividend of 6.7 pence per share for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and a 2013 interim 
dividend of 3.3 pence per share. 88 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Directors' shareholdings and share interests
Directors' interest in shares
The beneficial interest of the Directors in shares of the Company as at 31 December 2013 are stated below 
Audited  At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012
Name of Director   No. of Ordinary No. Founders No. of Ordinary No. Founders
   shares securities shares securities
Mike Fairey (Chairman)   30,000 - 30,000 -
John Campion 
1,2
   7,030,146 - 8,794,707 -
Matthew Allen 
3,4
   508,782 11,667 1,072,006 11,667
Gregory Bowes 
5
   38,754 - 38,754 -
Edward Hawkes 
6,7
   375,888 10,000 792,001 10,000
Jim Hughes    - - - -
Denise Kingsmill   30,000 - 30,000 -
Haresh Jaisinghani    - - - -
Shonaid Jemmett-Page    786 - 786 -
Vipul Tandon 
8
   - - - -
1 As at 12 March 2014, JCLA Cayman owned 6,941,463 ordinary shares.
2 These ordinary shares are held by JCLA Cayman, which is ultimately owned approximately 59% by John Campion.
3 Matthew Allen was also beneficially entitled to 19% of the 360,000 ordinary shares held by Horizon Growth Investment LLP . These were 
transferred to Matthew Allen in 2012.
4 Matthew Allen is also beneficially entitled to a further 4,600 Founder securities through his membership of Horizon Growth Investment LLP .  
5 Gregory Bowes' shares are held indirectly - he has interests in the partnership structure which owns ACM which in turn has interests in the 
Company.
6 Edward Hawkes was also beneficially entitled to 25% of the 360,000 ordinary shares held by Horizon Growth Investment LLP . These were 
transferred to Edward Hawkes in 2012. He also has interest in a further 50,000 ordinary shares by being a director and shareholder of Bizy 
Investments Ltd.
7 Edward Hawkes is also beneficially entitled to a further 6,000 Founder securities through his membership of Horizon Growth Investment LLP .
8 Vipul T andon has partnership interests in the partnership structure which owns SSP , which has interests in the Company.
Directors' Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 89 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Directors' share options and contingent share awards
Audited 
  Options 
1
   With  Without Vested but Exercised
   performance performance unexercised during the year
    measures measures  
Chief Executive Officer
John Campion    260,757 Nil - - 
1 There are no share schemes in place for John Campion. 
2  All awards awarded under the PSP are considered to be  options' because they reflect a contingent right to acquire/receive shares, subject 
to meeting performance targets and payment of a nominal value.
There is no shareholding requirement in place for Executive Directors. The Committee believes that given the significant shareholding of John 
Campion, the introduction of such a requirement is not appropriate. The Committee retains the discretion to apply shareholder guidelines for 
Executive Directors in the future, if they believe this to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Details of the awards made under the Company's Long-T erm Incentive Plans are set out below. Details of the performance conditions that have 
applied to awards are shown on page 85.
Audited
 Plan Grant   During 2013   Exercise Date Expiry
  date      price from which  date
    At 1    At 31  exercisable/
   January     December  awards vest 
   2013 Granted Exercised Lapsed  2013   
John Campion PSP
1
  2013 - 72,957 - - 72,957 Nominal 28 Oct  16 n/a
 PSP
2
 2012 150,000 - - - 150,000 Nominal 20 Nov  15 n/a
 2011 Plan
3
 2011 600,000 - - 562,200 37,800  10.00 13 Jun  14 12 Sep  14
1  This award is subject to a performance condition based on the increase in the Company's adjusted earnings per share over the period 
ending 31 December 2015, with 30% vesting for annualised EPS growth of 4% and 100% vesting for adjusted EPS growth of 11%.
2  Vesting will be delayed until performance outcome has been determined.
3  This award vests in tranches according to adjusted EBITDA (50%) and adjusted net income (50%) as derived from the audited consolidated 
financial statements for the calendar years ending 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013. The performance conditions for the tranches based 
on 31 December 2011 were partially met. The performance conditions for the tranches based on 31 December 2012 and 2013 were not met.
The share options and contingent share awards were granted for nil initial consideration.
Statement of Shareholder voting
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
 Voted for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld
 Number % Number % Number % Number %
 60,223,929 98.5% 931,821 1.5% 61,155,750 100% 1,131 0% 90 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Membership The Committee comprise four Non-Executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent Non-Executive   
and process Directors. The Chairman of the Company may serve on the Committee as an additional member if he or she was  
 considered independent on appointment as Chairman of the Company.
Chairman The following were members of the Remuneration Committee of the Company during 2013:
and members
 l Jim Hughes, Chairman
 l Gregory Bowes
 l Mike Fairey 
 l Baroness Denise Kingsmill
 John Campion, Chief Executive Officer stood down from the Committee on 24 July 2013, in line with best practice.
Attendance The Committee met on five occasions in 2013 and the members' attendance record is set out on page 58.
Remit The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for the  
 remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Company, the Executive Directors, the Company   
 Secretary and such other members of the Executive Management as it is designated to consider. 
  It has specific responsibility for approving remuneration of Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and other key members of management.
 The Committee is also responsible for:
 - reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy;
- approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay schemes and share 
incentive plans operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such 
schemes;
- determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for Executive Directors and other senior 
executives;
- ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the 
Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised;
- ensuring that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, are fulfilled; and
- establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration 
consultants who advise the Remuneration Committee.
No person shall be involved in any discussion or decisions regarding their own remuneration.
 The Committee's T erms of Reference is available on the Company's website.
Key activities The main activities of the Committee during the year were:
during the year l Assessing performance of Chief Executive Officer and determined annual bonuses for 2013;
 l Approving share awards for Chief Executive Officer 2013;
 l Establishing the Chief Executive Officers' salary arrangements for 2014;
 l Setting bonus targets for the Chief Executive Officer for 2014;
l Reviewing remuneration benchmarking and providing recommendations to the Board on fee structure and 
levels for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors;
 l Considering remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments;
 l Reviewing the revised remuneration reporting regulations and preparing the Directors' remuneration report; and
 l Considering a Non-Executive Director share purchase plan and providing recommendation to the Board.
Directors' Remuneration Report
Remuneration Committee Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 91 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
External advisors The Committee takes into account independent advice and appraisals of latest market data when considering 
incentive levels and remuneration packages against the background of its policy of not paying more than is 
necessary. 
 T owers Watson was appointed by the Committee as its principal external adviser following a tendering process in 
2012. T owers Watson advises on all aspects of the Company and Group's remuneration policy and practice and 
reviews the Company and Group's remuneration structures against corporate governance best practice. T owers 
Watson also provides remuneration data to the Group and presented a review of developments in UK corporate 
governance and remuneration and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new 
developments and evolving best practice.
 T owers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants' Group (which oversees the voluntary code of 
conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom) and the remuneration committee 
is satisfied that the advice provided on executive remuneration is objective and independent and that no conflict 
of interest arises as a result of other services.
 During the year T owers Watson was paid fees of  92,700 for services provided to the Committee.
  Pinsent Masons LLP has provided advice to the Company on law and regulation in relation to share plans 
matters. The advice was provided to the Company and made available to the Committee. Pinsent Masons LLP 
also provides general legal advice to the Company.
  All of these advisers were appointed by the Committee, which remains satisfied that the provision of these other 
services in no way compromises their independence.
Internal input The following employees provided input to the Committee during the year:
 l Chief Executive Officer, John Campion
 l Chief Human Resources Officer, Chris Himebauch
 l General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Steve List
 l Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Martinez, provided updates on the Group's financial performance
 l Director of Investor Relations, Karen Menzel, in regard of the disclosures required for the 2013 Annual Report
Jim Hughes
Chairman,
Remuneration Committee