 68 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Directors' Report
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 October 2009 under the Companies Act 2006 as a private company limited by 
shares with the name Horizon Acquisition Company Limited and with registered number 7062201. The principal legislation under which the 
Company operates is the UK Companies Act 2006 (the  Act ) and the regulations made thereunder. 
The Company is a holding company for the Group whose Ordinary Shares are currently admitted to a standard listing on the Official List and 
to trading on the Main Market. The Group is a leading global provider of fast-track large-scale mobile turbine power solutions to a variety of 
customers, including sovereign owned utilities, governmental institutions and industrial customers.
Other Statutory and Regulatory Information
The Directors present the Annual Report together with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Strategic Report
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of the business during the year to 31 December and of the position of the Group 
at the end of the financial year along with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced. This is set out in the Strategic Report, 
which can be found on pages 2 to 51.
Corporate Governance statement
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors' Report. 
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 
to 67 and is incorporated into this Directors' Report by reference.
Information included in the Directors' report
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement can be found in the Directors' report in the sections 
headed Substantial shareholdings , Deadlines for voting rights , Repurchase of shares ,  Amendment of the Company's articles of 
association ,  Appointment and replacement of directors  and Powers of the directors  and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance 
section by reference.
Disclaimer
The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide information to the members of the Company. The Annual Report and Accounts 
have been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. The Company, its Directors and 
employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose 
hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and 
developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at 
the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out on page 34 to 39. Dividends paid and proposed are set out on page 39. The Board is proposing a final 
dividend of 6.7 pence per share subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 20 May 2014, payable on 3 June 2014 to shareholders on the 
register as at 4 April 2014. Following the payment of an interim dividend of 3.3 pence per share in May 2013, the proposed total dividend for the 
year is therefore 10.0 pence per share.
Internal control and risk management
Details of the Group's approach to internal control and risk management can be found on pages 46 to 47. 
Directors and their interests
A list of Directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and details 
of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 88. No Director had 
a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its operating 
companies at any time during the year.  The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors of the Company can be 
found on pages 54 to 55 under The Board. 
As at the date of this report, indemnities (which are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006) are in place 
under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors of the Company and the former Directors of the Company who held 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 69 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
office during the year ended 31 December 2013, to the extent permitted by law and by the Company's Articles of Association, in respect 
of all liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a Director of the Company or its subsidiaries. Copies of these 
indemnities are available for review at the Company's registered office.
Employment policy
The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their 
respective aptitudes and abilities. The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled 
during their employment and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate. The Group has continued 
its policy of employee involvement by making information available to employees on matters of concern to them. Many employees are 
stakeholders in the Company through participation in share option schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
Gender diversity
As at 31 December 2013, the Group employs 196 people globally. Around 27% per cent of our workforce is female with some 52 women 
employed. At a senior leadership level women represented 12% (3 out of 26) of this population and 20% (one in five) of the Board are female.
Future developments
Important events since the year end are described in note 35 and future developments are described in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 51.
Relations with shareholders
The Board aims to provide an impartial and straightforward analysis of the Group and its business when communicating with shareholders, 
and we believe that being clear and open in our assessment of the market for temporary power and the prospects for the business is extremely 
important. In line with the Company's Main Market listing in London, management will continue to engage fully with shareholders on a regular 
basis.
A reflection of the Board's commitment to this goal has been the appointment of a full time Director of Investor Relations based in London. 
Beyond the formal reporting of full year and half-year results, presentations, group calls and one- to-one meetings will be undertaken by 
management in the UK, Europe, and North America. Non-Executive Directors are informed on a regular basis of such activity and encouraged 
to engage directly with shareholder meeting programmes during the year.
The Board makes every effort to ensure it has a comprehensive understanding of the views of major shareholders gained from regular contact with 
such shareholders and frequent dialogue with our brokers. The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and 
welcomes their participation.
Conflicts of interest
The Group has rigorous procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interest. Should any Directors declare any interests they have which could 
conflict with those of the Group, then the Board is satisfied that the powers it has to authorise (or otherwise address) such potential conflicts are 
effective.
Major shareholders
As at 3 March 2014 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document) the Company had received notification of the following 
major shareholders, representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of Shareholder No. of ordinary shares % of total voting rights
General Electric International Inc. 15,453,129 16.4%
SSP Energy 11,131,556 11.8%
ACM Energy Holdings 10,073,820 10.7%
JCLA 7,000,585 7.4%
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. 6,171,648 6.6%
Alliance Bernstein 5,780,075 6.1%
J.P . Morgan Asset Management 5,559,537 5.9%
Blackrock Inc. 5,232,977 5.6%
Capital Research Management 5,051,460 5.4% 
Equinox Partners LP 2,988,749 3.2% 
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company. 70 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Share capital 
On 31 December 2013, the Company had in issue 94,251,622 ordinary shares of 10 pence (2012: 78,235,164 ordinary shares of 10 pence). 
Following completion of its acquisition of GE's power rental business on 28 October 2013, the Company issued 15,453,129 new ordinary 
shares of 10 pence to General Electric International Inc.. Details of the changes in issued share capital during the year are disclosed in Note 23 
to the accounts.
Rights and obligations attached to ordinary shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the  Act ) and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, any share 
may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine, or in the absence of such determination 
including where such resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may determine.
Voting rights
Subject to disenfranchisement as provided in the Company's Articles of Association and subject to any special terms as to voting on which 
any shares may be issued (no such shares currently being in issue) and any other provisions of the Articles, on a show of hands every member 
present in person (or, being a corporation, present by a duly authorised representative) or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every 
member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder. The Company's major shareholders do not 
have different voting rights.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the 
votes of the other joint holders; and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the 
Register in respect of the joint holding.
Restrictions on voting
No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote (either personally or by proxy or by a 
corporate representative) at any general meeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in 
the Company if any calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share remain unpaid or if he is a person who is interested 
(as defined in the Articles) in less than 0.25 per cent (in nominal value) of the shares of that class in issue and he has been served with a 
restriction notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required 
to be provided under the Act.
Save as disclosed in the prospectus published by the Company in September 2011 in connection with its readmission to the Official List of the 
UK Listing Authority (the Readmission Prospectus , which is available on our website at www.aprenergy.com the Company is not aware of any 
agreement between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights. 
As disclosed in the Readmission Prospectus, pursuant to relationship agreements entered into between the Company and certain 
shareholders on 13 June 2011, such shareholders are obliged not to exercise their voting rights or procure any amendment to the Articles 
which would be inconsistent with the terms of the relevant relationship agreement.
Pursuant to the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and General Electric International Inc. on 28 October 2013, such 
shareholder is obliged to exercise or cause the exercise or, as applicable, prevent the exercise of all voting rights exercisable by any member of 
the GE group in the manner required to give effect to its obligations under such relationship agreement.
Dividends
The Company in a general meeting may declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of its members, provided that no dividend 
shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors. The Directors may pay such interim dividends as appear to them to 
be justified. No dividend or other moneys payable in respect of a share shall bear interest as against the Company.
There are no fixed date on which entitlement to dividends arises. All dividends unclaimed for a period of twelve years after becoming due for 
payment shall be forfeited and shall cease to remain owing by the Company.
Variation of rights
Whenever the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may (unless otherwise 
provided by the terms of issue of that class) be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters of the 
issued shares of the class (excluding treasury shares) or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of such 
holders.
Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares in the Company
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, except that:
l pursuant to the relationship agreement dated 28 October 2013, General Electric International Inc. has agreed with the Company not to 
directly or indirectly transfer or dispose of ordinary shares (without the prior written consent of the Company) until the first anniversary of 
the Relationship Agreement or the earlier termination of such restrictions in accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, if 
applicable (and, thereafter, for as long as members of the GE group hold equal to or greater than 5 per cent of the Company's ordinary 
shares such ordinary shares must only be transferred or disposed of in accordance with agreed orderly marketing arrangements);
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 71 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
l certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
l pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to 
deal in the Company's ordinary shares.
Otherwise, the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of ordinary shares that may result in restrictions on their transfer.
Amendment of Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of the Company, the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company's shareholders.
Rights to appoint and remove Directors
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director. Any Director so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next annual general 
meeting and shall then be eligible for election by shareholders. 
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Act, the Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of 
his/her period of office. The office of a Director must be vacated if: (i) he resigns his office by notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered 
at a meeting of the Board; or (ii) by notice in writing he offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer; or (iii) his resignation is 
requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number; or (iv) a registered medical practitioner 
who is treating that Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that Director has become physically or mentally incapable of 
acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months; or (v) by reason of a Director's mental health, a court makes an order 
which wholly or partly prevents that Director from personally exercising any powers or rights which that Director would otherwise have; or (vi) he 
is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board (whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends) for six 
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated; or (vii) he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally; 
or (viii) he is prohibited by law from being a Director; or (ix) he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Act or is removed from office pursuant to 
the Articles.
Relationship agreements 
As disclosed in the Readmission Prospectus, certain shareholders entered into relationship agreements with the Company on 13 June 2011. 
The principal purpose of such relationship agreements is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of 
the relevant shareholder and to ensure that transactions and relationships between the Company and such shareholders are at arm's length 
and on a commercial basis. Such agreements will terminate upon such shareholder (together with their connected persons and investment 
vehicles) ceasing to hold 5 per cent or more of the total number of ordinary shares in issue. In addition, so long as such shareholders' collective 
shareholding in the Company does not fall below 5 per cent, such shareholder will have the right to nominate for appointment one Director (or, 
in the case of the Founders, two Directors) at each of the Board and Operating Board levels.
In addition, General Electric International, Inc. entered into a relationship agreement with the Company on 28 October 2013. The principal 
purpose of such relationship agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of GE and to 
ensure that transactions and relationships between the Company and GE are at arm's length and on a commercial basis. The principal rights 
and obligations of General Electric International, Inc. under such agreement will terminate upon members of the GE group ceasing to hold 
equal to or greater than 5 per cent of the Company's ordinary shares. In addition, as such members of the GE group hold equal to or greater 
than 5 per cent of the Company's ordinary shares General Electric International Inc. will have the right to appointment one observer to attend 
Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company's Articles and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, 
the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management 
of the business of the Company or not. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or 
charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets (present and future) and uncalled capital of the Company and to issue debentures 
and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or any third party. 
Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares
At this year's Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the Board to allot relevant securities (i) up to a nominal 
amount of  6,220,607 (representing 62,206,070 ordinary shares of 10p each) being the guideline limit of approximately 66% of the Company's 
ordinary share capital. Of this amount  3,110,303 (or 31,103,035 ordinary shares of 10p each), representing approximately 33% of the 
Company's ordinary share capital, can only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue, such authority to apply until the end of next 
year's Annual General Meeting (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 20 August 2015).
A special resolution will also be proposed to grant the Directors' additional power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with 
rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of  471,258, representing approximately 5% of the Company's ordinary share capital. A 
special resolution will also be proposed at this year's Annual General Meeting to grant the Directors' authority to repurchase the Company's 
ordinary shares in the market. The authority will be limited to a maximum of 9,425,162 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Company's 
ordinary share capital and will set the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid. 72 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Founder securities 
The Founder securities take the form of C ordinary shares in APR Energy Holdings Limited. Details of the Founder securities are disclosed in 
Note 25 to the accounts.
Save with the approval of the holders of 75 per cent of the Founder securities in issue from time to time: (i) APR Energy Holdings Limited 
may not be voluntarily wound up; (ii) the Company may not sell its ordinary shares in APR Energy Holdings Limited; (iii) APR Energy Holdings 
Limited may not sell any material part of the business or assets acquired pursuant to the Acquisition; and (iv) ordinary shares must not be 
issued at a discount to their market value.
Securities carrying special rights
Save as disclosed in the Readmission Prospectus (and summarised above) in respect of Founder securities, no person holds securities in the 
Group carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. 
Rights under the employee share scheme
There are no restrictions on the exercise of voting rights in relation to shares to which the employee share scheme relates.
Going concern
The Directors confirm that the business is a going concern on the basis that it has significant cash, debt facilities and net assets, and for this 
reason have adopted the going concern principle in the preparation of the financial statements. Further discussion regarding going concern is 
provided on page 39 in the Financial Review.
Change of control
The Company is party to a number of agreements, which take effect, alter, or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following the 
successful conclusion of a takeover bid. Such agreements include purchase contracts with Caterpillar Inc. together with several customer sales 
contracts, none of which are considered individually material.
In addition, the Company's share schemes contain provisions which, in the event of a change of control, would result in outstanding options 
and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes. As summarised in Note 25 to the accounts, if a change of 
control of the Company is at a price per ordinary share that is at least equal to a specified price per ordinary share, the Founder securities may 
be converted into the requisite number of ordinary shares.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or its employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid (although, in line with the position for many listed companies, provisions of the Company's share plans 
permit options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover in certain circumstances).
Certain members of the Management T eam have entered into service agreements with APR Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company. The 
terms of such agreements generally provide that in the event of a termination of that person's employment due to a change of control of the 
Company, the relevant employee shall be entitled to (i) unpaid base salary as at the date of termination, (ii) any annual bonus accrued but 
unpaid as at the date of termination; (iii) a number of months' base salary and (iv) other non-material benefits.
Disclosure of information to the Company's Auditor
In accordance with section 418 of the Act, the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far 
as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 418(3) of the Act) of which the Group's Auditor is unaware; 
and each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group's Auditor is aware of that information.
Indemnity of officers
Under Article 180 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify any Director or other officer against liability, subject to the provisions of the Act, 
and the Articles grant an indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where judgement is given in their 
favour. Under the authority conferred by Article 180, the Company has granted indemnities to Directors and officers of the Company and its 
subsidiaries. The indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises out of fraud, default, negligence, or breach of fiduciary duty or trust by the 
indemnified person.
The Company has Directors' and officers' liability insurance which covers each Director and his or her lawful spouse or civil partner against 
losses for claims made against them in their capacity as Directors of the Company. The policy is intended to maintain such coverage for the 
term of the Directors' appointments, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy of insurance from time to time in force.
Where it is appropriate for a Director to seek advice from independent advisers at the Company's expense, the Company will reimburse the 
cost of reasonable legal costs incurred, subject (in each case) to a maximum of  5,000 per Director and, subject further, to the prior approval of 
the Board.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 73 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Essential contractual arrangements 
The Company's key equipment purchases are focused on two major suppliers with which it has strategic alliances and other agreements. The 
Company purchases its diesel and Gas reciprocating fleet from Ring Power Corporation with its headquarters located in St. Augustine, Florida, 
USA. Ring Power is an authorised dealer of Caterpillar, Inc. based in Peoria, Illinois, USA. On 28 October 2013, the Company purchased GE's 
dual-fuel mobile turbine fleet. The Company has arrangements for global support and service from GE, Ring Power and Pratt & Whitney Power 
Systems, Inc. to procure spare parts as required.
Political contributions 
There were no political contributions during the period.
Annual General Meeting
The Company's Annual General Meeting ( AGM ) will be held on 20 May 2014. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and details of the 
resolutions to be proposed at the meeting will be provided to shareholders in a separate circular. 
AGM - special resolutions
Special resolutions will be proposed at the 2014 AGM to authorise the Directors: (i) to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate amount 
representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and a further one third in relation to rights issues (in 
line with guidance issued by the Association of the British Insurers); (ii) to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders on allotment 
of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value of approximately 5 per cent of the current issued share capital; 
(iii) to authorise the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares; (iv) to approve the calling of meetings (other than AGMs) on 14 days' 
notice; (v) to give authority (in the form customarily taken by English law governed companies listed on the London Stock Exchange) for the 
Company to make donations to charities or other worthwhile causes that might technically fall within the Act's definition of a political donation; 
and (vi) to ratify the payment of previous dividends.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP was appointed as Auditor at the last AGM and has expressed its willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the 
provisions of section 489 of the Act, a resolution proposing its reappointment will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM.
Greenhouse gas (GHG ) emissions
The following information reflects the Company's mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Act's (Strategic Report 
and Directors' Report) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations ). Under the Regulations, the emission categories captured within the definitions 
reflect all material emission sources for which the Group is deemed responsible. 
The Group has decided to measure GHG emissions using an operational control approach; the organisational boundary has been set to reflect 
those activities within the Group's control meaning that the Group does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are beyond the 
boundary of its operational control. Fleet emission are driven by three main factors: the fuel type customers chose to use; the pattern of their 
usage; and the fuel efficiency of the Group's fleet. Only the last of these three factors is under the Group's control, therefore emissions arising 
from these other factors has not been measured. 
The Group does not manufacture any products or equipment and has identified the following key activities as being within the GHG reporting 
requirements:
-- Scope 1: Fleet emissions reflecting all fuel types burned within the Group's power generating equipment, including reciprocating engines 
and dual-fuel turbines used across all geographies within the Group's control.
 -- Scope 2: Heat and electricity purchased from the respective local suppliers for site/office usage and Group owned and operated site 
vehicles. This has been calculated as non-material and would reflect less than 1% of emissions and has therefore not been included.
At present, Scope 3 activities (e.g. business travel; freight shipping) are excluded from the reporting scope, as these are not within the Group's 
operational control, nor is it believed that the quality of the data would not be sufficiently robust for accurate reporting in these areas. 
The Group has identified GHG emissions per megawatt hour (MWH) as the most appropriate KPI (referred to as the intensity ratio). This ratio 
will be impacted by fuel type, fuel quality and power generation equipment type, the determination of each of these factors rests with the client.
 
Global GHG emissions data - (CO
2
e, metric tonnes rounded to the nearest 10,000)
 2013
Scope 1 2,240,260
Scope 2  <20,000
Total GHG emissions (CO 2e) 2,260,260
Company's chosen intensity ratio: 
Emissions per MWH 0.74 74 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Fair, balanced and understandable
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, business model and strategy. 
When arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes including the following:
l the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management with co-ordination to ensure consistency across sections;
l a verification process to ensure factual accuracy;
l comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken by members of the Management T eam and other senior management;
l an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by the Company's legal advisers and other advisers; and
l the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the full Board.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.  Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU.  Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.  In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
l properly select and apply accounting policies;
l present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
l provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance; and
l make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Act.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.  
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
l the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
l the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; 
and
l the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, business model and strategy.
 On behalf of the Board
 John Campion Andrew Martinez
 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Office
 25 March 2014  25 March 2014
Corporate Governance Report
Statement of the Directors 
in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements