 22| ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005
at least once a year to review the Group's policy on Directors'
remuneration and to advise the Board on the salary and benefits of
Executive Directors. Executive Directors may be invited to attend
Committee meetings, but will not be present during any discussion 
of their own pay arrangements. A copy of the Committee's terms 
of reference is available on the Company's website.
The Remuneration Report, which includes details of the Group's
remuneration policy is set out on pages 22 to 29.
Nomination Committee
During the period between Listing and 15 June 2005 the Nomination
Committee comprised two non-independent Non-Executive Directors,
being Simon Best and Ian Kent, and one independent Non-Executive
Director, John Brown, who chaired the Committee. Carol Ferguson was
appointed to the Committee on 16 June 2005.
The terms of reference of the Committee reflect the
recommendations of the Combined Code. A copy of the Committee's
terms of reference is available on the Company's website. The Committee
meets as and when necessary to review and recommend appointments 
to the Board. 
The Nomination Committee has appraised the performance of
individual Directors seeking re-election in the year and will continue to do
so in future periods.
Ian Kent, who is seeking reappointment as a Non-Executive Director,
has extensive Board level experience in the pharmaceutical sector both 
in public and private companies. Based on his proven and appraised
contribution to the Company's development to date, his experience and
guidance will be of great assistance in Ardana's successful transition to 
a public Company, and his reappointment is recommended by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are the principal
spokespersons for the Group with both institutional and private investors.
The Group maintains a policy of regular contact with its principal
institutional shareholders, and the Annual General Meeting is used as an
opportunity to communicate with private investors, as is the Group's
website (www.ardana.co.uk) which includes Company announcements,
information on the Group's activities and details of the Company's share
price.
Internal Control
One of the key objectives of the Directors and senior management 
is to safeguard the value of the business and assets of the Group. Part 
of this objective requires the development of relevant policies and
appropriate internal controls to ensure proper management of the Group's
resources and the identification of risks which might serve 
to undermine them. The Directors are ultimately responsible for ensuring
that the Group maintains a sound system of risk management and internal
corporate governance statement
(continued) ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005 | 23
controls to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's assets and
for reviewing its effectiveness. 
There has been in place throughout the year a process of high level
review of internal control by the Directors. Management information is
reviewed each month including variances against budget and identifying
key business risks. This system has been reviewed by the Audit Committee
and discussed with the external Auditors. This system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. During the year the Board reviewed
the internal controls of the Company and deemed them to be satisfactory.
The Board will continue reviewing internal controls to ensure compliance
with the recommendations of the Turnbull guidance.
There is a continuous process via management reports for identifying,
evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Group. This
process has been in place during the year under review and up to the date
of approval of this Annual Report and Financial statements. It is regularly
reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
In view of the current size of the Group, the Directors believe that the
above procedures are adequate and consequently the creation of an
internal audit function is not deemed necessary at this stage. The Directors
will continue to review the position as the Group develops.
The Company has in place a policy on  whistle-blowing' which is
communicated to all employees in the Staff Handbook. This policy puts 
in place a procedure for dealing with disclosures of malpractice, in
compliance with the Pulic Interest Disclosure Act 1998.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The BioIndustry Association (BIA ) Code of Best Practice
The UK BioIndustry Assocation, of which Ardana is a member, has
published a code to establish principles of best practice for information
communication and management amongst its members. The principles
support and extend the Company's duty to publish and communicate
information in a fair, equal and balanced manner. The principles and
provisions embedded in the Code need to be reported on in financial
statements for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2000. The 
Board is committed to maintaining a dialogue with the Company's investors
and other interested parties and confirms that the Company has complied
with the Code for the year under review. Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority and the Directors' Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. A resolution to approve this report will be proposed to
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in September and is set
out as resolution number three in the notice of the meeting, which
accompanies the Annual Report and Financial statements 2005.
Remuneration Policy
The Group's policy on directors' remuneration is to attract and retain the
best staff in a manner consistent with the Group's strategy and the goals of
corporate governance. In setting the Group's remuneration policy, the
Remuneration Committee considers a number of factors, including the
total remuneration available to Executive Directors of comparable
companies.
Remuneration Committee
The composition of the Remuneration Committee is shown on
page 19. 
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the
Group's policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration
packages for the Executive Directors including the grant of share options.
The Committee also has responsibility for establishing policy for total
compensation for all employees within the Group including approving
awards for share options. 
At the Committee's invitation or request, the Chief Executive Officer
may be in attendance at its meetings. The Company Secretary, Graham Lee,
provides administrative support to the Remuneration Committee. 
No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own
remuneration.
The Board supports the Executive Directors in taking up external
appointments where it enhances their contribution to the Company and
where they have sufficient time. All such appointments require prior Board
approval, and consideration is given to retention of remuneration received
from such appointments on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and
outside the Group, as required.
In the year to 31 March 2005 no material assistance was provided 
to the Remuneration Committee by third parties. 
report of the remuneration committee
24| ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Remuneration of Executive Directors
Consistent with the above policy, the remuneration packages awarded
to Executive Directors comprise a mix of performance-related and non-
performance-related elements.
1. Base salary
Salaries are reviewed annually taking into account the responsibilities
and performance of each Director and his/her expected future contribution.
These are then benchmarked against remuneration levels of directors in
comparable companies within the sector. The Committee aims to set base
salaries for the Management Group close to the median of base salaries
for similar positions within other pharmaceutical companies of a similar size.
2. Annual performance incentive
The Group operates a discretionary bonus scheme of up to 20% of
base salary. Such bonuses are dependent upon performance, which is
measured against individual and corporate objectives set at 
the beginning of the year. In 2005, 10% of the performance-linked
remuneration was assessed on overall measures of Group performance. The
balance was based on individual job-specific assessments. 
The remuneration policy is not expected to change in 2006. 
3. Longer term incentives
a) Share options
Share options have been granted to employees and Executive Directors
to reward past performance. The exercise prices for these share options
and details of all share options outstanding at 31 March 2005 are given
in note 15 to the financial statements. Share options held by Executive
Directors are subject to the rules of the Ardana Bioscience Employees' Share
Option Scheme, the Ardana Limited Employees' Share Option Scheme and
the Ardana plc Executive Share Option Scheme. All options expire after ten
years from the date of grant. The award of share options is at the
discretion of the Remuneration Committee. 
Share options granted to Directors since March 2004 have been
subject to a performance based condition. The performance criteria are
based on a combination of Group and individual performance versus the
objectives set for the past year. Group performance and Executive
Director individual performance is assessed and agreed by the
Remuneration Committee via the annual appraisal process; individual
employee performance ratings are agreed by management. These
performance ratings are then applied to the available pool of shares
under option set by the Board for the year.
ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005 | 25 Share options issued to John Brown during the year were issued in
accordance with his letter of appointment that linked the number of shares
under option to the number of shares purchased on a one for one basis. There
are no performance criteria relating to the exercise of these options and no
proposals for future option grants.
Share options issued to Graham Lee during the year were issued in
accordance with his letter of appointment that linked the number of
shares under option to the number of shares purchased on a three options
for one purchased basis.
Full details of Directors' share options are on page 28.
b) Pensions and other benefits
The Group operates a stakeholder pension scheme but makes no
contributions or has any other obligations to any pension schemes on
behalf of the Executive Directors (2004:  nil). 
Benefits, detailed in the table of Directors' Remuneration set out on
page 26, comprise healthcare insurance and relocation expenses on
joining.
Directors' Service Contracts
The service contracts for the two Executive Directors were entered into
on 4 March 2005 and include the following remuneration-related
provisions:
are not of fixed-term duration;
are subject to 12 months' notice by either party. The Group is entitled to
pay a sum in lieu of notice equivalent to the basic salary plus benefits
that would have been earned during the notice period; and 
do not provide for further compensation payable upon early
termination.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
26| ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005
report of the remuneration committee
(continued) Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the
Executive Directors and ratified by the Board. Terms of service are specified
in letters of appointment. Currently appointments are for a period of two
years, which may be renewed, and are subject to one month's notice. Non-
Executive Directors do not receive pension contributions or a bonus.
Prior to March 2005, Non-Executive Directors participated in the
Company's share option schemes. It is the Company's intention from
March 2005 onwards that Non-Executive Directors will not participate 
in the Company's share option schemes.
Non-Executive Directors' appointments may be renewed by mutual
agreement. As recommended by Combined Code provision A.7.2, any term
beyond nine years for a Non-Executive Director is subject to rigorous review.
The Group's policy on renewal after six years is to extend one year at a time.
Terms and Conditions for the Non-Executive Directors are available at
the Company's registered office.
ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005 | 27 28| ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Salary
Name of and fees Bonus Benefits 2005 2004
director  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000 
Executive
M Lindsay 191 27 1 219 202
G Lee 116 20 - 136 -
S Best 232 46 1 279 256
539 93 2 634 458
Non executive
S Best 4 -- 4 -
I Kent 27 -- 27 35
J Brown 24 -- 24 1
D Moran 10 -- 10 -
H Birner 
(1) 
13 -- 13 6
D Brister 
(1)
13 -- 13 13
S Foden 2 -- 213
B Bergstein 
(1)
-- - - 13
93 -- 93 81
(1)
Included within these amounts are amounts paid to third parties in respect of making available the services of the individual
Directors' remuneration
Details of individual directors' emoluments for the year are as follows: 
Audited Information
The following information forms the auditable part of the report,
except where noted.
report of the remuneration committee
(continued) ardana ANNUAL REPORT 2005 | 29
Directors' Interests
Interest in shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 March 2005, together with their interests at 1 April 2004 were as follows:
All interests in shares at 1 April 2004 were in the shares of Ardana
Bioscience Limited. Under the share for share reorganisation of 5 May 2004
(as disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements on page 49), shares
in Ardana Bioscience Limited were exchanged for an equivalent number of
shares in Ardana Limited, subsequently Ardana plc.
Other than detailed above, no other directors had interests in the
shares of the Company or of other Group Companies at 31 March 2005.
There have been no changes in Directors' interests in shares of the
Company since the year-end.
31 March 1 April 
2005 2004
Ordinary shares of  0.01 each
M Lindsay 186,538 83,269
G Lee 50,000 -
S Best 1,130,254 555,127
I Kent 319,768 149,884
J Brown 10,000 -
On the date of his resignation (3 March 2005), D Brister had 5,258 B ordinary shares of  0.01 each in the Company (1 April 2004: 2,629).