 ARM Holdings plc 25
Environmental, social, corporate governance and ethical policies
While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its 
stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and environments in which  
it operates. The Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for these matters, which are considered at board level.  
A corporate responsibility (CR) report is on pages 26 and 27 of this report and a more detailed version is available  
via the Group's website www.arm.com. The company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is also available on  
the Group's website and the Group regularly monitors employees' awareness of Group policies and procedures,  
including ethical policies. The Group also operates a whistleblowing policy which provides for employees to have  
access to senior management to raise concerns in strict confidence about any unethical business practices. There  
is also a facility to make reports by telephone to an independent third party through a whistleblowing hotline.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity 
are respected. The Group strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment  
of, or discrimination against, its staff. The Group endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers  
and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
The Group's premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no manufacturing activities. Staff make use of 
computer-aided design tools to generate IP. This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions. 
With the exception of development systems products, the majority of products  sold by the Group comprise 
microprocessor core and physical IP designs that are delivered electronically to customers. 
A number of initiatives in this area have continued in 2008. The Group's environmental policy is published on its website within 
the CR report. An environmental action plan is implemented through various initiatives. These include monitoring energy usage, 
resource consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing 
controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working with suppliers to improve environmental management.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association enable the Company to send information to shareholders 
electronically and make documents available through the website rather than in hard copy, which provide both 
environmental and cost benefits. Shareholders can opt to continue receiving a printed copy of the annual report  
if they prefer.
Health and safety
Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are considered low risk from a health and safety 
perspective, the safety of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces world-wide. Continual 
improvement in safety management systems is achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate  
potential hazards and through occupational health assessments for employees. More detail about the Group's approach  
to environmental matters and health and safety is included in the CR report on pages 26 and 27.
By order of the board
 
 
Patricia Alsop, Company Secretary 26 ARM Holdings plc
Corporate responsibility
ARM's corporate responsibility programme encompasses accountability to shareholders, commitment to employees  
and their families, service to our Partners, fostering good relationships with suppliers, involvement in the betterment  
of local communities and minimising impact on the environment. Within each of these pillars, we focus on continuous 
improvement measured by internal objectives, external audits and benchmarking. 
Employees
ARM endeavours to attract and retain the best people available by being a good and ethical employer. In the UK,  
ARM participated in the Sunday Times Best Company to Work For  survey in 2008 and in January 2009, was presented 
with a 1 star award which means it is a first class  employer. In 2008 ARM was judged by the UK's Guardian newspaper  
as a Top Employer .
Benefits
Employees receive benefits including private medical/healthcare; health, travel and life insurance; pensions/401k 
plan, sabbaticals and flexible working. ARM aligns the interests of employees and shareholders by providing equity 
participation through restricted shares under the Employee Equity Plan and the opportunity to buy shares through 
savings plans. ARM supports family-friendly initiatives such as a child care voucher scheme in the UK and a flexible 
spending account in the US. 
Feedback, development and training
ARM recognises the importance of enabling employees to learn and develop, encouraging each individual to embark 
on a path of self-betterment using a blend of reflection and feedback, coaching, mentoring, training and education.  
At least once a year, employees and managers have a formal discussion on performance and development through 
the ARM Feedback and Development System. Training needs are tracked, delivered and progress is monitored through 
our Learning and Development team, ensuring that the Group's skills base is increased in line with business needs and 
personal aspirations. 
Health and safety
The safety and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority. ARM has adopted UK health and safety 
legislation as the global corporate standard due to its depth and breadth and maintains membership of the British  
Safety Council to reflect this standard. ARM's global internal audit programme, the Facilities Management Review, 
evaluates health and safety performance across all sites with a goal of consistency of health and safety provision  
world-wide. We have seen increased awareness from design centre managers of health, safety and welfare issues  
and their mitigation in 2008, in the results of audits conducted by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance (LRQA).
To date ARM has had no serious issues and retains a very low accident rate - less than two recorded accidents per one 
hundred employees annually. 
Health and safety issues are communicated to employees through various media including the intranet, email and 
workshops. As part of ARM's induction process, an extensive workshop introduces new employees to health and safety 
issues in their office. 
Suppliers
ARM has relatively few suppliers, but the Company engages in dialogue with larger vendors to assess their CR 
credentials. ARM evaluates suppliers on several factors including vendor policies (where applicable) and the  
reputation of the supplier or contractor. ARM encourages suppliers and contractors to abide by its Human Rights  
and Ethical Trading Policy. ARM continues to work with suppliers and service providers to minimise environmental 
impact, wherever practicable. 
Local communities
ARM believes a good corporate citizen invests in and engages with local communities. 
Business community
ARM is a founding member of both The Learning Collaboration (TLC) and the Cambridge Network as well as a founding 
sponsor of the Electronics Knowledge Transfer Network. In 2008, ARM co-founded the Cambridge Business Lectures. Four 
lectures were held in 2008 with combined attendance of more than 1,000. The lectures are free to participants through 
corporate sponsorship.
Youth and education
ARM supports educational endeavours through sponsorship of science/IT-related education initiatives and donations 
of supplies such as redundant computer equipment to schools. We support the Engineering Education Scheme, Young 
Engineers and Young Enterprise as well as the Cambridge University Entrepreneurs, University of Texas College of 
Communication, Cambridge University Engineering Society and primary educational establishments.
ARM's University Programme engages with universities in nearly every region of the world, including the EU, North and 
South America, Australia, India, China and Japan - designing course material, providing technical seminars, donating 
equipment and software and offering assistance to students. This reflects ARM's commitment to help universities produce 
graduates with the necessary skills that its Partners need.  ARM Holdings plc 27
Employee volunteering and gift matching programme
ARM encourages employees to support their local communities by providing paid volunteer time and a charitable  
gift matching programme. Employee volunteering includes acting as school governors, mentors to young people,  
or volunteers to organise events to raise money for charity. Some employees volunteer time for work on engineering 
projects with school and college students. 
Environment
ARM designs technology at the heart of low-power products across a wide range of application areas. Intelligence 
within its low-power IP cores can be used to measure, manage and control the environmental performance of consumer 
electronics and IT equipment, while improving functional performance and reducing carbon footprint. Additionally, 
ARM can leverage its Connected Community  of partners to provide complete low-power solutions for products based 
on the ARM architecture. 
ARM's activities do not produce harmful waste or emissions, and the Ethical Investment Research Service (EIRIS) 
grades ARM as an environmentally low impact  business. However, ARM recognises the need to mitigate any form 
of environmental impact. ARM's environmental performance is measured against targets to reduce resource usage, 
increase reuse and recycling and control carbon emissions. 
ARM works with LRQA environmental auditors to develop and improve our environmental management system. LRQA's 
twice yearly environmental and health and safety themed audits are now integrated with their other accreditation work, 
which has increased understanding of ARM's environmental objectives among the local management and provided 
action plans for achieving these objectives. Adopting LRQA's Business Assurance approach provides an independent 
assessment of the ARM Management System and the various review procedures in place within the company. This 
approach enables LRQA to verify ARM's compliance with ISO9001:2000 and components of other relevant ISO standards.
In UK offices where ARM procures its own energy, supplies are from renewable sources. The application of a greener 
policy on energy procurement is being extended to other ARM locations where practicable. For example, the new 92,000 
sq ft office in San Jose, California has incorporated some of the building technologies that score towards the Leadership 
in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Green Building Rating System and this principle will be implemented in future 
sites where feasible. In the UK, ARM decreased CO2 production by 22% from 2006 to 2007 and by 89% between 2007 
and 2008. In 2008, ARM also implemented an off-site regional Data Centre in the US and by centralising these services 
the number of server rooms distributed across multiple ARM locations was reduced with an associated reduction in 
environmental impact.
ARM continues to assess its waste management strategies and improve the provision for recycling. Paper, cardboard 
packaging, glass, aluminum and plastic can be recycled in many locations. In the UK, paper recycling grew by 56% 
between 2006 and 2007 and by 103% between 2007 and 2008. Likewise the cardboard packaging recycling growth  
between 2006 and 2007 of 12% saw a further increase of 30% between 2007 and 2008.
Travel
ARM recognises the environmental impact of travel and employees are encouraged to cycle to work, to share car 
journeys, or to use public transport. Consistent with local custom and practice, bus transport is provided for employees  
in Bangalore to minimise the environmental impact of individual travel to work and to reduce congestion. In a company 
of 1,740 people, there are fewer than 30 company cars.
Business travel, particularly by air, is important to maintain ARM's very effective Partner relationships, but ways this 
can be reduced are regularly reviewed. Video conferencing is utilised where practicable and we are progressively 
upgrading our equipment to make this option more effective. Data regarding flights is benchmarked with a view to 
reducing business travel while ensuring that good business relationships are maintained. Despite ARM's increased 
headcount and number of locations between 2006 and the end of 2008, we have achieved a reduction in flight-related 
CO2 production of 3.4% over this period.
Ethics and equal opportunities
ARM recognises its ethical responsibilities to all stakeholders which are manifested in a range of policies and processes. 
ARM conducts its business with integrity, respecting cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals. The Company 
has an obligation to promote respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without 
distinction as to colour, ethnic origin, gender, age, religion or similar belief, political or other opinion, disability or  
sexual orientation. 
Business continuity plans
ARM has developed business continuity plans for all of its operations world-wide to enable business to continue should  
a serious event or incident occur. These plans are designed to protect the interests of ARM's stakeholders and in particular 
ARM's employees, property and other assets, and to provide facilities and infrastructure to reinstate business operations 
as quickly as possible after an event. The continual review of these plans forms part of the management review process 
alongside environmental management and health, safety and welfare. 
A more detailed CR report is available on our website at www.arm.com 28 ARM Holdings plc
Directors' report
The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activities and review of business
The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, research and development of RISC-
based microprocessors, physical IP and associated systems IP and tools. The nature of the global semiconductor industry 
is such that most of its business is conducted overseas and, to serve its customers better, the Group has sales offices around 
the world. These include six offices in the US and offices in Shanghai and Beijing, PR China; Shin-Yokohama, Japan; 
Seoul, South Korea; Taipei, Taiwan; Kfar Saba, Israel; Paris, France; Munich, Germany and Bangalore, India. Design 
offices are based in Cambridge, Maidenhead, Sheffield and Blackburn, UK; Sophia Antipolis and Grenoble, France; 
Leuven-Heverlee, Belgium; Aachen and Grasbrunn, Germany; Trondheim, Norway; Sentjernej, Slovenia; Lund, Sweden; 
Austin, Texas, Olympia, Washington and San Jose, California in the US and Bangalore, India. More information about 
the business and key performance indicators are set out in the business review comprising the Chairman's statement on 
pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive Officer's review of operations on pages 5 to 8, the financial review on pages 11 to 15 
and the corporate responsibility report on pages 26 and 27.
Future developments
The Group's stated objective is to establish a global standard for its RISC architecture, physical IP and other products in 
the embedded microprocessor and semiconductor markets. The directors believe that, in order to achieve this goal, it is 
important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology. The Group intends to enter into licence 
agreements with new customers and to increase the range of new technology supplied to existing customers. Relationships 
will continue to be established with third-party tools and software vendors to ensure that their products will operate with 
the Group's products. As a result of its position in its industry, the Group is presented with many opportunities to acquire 
complementary technology or resources and it intends to continue to make appropriate acquisitions from time to time.
Going concern
After dividend payments of  26.4 million and spending  40.3 million on the share buyback programme in 2008, the 
Group grew its cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities balance to  78.8 million at 
the end of 2008 from  51.3 million at the start of the year. After reviewing the 2009 budget and longer-term plans, the 
directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements of both the Group and the parent company.
Dividends
The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2008 of 1.32 pence per share which, 
subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 14 May 2009, will be paid on 20 May 2009 to shareholders 
on the register on 1 May 2009. This final dividend, combined with the interim dividend of 0.88 pence per share paid 
during the year, makes a total of 2.2 pence per share for the year, an increase of 10% on the total dividend of 2.0 pence 
per share for 2007. 
Share buyback programme
In accordance with the rolling authority given by shareholders at the 2007 AGM, 41.2 million shares (representing 3.1% 
of the issued share capital) of 0.05 pence each were bought back by the Company in 2008 (2007: 94.5 million shares)  
at a total cost of  40.3 million (2007:  128.6 million). In 2009 to date, no shares have been bought back, but the buyback 
programme remains in place and may be used during the year, if appropriate.
Research and development (R&D)
R&D is of major importance and, as part of its research activities, the Group collaborates closely with universities world-
wide and plans to continue its successful engagement with Michigan University. Key areas of product development 
for 2009 include the development of further energy efficient, high-performance engines for both data and control 
applications such as ARM cores based on symmetric multiprocessor and superscalar technology. The Group is investing 
in future physical IP development including low-power, low-leakage technologies for both bulk CMOS (complementary 
metal oxide semiconductor) and SOI (silicon on insulator) processes to ensure leadership in this market. In addition, the 
Group will deliver development tools, graphics processors and fabric IP to enable its customers to design and programme 
systems-on-chip (SoCs). 
The Group incurred R&D expenses of  87.6 million in 2008, representing 29.3% of revenues, compared with  84.0 million 
in 2007. R&D expenses have been charged to the income statement since the requirements for capitalisation were not 
met. The requirements for capitalisation are considered in more detail in note 1 on page 53.
Donations
During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes of  42,290 (2007:  41,214). The total amounts given  
for each such purpose were: 
Local charities          14,435
Promotion of education         1,300
Wider understanding of science, maths and information technology      18.250
Medical research         1,005
Relief of poverty          4,047
Other           3,253 ARM Holdings plc 29
ARM employees are encouraged to offer their time and expertise to help charities and other groups in need. The Group 
operates a gift matching system for employee fundraising. The Group does not make any political donations. 
Directors in the year
The following served as directors of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2008:
Doug Dunn OBE (Chairman)  
Warren East (Chief Executive Officer)  
Tim Score (Chief Financial Officer)  
Tudor Brown (President from 1 July 2008, previously Chief Operating Officer) 
Mike Muller (Chief Technology Officer)  
Mike Inglis (General Manager, Processor Division from 1 July 2008, previously EVP Sales and Marketing)  
Simon Segars (General Manager, Physical IP Division)  
Lucio Lanza (independent non-executive director)  
Kathleen O'Donovan (independent non-executive director and financial expert)  
Philip Rowley (independent non-executive director and financial expert)  
John Scarisbrick (independent non-executive director)  
Jeremy Scudamore (senior independent non-executive director)  
Young Sohn (independent non-executive director) 
(See pages 18 and 19 for the directors' biographies.)
Election and re-election of directors
In accordance with Article 79 of the Group's articles of association, Mike Inglis will retire by rotation at the Company's 
AGM and will seek re-election at that meeting. 
Directors' shareholdings in the Company
The interests of the directors in the Company's ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held,  
are disclosed in the remuneration report on page 36.
The additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive  
is set out below:
Share capital
As at 31 December 2008, ARM's share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each and there 
were 1,344,055,696 ordinary shares in issue (2007: 1,344,055,696) of which 91,160,488 ordinary shares were held in 
treasury (2007: 65,201,176). The rights attached to treasury shares are restricted in accordance with the Companies Acts. 
The rights attached to ordinary shares are as follows:
1  On a show of hands at a general meeting, every shareholder present in person (or, in the case of a corporation, present 
at the meeting by way of a representative) and entitled to vote shall have one vote and every proxy present who has 
been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote; 
2  On a poll, every shareholder present in person (or in the case of a corporation, present at the meeting by way  
of a representative) or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held; 
3  Shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes; and 
4  Shareholders are entitled to participate in a return of capital on a winding-up. 
The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation  
to resolutions to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation 
to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on ARM's website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in ARM other than:
-  Restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, those relating to market 
abuse and insider dealing);
-  Restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority under which certain 
employees of ARM require the approval of the Company to deal in shares;
-  Restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed under article 61.2 of ARM's articles of association or under 
Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in either case following a failure to supply information required to be disclosed 
following service of a request under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006; and
-  Restrictions on transfer of shares held under certain of the Company's employee share plans while they remain subject  
to the plan. 30 ARM Holdings plc
Directors' report/  
continued
Substantial shareholdings
The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at  
20 March 2009:
        Percentage of issued  
        ordinary share capital
Janus Capital Corporation        13.30%
Thornburg Investment Management        10.17%
Capital Group Companies        9.03%
Fidelity Investments        5.12%
Invesco         4.99%
Wellington Management Company       4.98%
Legal and General Investment Management       3.96%
Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as at 20 March 2009, of any material interest of 3% or more  
or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Appointment of directors
ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a director. ARM must have not less than two 
and no more than 16 directors holding office at all times. ARM may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the 
minimum and/or maximum number of directors. 
At each AGM, any director who was elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year 
before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation. A retiring director is eligible for re-election unless the 
directors have agreed otherwise.
The directors may appoint a director to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director to hold office until the next 
AGM, who shall then be eligible for election.
Articles of association
ARM's articles of association may be amended only by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. 
Directors' authority
The directors are responsible for the management of the business of ARM and may exercise all powers of ARM subject  
to applicable legislation and regulation and the memorandum and articles of association.
At the 2008 AGM, the directors were given authority to buy back a maximum number of 127,208,000 ordinary shares  
at a minimum price of 0.05 pence each. The maximum price was an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing 
mid market prices of ARM's ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased. This 
authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 14 August 2009.
Accordingly, resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution at the 2009 AGM to give ARM authority to acquire  
up to 126,012,000 ordinary shares following expiry of the current authority. The directors will use this authority only 
after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, 
appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of ARM. In particular, this authority will be exercised only if the 
directors believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and will increase earnings per share.
Resolution 7 to be proposed at the 2009 AGM will authorise the directors generally to allot up to  210,020 in nominal 
amount of ordinary shares, and in addition will authorise the directors to allot up to a further  210,020 in nominal amount 
of ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue  (as defined in resolution 7). Further, resolution 8 will authorise the 
directors to allot ordinary shares (or sell treasury shares) for cash (i) otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer  (as defined in resolution 8) up to an aggregate nominal amount of  33,600, or (ii) in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer up to an aggregate nominal amount of  210,020, or (iii) in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal 
amount of  210,020, in each case as if section 89(1) of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment (or sale). 
The period of authorisation will in each case expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2010 AGM or on 13 August 2010. 
Change of control
All of ARM's equity-based plans contain provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding awards and options 
would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance 
conditions at that time.
There are no significant agreements to which ARM is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control.
Disabled persons
The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or 
career development. In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would 
be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer 
able to continue in their current role.  ARM Holdings plc 31
Employee involvement
As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in its decision-making 
processes. To this end, internal conferences and communications meetings are held regularly which involve employees 
from all parts of the Group in discussions on future strategy and developments. Furthermore, employee share ownership 
is encouraged and all employees are able to participate in one of the Group's schemes to encourage share ownership. 
The Group has an informal and delegated organisational structure. It does not presently operate any collective 
agreements with any trade unions.
Policy on payment of creditors
The Group's policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the month following the month of receipt of the invoice, unless 
terms have been specifically agreed in advance. This policy and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made 
known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request. Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2008 were 
equivalent to 25 days' purchases for the Group (2007: ten days) and nil days for the Company in both years. 
Financial instruments
The Group's financial risk management and policies and exposure to risks in relation to financial instruments are  
detailed in note 1c.
Essential contracts
There are no parties with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business  
of the Group.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK, on 14 May 2009 at 2.30pm. A presentation will 
be made at this meeting outlining recent developments in the business. The Group will convey the results of proxy votes 
cast at the AGM and on the website after the AGM. Shareholders are invited to submit written questions in advance of 
the meeting. Questions should be sent to The Company Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge 
CB1 9NJ, UK.
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the AGM. Details of 
other resolutions to be proposed at the meeting are set out in the Circular and Notice of AGM 2009 which will be made 
available to all shareholders together with a proxy card.
Statement of directors' responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors' remuneration report and the Group and the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the directors' remuneration report 
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
-  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
-  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
-  State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the 
parent company financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
-  Prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority to include  
a report containing a fair view of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company  
and the Group. These are set out in the financial review on pages 11 to 15.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements 
and the directors' remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities. 32 ARM Holdings plc
Directors' report/  
continued
Directors' statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the directors whose names and functions are described in the biographies on pages 18 and 19 confirm that  
to the best of each person's knowledge and belief:
-  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group; and
-  The directors' report and the financial review on pages 11 to 15 include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the Group's website. Legislation in the  
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
Disclosure of information to auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are directors at the time when the report is approved, the following applies:
-  So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group's auditors are unaware.
-  Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in his or her duty as a director in order to  
make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group's auditors are aware  
of that information
By order of the board 
Patricia Alsop, Company Secretary ARM Holdings plc 33
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, 
the Group's policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for each executive 
director. This includes basic salary, annual bonus, the level and terms of conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan 
and the terms of performance conditions that apply to such benefits, pension rights and any compensation payments. Where 
the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make recommendations in relation to the remuneration 
of senior management. The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the board's annual report  
to shareholders on the Group's policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors' remuneration 
report, as required by the Companies Act 1985, the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.  
The committee's terms of reference are published on the company's website at www.arm.com. 
The committee is chaired by Jeremy Scudamore and the other members are Kathleen O'Donovan, Young Sohn and John 
Scarisbrick, who joined the committee in September 2008. The committee met three times during 2008. Given their diverse 
experience, these four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view and international expertise 
in relation to remuneration issues for the Group. The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers 
(generally appointed by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources) in the furtherance of its duties and makes 
use of such advice. During 2008, KPMG provided general advice on remuneration and benefits, including tax advice 
for employees who are seconded overseas and they also worked on royalty audits and the acquisition of Logipard AB. 
Linklaters provided legal services in relation to equity plans and corporate matters. Monks provided salary survey data. 
Deloitte provided salary survey data, royalty audit services and tax training. Kepler Associates provided independent 
verification of TSR calculations for the Long Term Incentive Plan. The Executive Vice President, Human Resources also 
provided advice to the committee and to the Group. Monks, which provided salary survey data, is an associate of the 
Group's external auditor and these services were approved by the audit committee in accordance with the procedure 
described in the corporate governance report. The Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President, Human 
Resources, normally attend for part of remuneration committee meetings. No director is involved in deciding his or  
her own remuneration.
The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors and senior managers and the Employee Equity Plan for all other 
employees were approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM. These plans brought the Group's remuneration structure 
more closely in line with UK market norms, increased alignment between remuneration and financial performance  
and strengthened the retention aspect of the deferred bonus. Cessation of option grants to executive directors (other than 
in exceptional circumstances) and the reduction from three plans to two for executive directors and senior managers, 
together with the move away from options to shares for all employees, reduces potential dilution and has simplified 
remuneration arrangements.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration committee, in its deliberations on remuneration policy for the Group's executive directors, seeks  
to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code. The committee is able to consider corporate 
performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive 
directors. The committee also monitors developments in accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy and framework for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts  
and retains the high quality management skills necessary to achieve a high level of corporate performance, in line with 
the best interests of shareholders. This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive 
directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the Group. These comprise a mix of performance-
related and non-performance-related remuneration. The committee believes that a director's total remuneration should 
seek to recognise his worth in the external market and, to this end, operates a policy of paying base salaries which are 
in line with the market median, as part of a total remuneration package which is upper quartile. The committee believes 
that this is justified, recognising that more than 50% of total potential remuneration is performance-related. The committee 
obtains information about the external market from various independently published remuneration surveys and is 
committed to benchmarking the total remuneration package.
However for 2009, recognising current market conditions and the uncertainty over when the global economy will start 
to improve, the board took the decision to postpone the annual pay review across the Group and to review the situation 
at the mid year in the light of actual business performance and prospects for the remainder of the year and 2010. This 
applies to all employees and to the board, including executive and non-executive directors.
The nature of the Group's development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment  
of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration. Since 2007, variable remuneration has consisted  
of two performance-related elements: annual bonus and a conditional award under the Long Term Incentive Plan.  
A shareholding guideline is in place for executive directors and certain senior managers, who are required to build up 
a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years. The shareholdings may be built up of shares received 
through earlier grants under the Company's share option schemes and/or the Long Term Incentive Plan and/or the 
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and, in the case of executive directors, the required holding is 100% of basic salary.
Remuneration report 34 ARM Holdings plc
Remuneration report/  
continued
Incentive arrangements
The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success  
of the Group. The various incentive schemes that comprise the remuneration packages of executive directors and  
senior managers are described below.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
There is a strong variable element to executive directors' remuneration and a bonus of up to 125% of base salary  
(after application of a personal performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25) can be earned  
through the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DAB) if all targets are met. The personal performance multiplier depends  
on the achievement of pre-determined objectives which are reviewed and approved by the committee each year.  
These include key strategic objectives related to each director's role and responsibilities including compliance with  
the Management Charter which is designed to foster employee development, understanding of the overall vision  
and strategy of the Group and good governance.
There is compulsory deferral into shares of 50% of the bonus earned and an opportunity to earn an equity match 
of up to 2:1, subject to achievement of an EPS performance condition. Deferred shares and any matching shares 
earned will normally be transferred three years from the date of award. Payment of the bonus for 2008 was subject 
to the achievement of US dollar revenue and normalised operating profit targets set by the remuneration committee, 
which were directly related to the Group's financial results. The bonuses payable to executive directors in respect of 
performance during 2008 are shown in the table on page 41 and are in the range 69.0% to 70.7% of base salary, 50%  
of which was compulsorily deferred into shares. For 2008, 50% of bonus was dependent on achieving a US dollar revenue 
target and 50% on achieving a normalised operating profit target. At EPS growth equal to the increase in the Consumer 
Prices Index (CPI) plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when EPS growth 
is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum. The deferred shares can be forfeited in the event of gross misconduct and the 
matching shares are subject to forfeiture for bad leavers . 
For 2009, 30% of bonus is dependent on achieving a US dollar revenue target and 70% on achieving a normalised 
operating profit target, which the committee believes have been set at challenging but motivational levels. These targets 
are directly related to the Group's financial results and encourage achievement of the Group's short-term financial goals, 
while the deferral and matching elements encourage a longer term view of the success of the Group. Maximum bonus  
is 125% of base salary depending on the personal performance multiplier described above.
Existing option schemes
The grant of options under the existing share option schemes ceased in 2006 when the DAB and the Employee Equity 
Plan were approved by shareholders. The Employee Equity Plan has the facility for option grants to be made, but this 
will be done only in exceptional circumstances. The existing option grants to executive directors remain available for 
exercise and vesting in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes. In line with practice among the Group's peers 
in the technology sector, there are generally no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary 
options under the existing schemes, except for those issued to executive directors where performance conditions based 
on real EPS growth apply. Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the Group 
do not have performance conditions attached to them. However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after 
their appointment to the board of the Group do have performance conditions attached to them. These discretionary 
options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant to the extent that the performance 
conditions are satisfied. 
The performance conditions applicable to the Long Term Incentive Plan are described in more detail below and are 
based on TSR rather than EPS, providing the link to performance against an appropriate peer group.
These performance conditions were selected having regard to the position of the Group within its sector and the nature  
of the companies against which it competes to attract and retain high calibre employees. The committee believes that 
the performance conditions represent the correct balance between being motivational and challenging.
Pensions
The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is 
a money purchase scheme. For executive directors, the normal rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executive's basic 
salary plus additional amounts in accordance with the Group's salary sacrifice scheme. Full details of Group contributions 
are set out in the directors' emoluments table on page 41. 
Service agreements
Executive directors have rolling  service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one year's notice. These 
agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis and contain restrictive covenants 
for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Group's 
customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Group's suppliers and employees. In addition, each service 
contract contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Group's trade secrets and confidential information  
and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.