 08 asia digital holdings PLC  annual report and accounts 2010
report on remuneration
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Directors' remuneration
The Board recognises that Directors' remuneration is of legitimate concern to shareholders and is committed to following current best practice. 
The Group operates within a competitive environment and its performance depends on the individual contributions of the Directors and employees. 
It believes in rewarding vision and innovation. The Board has decided to present this remuneration report for shareholder approval so that the 
shareholders can approve the policy set out in this report. 
Policy on Executive Directors' remuneration
The policy of the Board is to provide an executive remuneration package designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the calibre necessary 
to maintain the Group's position and to reward them for enhancing shareholder value and return. It aims to provide sufficient levels of remuneration 
to do this but to avoid paying more than is necessary. The remuneration should also reflect the Directors' responsibilities and include incentives 
to deliver the Company's objectives. The notice period for termination of the Executive Director's service contract is 12 months.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Company's general policy on executive 
remuneration and also specific packages for individual Directors. It carries out the policy on behalf of the Board.
The membership of the Committee is as follows:
I David Lees (Chairman); and 
I Keith Lassman.
David Lees and Keith Lassman are independent Non-Executive Directors. Neither of them have any personal financial interest in the matters 
to be decided (other than as shareholders, share option holders and those disclosed in note 20 to the financial statements), potential conflicts 
of interest arising from cross-directorships nor any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee meets as required to determine executive remuneration policy.
Main elements of executive remuneration
There are four main elements of the Executive Director's remuneration package:
i. fees; 
ii. annual bonus payments; 
iii. share-based payments; and 
iv. pension contributions.
Fees
The Executive Director's basic salary is reviewed by the Committee. In deciding upon appropriate levels of remuneration, the Committee 
believes that the Group should offer average levels of base pay reflecting individual responsibilities compared to similar jobs in comparable 
companies, as well as internal factors such as performance.
Annual bonus payments
The Committee establishes the objectives which must be met for a bonus to be paid. A performance related award scheme incorporating 
audited earnings per share, share price performance and Group profitability has been established which recognises the success of the 
business for which the Executive Director is responsible. Bonus payments are non-pensionable.
Share-based payments
The interests of Directors in the Company's share options and shares are detailed in notes 4 and 20 to the financial statements.
Pension contributions
All pension entitlements for the Directors are disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements. 09 asia digital holdings PLC  annual report and accounts 2010
Non-Executive Directors
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. 
Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service but letters of appointment. 
Details of Directors' remuneration 
This report should be read in conjunction with notes 4 and 20 to the financial statements, which also form part of this report. Full details of 
all elements of the remuneration package of each Director are given in note 4 to the financial statements, together with details of Directors' 
share interests. 
David Lees
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 April 2011
 