  
vela technologies PLC           
annual report and accounts 2013   
 
7 
report on remuneration 
for the year ended 31 March 2013 
 
Directors' remuneration 
The Board recognises that Directors' remuneration is of legitimate concern to shareholders and is 
committed to following current best practice. The Company operates within a competitive environment 
and its performance depends on the individual contributions of the Directors and employees. It believes 
in rewarding vision and innovation. The Board has decided to present this remuneration report for 
shareholder approval.  
 
Policy on Executive Directors' remuneration 
The policy of the Board is to provide an executive remuneration package designed to attract, motivate 
and retain Directors of the calibre necessary to maintain the Company's position and to reward them for 
enhancing shareholder value and return. It aims to provide sufficient levels of remuneration to do this 
but to avoid paying more than is necessary. The remuneration should also reflect the Directors' 
responsibilities and include incentives to deliver the Company's objectives. The notice period for 
termination of the Executive Director's service contract is 12 months. 
As the Company is in the early stages of building an investment portfolio the Company has elected not 
to have a separate remuneration committee. The Board as a whole will instead review the scale and 
structure of Directors' fees, taking into account the interests of shareholders and the performance of the 
Company. 
 
Main elements of executive remuneration 
There are four proposed elements of the Executive Director's remuneration package: 
i. fees; 
ii. annual bonus payments; 
iii. share-based payments; and 
iv. pension contributions. 
 
Fees 
The Executive Director's basic salary is reviewed by the Board. In deciding upon appropriate levels of 
remuneration, the Board believes that the Company should offer average levels of base pay reflecting 
individual responsibilities compared to similar jobs in comparable companies, as well as internal factors 
such as performance. 
 
Annual bonus payments 
The Committee establishes the objectives which must be met for a bonus to be paid. A performance 
related award scheme incorporating audited earnings per share, share price performance and Company 
profitability has been established which recognises the success of the business for which the Executive 
Director is responsible. Bonus payments are non-pensionable. 
 
Share-based payments 
The Directors' interest in the shares of the Company are detailed in notes 4 and 12 to the financial 
statements. 
 
Pension contributions 
All pension entitlements for the Directors are disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements. 
 
Non-Executive Directors 
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive 
Directors do not have contracts of service but letters of appointment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
vela technologies PLC           
annual report and accounts 2013   
 
8 
report on remuneration 
for the year ended 31 March 2013 
 
Details of Directors' remuneration  
This report should be read in conjunction with notes 4 and 12 to the financial statements, which also 
form part of this report. Full details of all elements of the remuneration package of each Director are 
given in note 4 to the financial statements, together with details of Directors' share interests.  
 
 
 
 
 
Nigel Brent Fitzpatrick MBE 
Chairman  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 