 59 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 December 2013
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Dear Shareholder, 
The last 12 months have been an eventful period for Asia Resource Minerals plc. We were faced with several significant challenges 
in the year, including non-compliance with certain policies and lack of disclosure by former PT Berau management leading to 
internal reviews, which culminated in an extensive review of the financial position at PT Berau, the enhancement to the design of 
our internal controls and the temporary suspension and re-listing of our shares.  
In addition to devoting a considerable amount of time to these matters, management also focused on the core business and 
supported the INEDs in their efforts to bring the Separation Transaction (which involved the Company's major shareholders and 
was approved at the EGM held on 17 December 2013) to a successful conclusion.  
Thanks to Asia Resource Mineral's resilience, we are now emerging from this turbulent period with a renewed vision of becoming  
a leading UK listed Asian resources company, with a clear focus on maximising the coal mining opportunity at PT Berau.  
The major changes implemented in 2013 were key steps towards achieving this vision, including: 
- the appointment of the first unaffiliated CEO of the Company, Nick von Schirnding, who started on 1 January 2013; 
- the removal of former directors at PT Berau and installing a new management team at PT Berau, including the appointment of  
a new President Director; and 
- further strengthening of Asia Resource Minerals management team, through the appointment of Paul Fenby as Chief Financial 
Officer and Keith Downham as Chief Mining Officer, both based in Jakarta.  
These significant changes have been reflected in the key activities of the Remuneration Committee in the year, which included: 
- agreeing appropriate remuneration packages and service contracts for the Company's new management appointments in  
the year; 
- establishing a stronger relationship with the remuneration committee of PT Berau, whilst respecting its status as a  
listed company in Indonesia, through the appointment of Nick von Schirnding, the Company's CEO, to the PT Berau  
remuneration committee;  
- overseeing the grants of the long term incentive awards under the Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan, which were made in 
December 2013 once the Company was outside a close period; and 
- overseeing the adoption of the new directors' remuneration reporting regulations, enacted during the year, including a review  
of our Executive Director remuneration policy to ensure it remains appropriate.  
The Committee determined that the current remuneration policy remains appropriate, and as such, there have been no major 
changes in the year. The CEO's salary will remain frozen at its current level for 2014.  
You will see that the format of the report has changed from previous years. As required under the new disclosure regulations, 
details have been split between a Remuneration Policy Report, which will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM, and  
an Annual Remuneration Report, which will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote.  
The Committee remains committed to good corporate governance, and will continue to monitor our investors' views, best practice 
developments and market trends on executive remuneration.  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for their hard work and valuable input during the year. 
 
Steve Shapiro 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
   60 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT (UNAUDITED) 
This part of the report sets out Asia Resource Minerals' Directors' remuneration policy (the Policy ). This Policy will be subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM and, subject to that approval, will become effective from that date.  
The Policy is intended to apply for three years. However, the Committee monitors remuneration policy on a regular basis and 
should the Committee resolve that the Policy should be revised, such revisions will be subject to a binding shareholder vote. 
Remuneration policy table 
Element 
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Base salary To attract and 
retain the high 
calibre talent 
required to 
deliver the 
Group's 
strategy.  
Base salaries are normally 
reviewed annually. 
When determining salary levels, 
the Committee considers a number 
of factors, including: 
  size and scope of the individual's 
responsibility;  
  performance, skills and expertise; 
  market competitive positioning; 
and 
  pay and conditions elsewhere in 
the Company. 
There is no defined 
maximum opportunity. 
Typically salary 
increases will be in line 
with all-employee 
salary increases in the 
UK. Exceptions may  
be made in a range  
of circumstances, 
including:  
  increase in scope or 
responsibility; 
  development and 
performance in the 
role; and 
  alignment to market 
levels. 
None 
Benefits To provide  
a market 
competitive 
benefits 
package for  
the size, nature 
and location of 
the role.  
Benefits include private health 
insurance for the Executive 
Director and his family, life and 
permanent health assurance  
and provision of a company car.  
The Committee may add or  
remove benefits if it considers  
it appropriate. 
In the event of relocation (either  
to the UK or abroad) benefits  
may include additional expatriate 
benefits, such as travel allowances, 
school fees, housing allowance and 
assistance with tax compliance 
fees, if appropriate. 
Although the 
Committee do not 
consider it appropriate 
to set a maximum 
benefits level, benefits 
are positioned at an 
appropriate market 
level for the nature and 
location of the role. 
None 
Pension 
allowance 
To provide  
a market 
competitive  
post retirement 
benefit. 
Defined contribution post 
retirement benefit, set as a 
percentage of base salary. 
The benefit may be delivered in  
the form of a cash allowance. 
15% of base salary. None 
   61 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Element 
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
Annual  
bonus 
To link reward 
to the delivery 
of strong annual 
performance 
and stretching 
targets. 
Deferral into 
shares further 
strengthens 
long term 
alignment with 
shareholders. 
Targets and measures are 
considered annually and payout 
levels are determined by the 
Committee after year end based on 
performance against key financial, 
operational and strategic objectives 
in the year. 
A portion of annual bonus 
payments will generally be 
deferred into an award of Asia 
Resource Minerals plc shares.  
Awards will normally be granted  
in the form of nil-cost options  
or conditional share awards.  
These awards will normally  
vest, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, on the  
third anniversary of grant. 
Maximum annual 
opportunity of 150%  
of base salary. 
Performance is measured 
relative to key financial, 
operational, strategic and 
individual objectives in  
the year. 
The exact measures selected 
and their weighting may vary 
each year according to the 
strategic priorities of the 
Company. In normal 
circumstances, at least 70% 
will be based on Group and 
corporate measures.  
The remainder will be based 
on performance against 
individual objectives. 
The entry award level for 
Group and corporate measures 
is 25% of maximum, rising to 
100% of maximum.  
The Committee retains 
discretion to adjust bonus 
payments to reflect the overall 
financial performance of the 
Company, inadequate safety 
performance or a material 
corporate governance failure.  
Long term 
incentive  
plan 
To provide a 
performance 
related 
element, linked 
to the delivery 
of shareholder 
value over the 
long term.  
Awards are granted under the Asia 
Resource Minerals Incentive Plan, 
with the vesting of awards granted 
to Executive Directors subject to 
performance conditions measured 
over a period of, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, 
at least three years.  
Awards are normally made in the 
form of nil-cost options, with a  
10 year term. The Committee may, 
however, grant awards in other 
forms such as conditional share 
awards, forfeitable shares,  
market value options or stock 
appreciation rights.  
The maximum value of 
awards an individual 
may receive in respect 
of a financial year is 
200% of salary except 
in exceptional 
circumstances 
determined by the 
Committee when the 
Committee may make 
an award not exceeding 
400% of salary. 
Awards will normally 
be valued using the 
market value of shares 
at a point prior to grant. 
Awards of market value 
options will typically  
be valued using an 
accepted financial 
valuation methodology. 
Vesting of awards is dependent 
on financial, operational and/or 
share price measures, as set 
by the Committee, which are 
aligned with long term 
strategic objectives at the 
Company. No less than half  
of an award will be based  
on share price measures.  
The remainder will be based 
on either financial, operational 
or share price measures. 
In addition, vesting is subject  
to the Committee being 
satisfied that the vesting 
outcome suitably reflects  
the underlying financial 
performance of the Company.  
No more than 25% of the 
award will vest for threshold 
performance, rising to 100% 
for maximum performance. 
   62 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Element 
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Non-
Executive 
Director  
fees 
To attract and 
retain the high 
calibre talent 
required to 
deliver the 
Group's 
strategy. 
Fees for Non-Executive Directors 
are determined by the Chairman 
and the CEO. Remuneration of the 
Chairman is set by the Committee. 
Fees are comprised of a basic 
annual fee and additional fees. 
Additional fees are paid in respect 
of additional Board responsibilities, 
such as chairmanship/membership 
of Board committees and senior 
independent directorship, or where 
attendance at meetings requires 
more than 12 hours' travel. 
Expenses incurred in the 
performance of non-executive 
duties for the Company may be 
reimbursed or paid for directly  
by the Company, as appropriate, 
including any tax due on  
the benefits. 
All fees are payable in cash, 
although the Company retains the 
right to make payment in shares. 
Non-Executive Directors are not 
eligible to participate in any Group 
incentive schemes. 
Fees are set at a level 
to attract and retain 
individuals with the 
required skills and 
experience to allow  
the Board to carry out 
its duties effectively, 
taking into account  
the time and travel 
commitment required 
and responsibility of  
the roles. 
Total fees paid to Non-
Executive Directors will 
remain within the limit 
stated in the Articles of 
Association. 
None 
Notes to the Policy Table 
Deferred bonus and LTIP awards are subject to a malus provision, whereby the Committee may determine that awards may be 
forfeited or reduced. This may apply where the Committee determines that: (a) there has been significant financial losses or 
misstatements of the accounts, or (b) a participant's conduct has either contributed to material losses or serious reputational 
damage or has amounted to serious misconduct, fraud or misstatement. Other elements of remuneration are not subject to 
recovery provisions. 
The Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan and the Company's deferred bonus arrangements will be operated in accordance with 
the relevant plan rules, as amended from time to time in accordance with those rules (the former of which was approved by 
shareholders in 2011). In particular: 
- the performance condition applicable to LTIP awards may be amended or substituted in accordance with its terms or if an event 
occurs or circumstances arise which cause the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine that a substituted or 
amended performance condition would be appropriate (taking into account the interests of the shareholders of the Company) 
provided that the amended performance condition would continue to achieve its original purpose;  
- LTIP and deferred bonus awards may be settled in cash, at the discretion of the Committee;  
- the terms of the LTIP and deferred bonus awards may be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Company's share capital, 
any consolidation of profits or reserves, special dividend, delisting, demerger or other events justifying, in the Committee's 
opinion, an adjustment; 
- in the event of a change of control or winding up of Asia Resource Minerals plc, LTIP awards will normally vest to the extent the 
performance conditions, in the Committee's opinion, have been met and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, on a time 
pro-rated basis. Deferred bonus awards will normally vest in full. Awards will typically be exercisable for a period of four weeks 
after vesting. The Committee may, in the event of a demerger, special dividend or other event that may affect the value of awards, 
allow awards to vest early on the same basis; and 
- LTIP and deferred bonus awards may incorporate the right to receive (in cash or shares) the value of dividends which would have 
been paid in respect of dividend record dates between the grant and satisfaction of awards on the shares that vest. This value 
may be calculated assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Company's shares. 
   63 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising any 
discretions available to it in connection with such payments) that are not line with the Policy where the terms of the payment  
were agreed: 
(i) before the Policy came into effect; or 
(ii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was 
not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.  
For these purposes payments  includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares is 
agreed  at the time the award is granted. 
Minor changes 
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes, or to 
take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.  
Performance measures and targets  
Annual bonus 
Annual bonus performance measures and targets are selected by the Committee on an annual basis to align the Executive 
Directors to the delivery of the Group business plan and strategy. When setting the performance targets, the Committee will 
consider a number of different factors including the Board's strategic priorities, the Group's business plan and outlook for the 
financial year. 
Long term incentive Plan 
Performance measures and targets are determined by the Committee to reflect the Group's strategy and to align Executive 
Directors with long term value creation for shareholders. When setting performance targets, the Committee considers market 
practice within the relevant business sector and the desire to outperform appropriate comparators.  
Illustration of the Policy 
The chart below shows the potential split between different elements of the Executive Director's remuneration under different 
performance scenarios.  
 
 
  Minimum'  Target'  Maximum' 
Fixed remuneration Base salary Latest known annual base salary 
 Pension 15% of base salary 
 Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided in 2013 
Annual variable remuneration (cash and 
deferred shares
1
) 
 
0% of salary 50%  
of maximum 
opportunity 
100% 
of maximum 
opportunity 
Long term incentive plan
1
  0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting 
1. At face value, excluding potential share price growth and dividends. 
  
Minimum
Target
Maximum
2,000,000 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000
CEO
100%  504k
51%
28% 36%  1,809k 36%
33%  993k 16%
Fixed remuneration
Long term incentive plan
Annual variable remuneration (cash and deferred shares) 64 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Remuneration arrangements across the Group 
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors follows the same broad principles in place for all employees: to provide competitive 
rewards to attract and retain employees of the appropriate calibre to deliver on the Group strategy.  
Differences in policy for Executive Directors, senior management and other employees in the Group generally reflect differences in 
market practice taking into account role, seniority and geographical location.  
The remuneration policies for Executive Directors and the senior management team are generally consistent in terms of structure 
and the performance measures used.  
Approach to recruitment remuneration 
The Committee would apply the following principles on appointment of a new Executive Director: 
- in determining the appropriate remuneration package, the Committee would take into account all relevant factors, including the 
size and complexity of the business at the time of recruitment, the complexity, importance and size of the role, the calibre and 
experience of the individual and the market from which they are recruited;  
- where the new appointment is replacing a previous Executive Director, salaries and total remuneration opportunity may be 
higher or lower than the previous incumbent;  
- so far as practical, the Committee would seek to align the remuneration package for any incoming Executive Director within the 
remuneration policy set out in the table above;  
- the Committee may determine that buyout awards are required to facilitate the recruitment of Directors of the calibre needed to 
deliver the Group's strategic priorities. Any buyout would take into account the terms of the arrangements being forfeited (e.g. 
form of award, performance conditions, timeframe). The overriding principle is that any buyout should have a commercial value 
of no more than the estimated value of awards being forfeited. The form of any buyout award would be determined at the time; 
- the Committee retains the flexibility to determine that for the first year of appointment any annual bonus award will be subject to 
such conditions as it may determine; and 
- the maximum variable remuneration that may be granted at the time of recruitment (excluding buyouts) would be in line with  
the remuneration policy set out in the table above. Such variable pay could, in exceptional circumstances, be delivered via 
alternative structures to those outlined in the policy set out in the table above, with the intention that a significant portion  
would be share based. 
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy 
arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions. Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed 
following an acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.  
The Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside of the Policy to meet the individual 
circumstances of the recruitment in the circumstances of an interim appointment to fill an Executive Director role on a short term 
basis or a Non-Executive Director or the Chairman taking on an executive function on a short term basis. 
Recruitment of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, their fees will typically be in line with the remuneration policy as 
set out in the table above. Any specific cash or share arrangements delivered to the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors will not 
include share options or any other performance related elements.  
   65 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Service contracts and letters of appointment 
Executive Director 
The current Executive Director has a rolling service contract that provides for a 12 months' notice period from either side.  
The Company may terminate the Executive Director's employment by making a payment in lieu of notice of the unexpired notice 
period equivalent to a value comprising of salary, pension and contractual benefits. The Executive Director's service contract 
contains provisions relating to any payment in lieu of notice being made, at the discretion of the Committee, on a phased basis,  
and the reduction of any such payment if the Executive Director finds alternative employment within a year of ceasing employment 
with the Company.  
The following table sets out details of the service contract for the current Executive Director: 
Director Date of contract Notice period 
Nick von Schirnding 31 December 2012 12 months 
Non-Executive Directors and Chairman 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment. The appointment of the Chairman and each of the  
Non-Executive Directors is for an initial period of three years, which is renewable. A Non-Executive Director's appointment is 
terminable by the Non-Executive Director or the Company by giving written notice. Under Mr Tan's letter of appointment the  
Non-Executive Director and the Company are required to give three months' notice of termination. No contractual payments  
would be due on termination.  
The following table sets out details of the letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors who were in office at the year end.  
Director Role Date of appointment 
Samin Tan
1
 Chairman 26/03/2012 
Sir Julian Horn-Smith
2
 Senior Independent Director 22/02/2011 
Alexander Ramlie 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
14/06/2012 
Steven Shapiro 11/04/2011 
Amir Sambodo 11/04/2011 
Graham Holdaway 14/06/2012 
Sir Richard Gozney 21/02/2013 
1. Samin Tan was the Chairman of the Board in 2013. He stood down as Chairman on 27 March 2014 when Chris Walton, who was appointed to the Board as an INED on  
1 January 2014, became Chairman of the Board.  
2. Sir Julian Horn-Smith was Senior Independent Director in 2013. He stood down on 31 January 2014, when Nick Salmon, who was appointed an INED on 1 January 2014, 
became Senior Independent Director.  
The service contracts and/or letters of appointment for all Asia Resource Minerals plc Directors are available for inspection by 
shareholders at the Company's registered office.  
Loss of office payment policy 
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in 
accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the Executive Director, as well as the rules of any 
incentive plans.  
The Company considers a variety of factors when considering leaving arrangements for an Executive Director. It must satisfy any 
contractual obligations that have previously been agreed with the Executive Director that: (i) are not contrary to the Policy as set out 
in this report, or (ii) if so, not having been entered into on a date later than 27 June 2012, in accordance with relevant legislation.  
   66 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
In the event of termination, the following will apply:  
Payment in lieu of notice As set out above, the Company may terminate employment by making a payment in lieu 
of notice of the unexpired notice period equivalent to a value comprising of salary, 
pension and benefits. 
Annual bonus There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus. The Committee retains the 
discretion to award bonuses for leavers, taking into account the circumstances of 
departure. Any bonus would normally be subject to performance and time pro-rating.  
Deferred bonus awards Deferred bonus awards will normally vest when the individual ceases to hold office or 
employment with the Group, unless one of two exceptions apply. The first of these is 
where the individual has resigned, in which case his unvested awards will vest on the 
normal vesting date (unless the Committee determines they should vest earlier). Unless 
the Committee determines otherwise, the extent to which an unvested award vests in 
these circumstances will be time pro-rated by reference to the period of time between 
the grant and cessation of office or employment as a proportion of the vesting period. 
The second exception to the general rule is where the individual's office or employment 
is terminated for cause, in which case all awards will lapse unless the Committee 
determines otherwise.  
Vested awards are typically exercisable up to six months after the date of cessation, 
except where cessation is by reason of death, when awards would normally be 
exercisable for a period of 12 months thereafter. The Committee may, however, 
determine that alternative exercise windows are appropriate in individual circumstances.
Long term incentive plan awards Generally, any unvested awards will lapse when the individual ceases to hold office or 
employment with the Group, unless the Committee determines otherwise.  
If a participant ceases to be employed by the Group by reason of death, unvested awards 
will usually vest on the date of death. If the executive ceases to be an officer or employee 
of the Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, the individual's 
employing company or business being sold out of the Group, or for any other reasons at 
the discretion of the Committee, unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line 
with the normal vesting period. The Committee, however, retains the flexibility to 
determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment. In these circumstances 
(including cessation by reason of death), the Committee has the discretion to determine 
the proportion of an LTIP award that will vest, taking into account unless the Committee 
determines otherwise the extent to which the performance conditions have been met 
and the time elapsed since grant.  
Vested awards are typically exercisable up to six months after the date of cessation, 
except where cessation is by reason of death, when awards would normally be 
exercisable for a period of 12 months thereafter. The Committee may, however, 
determine that alternative exercise windows are appropriate in individual circumstances. 
No awards will vest or be exercisable if the Executive Director is summarily dismissed. 
In the event that a buyout award is made on recruitment, then the relevant leaver provisions would be determined at the time of  
the award. 
Consideration of wider employee pay elsewhere in the Group 
In making remuneration decisions for Directors, the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the 
Group. Given the diverse geographical markets in which employees operate, no direct comparison metrics are considered by the 
Committee. The Company does not consult with employees on Executive Director remuneration.  
Whilst a subsidiary of Asia Resource Minerals plc, PT Berau also retains a listing on the Indonesia stock exchange and therefore 
has its own remuneration committee. Their role is to establish and monitor executive remuneration arrangements for senior 
executives at PT Berau. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee remains committed to good corporate governance, and monitors investors' views, best practice developments and 
market trends on executive remuneration. Guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views are considered when determining 
the appropriate Director remuneration policy.  
The Committee welcomes shareholder feedback on Directors' remuneration at Asia Mineral Resources plc.  
   67 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT  
This section sets out details of how the Asia Resource Minerals Directors' Policy has been applied in the year ended 31 December 
2013 and how the Committee intends to apply the Policy in the 2014 financial year going forward. Those sections of the Annual 
Report on Remuneration that have been audited have been identified below.  
The Committee 
The Committee determines the remuneration policy in respect of the Chairman, Executive Director and other senior executives of 
Asia Resource Minerals plc. The Committee also reviews and administers all Asia Resource Minerals plc share incentive plans.  
The Chairman and Executive Director determine the fees for the Non-Executive Directors.  
The Committee currently comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors. Throughout the year the Committee consisted of 
Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Amir Sambodo. Steven Shapiro was appointed as Chairman of the Committee when Sir Graham Hearne 
did not seek re-election  at the Company's AGM held on 26 June 2013. Nick Salmon was appointed to the Committee on 27 March 
2014. A summary of attendance at each meeting is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 48.  
The members of the Committee are all INEDs and are free from any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out 
their responsibilities. The secretary to the Committee is the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.  
The Chairman of the Committee reports to subsequent meetings of the Board and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each 
meeting once these have been approved by the Committee. 
The Committee's terms of reference are available on the Company's website, www.asiarmplc.com, or can be obtained from the 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary. 
Base salary (Unaudited) 
Base salaries are reviewed annually and are set taking into consideration salary levels at UK listed companies of a similar size and 
complexity, practice in the UK listed mining sector and other relevant commercial considerations, such as the capabilities and 
experience of the individual, and the size, scope and responsibility of the role. 
When considering Executive Director remuneration, the Committee considers pay and employment conditions in the Company as  
a whole. Nick von Schirnding's current base salary was set upon his appointment to CEO on 31 December 2012. The Committee 
determined that his salary will remain unchanged for 2014. 
Name 2014 annual base salary ( ) 2013 annual base salary ( ) 
Nick von Schirnding  435,000 435,000 
Pension (Unaudited) 
The CEO receives a pension contribution of 15% of base salary. 
Annual bonus (Unaudited) 
The maximum award for the CEO in 2013 was 150% of base salary. This will remain unchanged for 2014. 
It is intended that annual bonus payments are based on the Committee's assessment of Company performance against stretching 
annual targets. Performance measures include financial, operational and strategic measures which the Committee determines to 
be most appropriate to support the delivery of the Company strategy. A range of measures are used to ensure that the bonus is well 
balanced and rewards the Executive Director for the achievement of a number of different objectives in the year. 
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust bonus payments to reflect the overall financial performance and health of the 
Company and inadequate safety performance or material corporate governance failure.  
Out-turn for 2013 (Audited) 
2013 was a challenging year for the Company. Due to the continuously changing landscape and exceptional circumstances faced by 
the Company, the Committee determined that it was not possible to set meaningful, pre-determined bonus performance measures 
and targets at the start of the year. Instead, it was decided that bonus payments in respect of 2013 would be determined at the year 
end, based on the Committee's assessment of overall Company performance and in the context of ongoing turbulence in corporate 
affairs and the achievement of key milestones considered pivotal to the Company's future success.  
Upon careful consideration, the Committee determined that the appropriate bonus out-turn for the CEO in respect of 2013 should 
be 75% of maximum opportunity (112.5% of salary). The Committee considers this level is appropriate to reflect the CEO's 
exceptional leadership in: 
- bringing the Separation Transaction to a successful conclusion, including obtaining shareholder approval at the EGM in 
December 2013; 
- leading the extensive review at PT Berau, and enhancing internal controls; and 
- the relisting of the Company's shares, following their temporary suspension.  
   68 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
The Committee is mindful that, whilst there have been a number of major achievements over the past 12 months, there is still 
significant progress to be made. However, in the context of the challenges faced by the Company this year, the CEO's performance 
has been outstanding and instrumental to securing the Company's future.  
Half of the annual bonus will be deferred into the Company's shares, which will vest on the third anniversary of grant. The leaver 
provisions applicable to the deferred bonus award are in line with the Policy, as set out earlier in this report.  
2014 performance measures (Unaudited) 
For 2014, the annual bonus performance measures for the CEO will be based 70% on corporate metrics, split between EBITDA 
(30%), production targets (20%), health and safety (10%) and debt refinancing/restructuring (10%). The remaining 30% will be based 
on the Committee's assessment of achievement of key strategic and personal objectives, including an emphasis on governance 
standards, people and brand and strategic objectives at the Berau level. For EBITDA, half will be measured based on reported 
EBITDA, and half will be adjusted to take into account uncontrollable external factors, such as commodity prices and foreign 
exchange rates. The overall bonus payout will be subject to a compliance and governance underpin, and production targets will  
be subject to a profitability underpin.  
The Board considers the prospective disclosure of these targets to be commercially sensitive, as disclosure would provide 
competitors with an insight of the Company's strategic plan which may be detrimental to shareholders. Additional details on targets 
and measures will be given at the end of the financial year.  
In the event that exceptional circumstances mean that the pre-determined performance metrics, weightings and/or targets 
become, in the opinion of the Committee, inappropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to adjust and/or replace the 
performance measures and targets as appropriate.  
Long term incentives (Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan) (Audited) 
Annual awards of 150% are made to the Executive Director under the long term incentive plan. Awards are delivered in the form of 
Performance Shares under the Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders in 2011.  
Performance Shares are subject to relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance over a three-year performance against two 
comparator groups, shown in the table below along with the associated targets. In addition, vesting is subject to the Committee 
being satisfied that the vesting outcome suitably reflects the underlying financial performance of the Company over the period.  
International Coal Mining Comparator Group HSBC Global Mining index 
50% of the Performance Shares 50% of the Performance Shares 
Arch Coal (US) Adaro Energy (Indonesia) This represents a commonly used index for measuring the 
performance of the global mining industry 
Consol Energy (US) Bayan Resources (Indonesia) 
Peabody Energy (US) Indo Tambangraya Megah 
(Indonesia) 
Walter Energy (US) Tambang Batubara Bukit  
Asam (Indonesia) 
New Hope Corporation 
(Australia) 
Banpu (Thailand) 
Whitehaven Coal  
(Australia) 
Exxaro Resources  
(South Africa) 
New World Resources (UK)  
 
Company's ranked TSR position Vesting (% of maximum) Company's TSR vs index Vesting (% of maximum) 
Upper quartile or above 100% Above index + 8% p.a. 100% 
Median 25% Equal to the index 25% 
Below median 0% Below the index 0% 
Straight line vesting between these points Straight line vesting between these points 
TSR will be calculated in US dollars at the start and end of the relevant period, using three-month averaging to smooth the impact 
of share price volatility. 
It is intended that awards for 2014 will be in line with the award policy and performance metrics set out above.  
The first awards under the Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan were made in 2012. Awards made to Executive Directors at that 
time have already lapsed in full upon cessation of employment of the relevant Directors (Nalin Rathod in 2012 and Scott Merrillees 
in 2013). There are no awards with performance periods ending in the year.  
   69 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Awards granted in the year (Audited) 
The following table sets out awards made under the Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan during the year. Due to ongoing closed 
periods, the awards, which would normally have been made in the first quarter of 2013, could not be made until December 2013. 
Vesting of these awards will be subject to the relative TSR performance conditions set out above, measured over the three-year 
period from 30 December 2013 to 29 December 2016.  
 Type of interest Date of award
Number of 
shares 
awarded Face value
1 
Amount vesting 
End of performance 
period
Threshold 
performance 
(% of face 
value) 
Maximum 
performance 
(% of face 
value) 
Nick von Schirnding Nil-cost option 30 December 2013 280,042  652,498 25% 100% 29 December 2016
1. Face value has been calculated using the average closing price for the three dealing days preceding the date of grant ( 2.33). This is the share price used to determine 
the number of shares awarded.  
Termination arrangements for Executive Directors (Audited) 
Scott Merrillees was appointed as an Executive Director of Asia Resource Minerals on 26 March 2012. He stepped down from  
this role at the Company's 2013 AGM on 26 June 2013. He received no termination payments and all of his awards under the  
Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan lapsed in full upon cessation.  
Single total figure of remuneration for Directors (Audited) 
The table below sets out the total remuneration receivable by each Director who was in office during 2013, for the financial years 
ended 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively.  
All figures shown  
in  '000 
Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 
Salary/ 
Fees Benefits
1,2
  
Annual 
Bonus 
(cash 
and 
deferred 
shares) 
Long  
term  
incentives
3
Pension Total 
Salary/
Fees Benefits 
Annual 
Bonus 
(cash 
and 
deferred 
shares) 
Long   
term   
incentives
3
 Pension Other Total
Executive Directors 
Nick von Schirnding
4
 435 3 489 - 65 992 --- - -- -
Scott Merrillees
5
 225 70 - - - 295 308 209 - - - - 517
Non-Executive Directors 
Samin Tan
6
 215 3 
N/A 
218 164 -
N/A 
- 164
Sir Julian  
Horn-Smith
7
 157 - 157 167 - - 167
Alexander Ramlie 85 3 88 43 - - 43
Steven Shapiro
8
 118 - 118 120 - - 120
Amir Sambodo 126 3 129 126 - - 126
Graham Holdaway 128 3 131 59 - - 59
Sir Richard Gozney
9
 77 - 77 -- - -
Lord Renwick
10
 49 - 49 110 - - 110
Sir Graham Hearne
11
 46 - 46 100 - - 100
Philip Yeo
12
 18 - 18 106 - - 106
Sony Harsono
13
 29 - 29 107 - - 107
Jean Marc Mizrahi
14
 11 - 11 43 - - 43
Nalin Rathod
15
 10 - 10 584 299 58 941
Total 1,729 85 489 -652,3682,037 508 - - - 58 2,603
Notes to the table: 
1. The Committee's policy is to provide a market competitive benefit package for the size, nature and location of the role. For 2013, the main benefits were private health 
insurance, critical illness and life assurance, and the payment of income tax due on these benefits. In addition, Scott Merrilees received expatriate benefits amounting to 
 70,073, consisting primarily of a housing allowance, a travel allowance and specialist tax advice. 
2. The UK regulations governing directors' remuneration reporting have changed for 2013 and now require inclusion of benefits where these would be taxable in the UK  
on the assumption that the Directors are taxable in the UK. In line with normal practice, the Company reimburses the costs of Non-Executive Directors' expenses in 
attending Board meetings. For Non-Executive Directors based overseas, attendance at Board meetings will typically be classed as international travel and hence not 
taxable in the UK. For consistency and to reflect that the expenses are fully incurred in the normal course of business, these business expenses have not been included 
as benefits for any of the Non-Executive Directors. 
3. The first awards under the Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan were made in 2012 and are subject to three-year TSR performance. As such there were no long term 
incentives with a performance period ending in 2012 or 2013.  
   70 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
4. Nick von Schirnding was appointed to the Board as CEO on 31 December 2012. No remuneration was receivable in respect of his services as a director in 2012. 50% of 
his bonus in respect of 2013 was deferred into shares for three years. 
5. Scott Merrillees stood down from the Board on 26 June 2013. 
6. Samin Tan was appointed as Chairman on 26 March 2012. On the completion of the Separation Transaction on 27 March 2014 he stepped down as Chairman.  
He remains a Non-Executive Director of the Company. 
7. Sir Julian Horn-Smith stood down from the Board on 31 January 2014. 
8. Steven Shapiro will not be seeking re-election at the Company's AGM.  
9. Sir Richard Gozney was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 21 February 2013.  
10. Lord Renwick stood down from the Board on 26 June 2013. 
11. Sir Graham Hearne stood down from the Board on 26 June 2013. 
12. Philip Yeo stood down from the Board on 15 March 2013. 
13. Sony Harsono stood down from the Board on 15 March 2013. 
14. Jean Marc Mizrahi left the Board on 21 February 2013. 
15. Nalin Rathod stood down from his role as Executive Director on 31 December 2012 and was subsequently appointed as a Non-Executive Director until he left the Board 
on 21 February 2013.  
16. Rosan Roeslani resigned from the Board on 19 December 2012. Following a review of payments made to Mr. Roeslani in 2012, it has been noted that there was 
incomplete disclosure for Mr. Roeslani of the total remuneration received in respect of his Non-Executive Director duties at Asia Resource Minerals plc in 2012.  
He received an additional  5,000, meaning the correct position was  90,000 (last year's Directors' emoluments table stated  85,000). 
17. Rosan Roeslani held the role of President Director at PT Berau, until he stood down on 7 March 2013. He received total remuneration from PT Berau of  330,651 in 
respect of this role. 
18. Scott Merrillees held the role of Chief Financial Officer at PT Berau, until he stood down in November 2013. He received total remuneration from PT Berau of  117,303 
in respect of this role, in the period after stepping down from the Board of Asia Resource Minerals plc at the Company's AGM held on 26 June 2013. 
Payments to past Directors (Audited) 
No payments made to past Directors have been made in the year. 
Statement of Directors' shareholdings and share interests (Audited) 
The table below sets out details of current shareholdings as at 31 December 2013 (or the date of cessation of the Director,  
if earlier). 
Director 
 Unvested share awards Vested share awards 
Number of 
shares owned 
(including 
connected 
persons) 
Nil-cost 
options 
subject to 
performance 
conditions 
(Performance 
Shares)
Nil-cost 
options not 
subject to 
performance 
conditions  
Unexercised  
nil-cost 
options 
(Vested 
Performance 
Shares) 
Nil-cost 
options 
exercised in 
the year
Executive Directors   
Nick von Schirnding 27,646 393,249
1
37,735
2
 - -
Scott Merrillees nil -
3
- - -
Non-Executive Directors   
Samin Tan
 
32,887,897
4
N/A 
Sir Julian Horn-Smith 45,000 N/A 
Alexander Ramlie nil N/A 
Steven Shapiro 55,000 N/A 
Amir Sambodo nil N/A 
Graham Holdaway nil N/A 
Sir Richard Gozney
5
 nil N/A 
Lord Renwick
6
 55,000 N/A 
Sir Graham Hearne
7
 55,000 N/A 
Philip Yeo
8
 nil N/A 
Sony Harsono
9
 nil N/A 
Jean Mizrahi
10
 nil N/A 
Nalin Rathod
11
 413,692 N/A 
 
   71 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the table: 
1. This consists of the following awards: 
  2013 Performance Share award over 280,042 shares, subject to TSR performance conditions to 29 December 2016. 
  2012 Performance Share awards over 113,207 shares, subject to TSR performance conditions to 3 July 2015 (granted in respect of his previous role prior to  
becoming CEO).  
2. This consists of an award granted in respect of his previous role prior to becoming CEO. The award is due to vest on 3 July 2015, subject to continued employment with 
the Group. 
3. Scott Merrillees stood down from the Board on 26 June 2013, at which time his awards lapsed in full. 
4. As at 31 December 2013, Samin Tan indirectly held 32,887,897 shares through his 60.73% holding (10,745,081,448) shares in PT Borneo, a company which indirectly  
held a substantial shareholding of 54,154,285 shares in Asia Resource Minerals plc. As at 1 April 2014, post the Separation Transaction, Mr Tan's indirect shareholding 
increased as follows: 
- PT Borneo's holding in Asia Resource Minerals plc increased to 57,235,656, resulting in an increase in Mr Tan's 60.73% shareholding to 34,759,214 shares. 
- Ravenwood Acquisition Company Limited (RACL) is wholly-owned by Ravenwood Pte Ltd. Ravenwood Pte Ltd is wholly-owned by Samin Tan. RACL as at 1 April,  
post the Separation Transaction holds 57 361 411 shares in Asia Resource Minerals plc. Therefore Samin holds these shares indirectly in addition to those owned 
through PT Borneo set out above. 
5. Sir Richard Gozney was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 21 February 2013.  
6. Lord Renwick stood down from the Board on 26 June 2013. 
7. Sir Graham Hearne stood down from the Board on 26 June 2013. 
8. Philip Yeo stood down from the Board on 15 March 2013. 
9. Sony Harsono stood down from the Board on 15 March 2013. 
10. Jean Marc Mizrahi left the Board on 21 February 2013. 
11. Nalin Rathod stood down from his role as Executive Director on 31 December 2012 and was subsequently appointed as a Non-Executive Director until he left the Board 
on 21 February 2013. 
Performance graph (Unaudited) 
The chart set out below shows the Total Shareholder Return of Asia Resource Minerals plc since listing in July 2010, compared  
to the HSBC Global Mining Index over the same period. The Committee considers this index to be a relevant benchmark for 
comparison purposes as it includes companies operating in the same industry and represents one of the comparator groups  
used under the Asia Resource Minerals Incentive Plan. 
 
CEO historic remuneration (Unaudited) 
The following table shows remuneration data for the Directors undertaking the role of Group Chief Executive Officer since the first 
appointment to the role in April 2011.  
 
CEO single figure 
of remuneration  
( 000) 
Annual 
bonus payout 
(% of maximum)
PSP vesting 
(% of maximum)
2013 Nick von Schirnding 992 75%
n/a
2012 Nalin Rathod 941
1
 -
2012 Ari Hudaya 163
 
-
2011 Ari Hudaya 654 -
1. Nalin Rathod was appointed CEO on 26 March 2012, when Ari Hudaya stood down.  
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
January 2014 January 2013 January 2012 January 2011 July 2010
Total Shareholder Return
Asia Resource Minerals HSBC Mining Index 72 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
CEO and employees percentage change in remuneration (Unaudited) 
The table below sets out the percentage change in remuneration elements of the Director undertaking the role of CEO. This 
compares the remuneration receivable by Nick von Schirnding in respect of 2013, with the remuneration receivable by Nalin Rathod 
in respect of 2012. Note that to allow comparison, amounts receivable by Nalin Rathod have been annualised. 
UK employees have been selected as an appropriate comparator group against which to show changes in CEO reward as they are 
based in the same geographical market, meaning they are subject to a similar external environment and pressures.  
% change in remuneration from 2012 to 2013 
% change in 
base salary
% change in 
benefits 
% change in 
annual bonus
CEO -46%
1
 -76%
2
 n/a
3
UK employees 10% 11% 32%
1.  Nick von Schirnding's salary on appointment to the role of CEO was set at a lower level than his predecessors. His salary has remained unchanged since appointment.  
2. The previous CEO was relocated to the UK and, as such, his package included expatriate benefits such as housing and relocation allowances. Nick von Schirnding does 
not receive these benefits.  
3. It is not possible to calculate the percentage change in CEO annual bonus given the payout in respect of 2012 was  nil.  
Relative importance of spend on pay (Unaudited) 
The chart below shows the percentage change in loss after tax, shareholder distributions and total employee compensation spend 
from the financial year ended 31 December 2012 to the financial year ended 31 December 2013.  
Year ended  
31 December 
2013
Year ended  
31 December 
2012 % change
Loss after tax ( m) (200) (2,551) n/a
Shareholder distributions ( m) 0 0 n/a
Employee costs ( m) 50 49 2%
Non-Executive Director Remuneration (Unaudited) 
Non-Executive Director fee structure for 2014 is as follows:  
Non-Executive Director fee policy 
Company Chairman  200,000
1
Senior Independent Director  120,000
2
Non-Executive Director fee  70,000 
Additional fees for Committees 
Audit Committee 
  Chairman  20,000 
  Member  10,000 
Remuneration Committee 
  Chairman  15,000 
  Member  7,000 
Nominations Committee 
  Chairman  10,000 
  Member  4,000 
Conflicts Committee 
  Chairman  15,000 
  Member   6,000 
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Committee 
  Chairman  15,000 
  Member  6,000 
Additional attendance fee for any Committee or Board meeting attended that involves than 12 hours' travel  5,000 
1. As reported earlier in this report, Chris Walton became Chairman of the Board on 27 March 2014 following the completion of the Separation Transaction when Samin 
Tan stepped down as Chairman.  
2. Sir Julian Horn-Smith was Senior Independent Director in 2013. He stood down on 31 January 2014, when Nick Salmon, who was appointed an INED on 1 January 2014, 
became Senior Independent Director. Sir Julian Horn-Smith received fees of  140,000 in his capacity as Senior Independent Director. 
   73 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
External advisors (Unaudited) 
The Committee retained Deloitte LLP (Deloitte ) to provide independent advice to the Committee on all aspects of executive 
reward. Following making a formal presentation to the Committee, Deloitte were formally appointed as advisers to the Committee 
in 2011. Advice provided in the year included guidance on the new reporting regulations, market data and other remuneration 
matters and total fees in relation to advice that materially assisted the committee were  44,658.  
In addition, Deloitte also provided the Company with assistance regarding immigration and employment tax services. 
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants' Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Code is based upon principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, 
competence, due care and confidentiality by executive remuneration consultants. The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte 
engagement partner and team do not have connections with Asia Resource Minerals plc that may impair their independence and 
that the advice they have received from Deloitte has been objective and independent. 
The Committee also received input during the year from the CEO, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and other 
Independent Non-Executive Directors (Sir Richard Gozney, Graham Holdaway and Lord Renwick). No individual plays a part in the 
determination of their own remuneration.  
Shareholder voting (Unaudited) 
The table below sets out the result of the advisory vote on the 2012 Directors' Remuneration Report at the June 2013 AGM: 
For Against Abstentions 
67% 31% 2%  
The Directors understand that the large vote against the Remuneration Report related primarily to certain shareholder concerns 
about the challenges the Company faced as a result of non-compliance with its policies and lack of disclosure by former PT Berau 
management. The Directors' response to these concerns has been addressed earlier in the Annual Report. 
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 11 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
Steve Shapiro 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
11 April 2014 