 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
101 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
Directors' 
Remuneration 
Report
This Directors' Remuneration Report (Report) 
has been prepared in accordance with the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (Regulations) and meets the relevant 
requirements of the Financial Services 
Authority's Listing Rules. As required by 
the Regulations, a resolution to approve 
this Report will be proposed at the AGM on 
29 April 2010.
The following sections of this Report, up 
to and including the Non-Executive Directors 
section on page 110, were not subject to 
audit by KPMG.
Remuneration Committee 
membership and meetings
The members of the Remuneration 
Committee (Committee) are John Varley 
(Chairman of the Committee), John Buchanan, 
Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell. They 
are all Non-Executive Directors. The Board 
considers them all to be independent (Louis 
Schweitzer was considered by the Board 
to be independent upon his appointment 
as Chairman; in accordance with the 
Combined Code, the test of independence 
is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman 
after his appointment). The independence of 
the Non-Executive Directors is discussed in 
more detail in the Business Organisation and 
Corporate Governance section from page 87 . 
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary 
to the Committee.
The Committee met six times in 2009. 
The individual attendance record of 
members of the Committee is set out 
in the Board and Committee meeting 
attendance in 2009 table on page 92.
At the invitation of the Committee, except 
where their own remuneration was being 
discussed, David Brennan (CEO); Lynn 
Tetrault (Executive Vice-President, Human 
Resources and Corporate Affairs); Simon 
Appleby (Vice-President, Performance and 
Reward); and Viv Gill (Vice-President, Global 
Compensation) attended Committee 
meetings in 2009 and provided advice 
and services that materially assisted the 
Committee. On one occasion in 2009, the 
Committee invited Simon Lowth (CFO) to 
attend a meeting to provide background 
information about performance measures 
that materially assisted the Committee in 
connection with its review of long-term 
incentive (LTI) arrangements for SET members. 
This was part of the overall review of the 
remuneration of SET members, including 
that of Executive Directors, which began in 
2009 and is referred to in more detail below.
The Committee retains Carol Arrowsmith 
of Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) who provided 
independent advice on various matters it 
considered in 2009. During the year, Deloitte 
also provided taxation advice and other 
non-audit services to the Company.
Committee terms of reference and 
key activities during the year
Committee terms of reference
A copy of the Committee's terms of reference 
is available on the Company's website, 
astrazeneca.com, or by request from the 
Company Secretary.
The role of the Committee is to develop and 
deploy remuneration policies and practices 
for senior management, and for the Group 
more broadly, that support the implementation 
of our business strategy and which thereby 
help the organisation to create value for 
shareholders over time.
My introduction to the 2009 Directors' 
Remuneration Report seeks to give context 
to the pages that follow.
As we indicated in last year's Directors' 
Remuneration Report, the Remuneration 
Committee has undertaken and completed 
a review of Executive Director and SET 
member remuneration during the course of 
the year. As part of this process, we have 
consulted a number of institutional investors, 
and are grateful for their contribution to the 
development of our proposals.
We have concluded that the fundamental 
principles that underpin the Company's 
approach to remuneration remain appropriate 
for the business and our current strategy. At 
the same time, we now have the opportunity, 
by developing our compensation structures, 
to build on the historical financial success 
of the Group, to invest for the future, and to 
focus on stewardship and shareholder 
value-creation over the long term.
We are therefore proposing to reshape the 
Group's long-term incentive arrangements, not 
to increase the overall value of the package, 
but to recognise that AstraZeneca operates 
in a uniquely long-term industry. We aim to 
strengthen thereby the alignment between 
the time horizons over which our business 
investment decisions are taken and those to 
which our share incentive programmes relate.
You will see that we are proposing the 
introduction of a new share plan (to operate 
alongside the existing Performance Share 
Plan and simultaneous with the cessation 
of further grants of options under the Share 
Option Plan) with an eight-year time horizon. 
Shareholders have been receptive to a 
long-term plan of this nature, conditional on 
sustainable financial performance and delivery 
of shareholder returns. At the same time, our 
discussions with investors have recognised 
that the long-term nature of the plan means 
that the Remuneration Committee should 
retain some flexibility as to the operation of 
the plan to ensure that this combination of 
incentive structures supports the best 
interests of the business and shareholders 
over the medium and long term.
The 2009 Directors' Remuneration Report 
which follows describes the key principles that 
have informed the Remuneration Committee's 
thinking, and provides a summary of the 
proposals themselves. We will seek 
shareholder approval for the new share plan 
at the AGM on 29 April 2010. Detailed plan 
terms, along with the specific performance 
requirements that will apply to the initial 
awards, will be set out in the circular sent 
to shareholders in advance of the AGM.
These proposals will facilitate the delivery of 
AstraZeneca's business strategy. They explicitly 
reflect the discussions that we have had with 
shareholders. On behalf of the Remuneration 
Committee, I commend them to you.
John Varley
Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
102 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
The Committee has responsibility for 
determining on behalf of the Board the 
individual compensation paid to Executive 
Directors and SET members. It takes 
responsibility on behalf of the Board for 
reviewing the design and operation of total 
compensation structures and practices 
across AstraZeneca. In this regard, the 
Committee's approval is required in relation to, 
amongst other things, decisions regarding:
The eligibility, structure, award/grant levels,  >
performance metrics and targets, costs 
and final vesting levels under LTI plans for 
Directors, other SET members and the 
Company Secretary.
Annual bonus payments for Executive  >
Directors, other SET members and senior 
executives below SET level.
The pension entitlements of Executive  >
Directors and other SET members.
The Chairman of the Board's remuneration  >
(which is approved by the other members 
of the Committee and the senior 
independent Non-Executive Director).
Any single payment or award over  >
$1 million.
Shareholding guidelines for Executive  >
Directors and other SET members.
The contractual terms and conditions  >
of, and any potential or actual payments 
arising on termination to, Executive 
Directors, other SET members and 
the Company Secretary so as to ensure 
that they are fair to the individual and the 
Company, that failure is not rewarded 
and that the duty to mitigate loss is 
fully recognised.
The Committee will again conduct a review 
of its terms of reference during 2010, taking 
advice as appropriate from its external adviser.
Key activities during the year
The Committee considered the following 
principal matters during 2009:
The strategic review of the remuneration  >
and incentive framework for Executive 
Directors and other SET members. 
This has represented a considerable 
proportion of the Committee's activities 
and focus during the course of the year. 
As part of its review, the Committee has 
undertaken a significant consultation with 
major shareholders and institutional 
investor organisations.
A review of the terms of senior executives'  >
remuneration packages on appointment, 
promotion and termination.
The assessment of Company and  >
individual performance against 
performance targets to determine 
the level of executive bonuses for 2008 
and to set executive bonus performance 
targets for 2009.
The approval of awards made under  >
the Group's main LTI plans: 
the AstraZeneca Performance Share 
Plan (PSP); the AstraZeneca Share 
Option Plan (SOP); and the AstraZeneca 
Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock 
Unit Award Plan (RSU Plan) to SET 
members and other participants.
A review of the Company's governance  >
arrangements for global compensation 
matters.
A benchmarking review of the  >
Committee's activities and policies 
against institutional investor guidelines.
A review of the pension entitlements  >
of Executive Directors and other 
SET members.
A review of the impact on compensation  >
policies and practices of the current 
economic environment, including 
ensuring the appropriate degree of risk 
adjustment to aggregate and individual 
compensation decisions.
The preparation, review and approval of  >
this Report.
Review of SET remuneration
The 2008 Directors' Remuneration Report 
explained that the Company would undertake 
a review of total remuneration for SET 
members (including Executive Directors) 
during 2009. This review is now drawing to 
a close and has led to the development of 
the forward-looking remuneration policy 
disclosed in this Report.
There were a number of factors that prompted 
this review:
When the PSP was approved by  >
shareholders at the AGM in early 2005 
(following the last full-scale review of 
executive remuneration), the Committee 
undertook to review its operation within a 
period of five years, and to take into 
account the views of the Company's 
shareholders and the needs of the 
business at that time.
Shareholder approval to operate the SOP  >
expires during May 2010. This provided 
the Company with a natural opportunity 
to review the current approach to 
remuneration, pay policies and incentive 
structures and to consider how these 
may best be developed to support the 
business strategy going forward.
The Committee is aware that the subject  >
of executive remuneration is much on the 
minds of shareholders and that, since its 
last review, a great deal has changed both 
in the general market and the corporate 
governance landscape and in the shape 
of, and strategic challenges faced by, the 
global pharmaceutical industry.
In conducting this review, the Committee 
has been mindful of shareholder views and 
expectations, and has sought to give major 
shareholders an opportunity to influence the 
direction of the proposals by dialogue during 
the course of the review.
Key remuneration principles
The Committee concluded that the following 
objectives should continue to define its 
approach to the formation and execution 
of AstraZeneca's remuneration policy:
All aspects of executive remuneration  >
should be developed in the context of 
shareholder views on  best practice' and 
be designed to help AstraZeneca create 
sustainable growth in shareholder value by 
the successful implementation of strategy.
Reward structures and performance  >
measures should support a strong 
performance culture enabling delivery of 
the business strategy, where all employees 
have a clear understanding of the Group's 
objectives, how their work will impact 
those objectives and how they will benefit 
from delivering high levels of performance.
Base pay and total compensation  >
positioning against the market should 
be appropriate to attract and develop 
high-calibre talent and SET remuneration 
should continue to be referenced to 
competitive levels of remuneration in 
the relevant local markets.
Additionally, some specific objectives have 
been established as a consequence of 
the review. These support the introduction 
of a new incentive structure to allow us to 
rebalance our LTI framework and include 
the following: AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
103 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
A clear desire in the business, supported  >
by the Committee, to move towards a 
longer-term framework which will 
strengthen alignment with the inherently 
long-term nature of pharmaceutical drug 
development.
Revised LTI structures, designed to  >
provide a clear focus for the business to 
outperform our industry peers over time, 
to deliver operational efficiency and to 
engender a strong sense of stewardship 
that will deliver long-term sustainable 
shareholder value.
No other element of Executive Director or SET 
remuneration will change as a consequence 
of the review. In particular, there is no intention 
to increase the overall quantum of short-term 
bonus or long-term reward opportunity and 
the annual incentive structure remains 
unchanged.
The review has also concluded that the 
shareholding guidelines for Executive 
Directors and other SET members will be 
increased from current levels and, as such, 
the shareholding requirement for the CEO is 
being increased to 200% of base salary 
(from 100%) and the requirement for all other 
Executive Directors and SET members will be 
increased to 125% of base salary (from 100%).
Long-term share plans
The SOP will expire during 2010 and the 
review has concluded that no further grants 
will be made under the SOP.
From 2010 onwards, and subject to 
shareholder approval of the new share 
plan, it is proposed that the long-term share 
interests of Executive Directors and other 
SET members will be provided through two 
complementary share plans as detailed below.
The PSP will continue to operate. However, 
performance conditions will be rebalanced 
so that the current relative TSR performance 
condition will apply in respect of one half of any 
award made under the PSP (as opposed to 
100%, as under the current terms of the PSP). 
The other half of the award will be subject to 
a new cash flow performance measure that 
will improve the focus on operational 
management of the business that is consistent 
with generating value for shareholders. We 
have chosen a cash flow measure because 
it will encompass all elements of operational 
and financial performance, represents a 
strong proxy through time for shareholder 
value-creation and is a key measure for the 
Group. In conjunction with this new measure, 
the TSR performance condition will continue 
to strengthen the focus on outperformance 
of competitors.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the 
AGM in April 2010 for the introduction of 
a new share plan called the AstraZeneca 
Investment Plan (AZIP) (to operate alongside 
the existing PSP) with an eight-year time 
horizon. Shareholders have been receptive to 
a long-term plan of this nature, conditional on 
sustainable shareholder returns and financial 
performance. Such a plan will provide annual 
awards to Executive Directors and other SET 
members which must be held for a total of 
eight years and are subject to a four-year 
performance requirement from the date 
of award.
The greater weighting within the LTI 
opportunity will be given to awards under 
the PSP. For 2010, awards under the PSP 
will be positioned so that interests under this 
plan can deliver 75% of the overall expected 
value from long-term remuneration. 25% of 
the overall long-term opportunity for 2010 
will therefore be delivered through the AZIP. 
The Committee will keep under review the 
appropriateness of this weighting.
The combination of awards under these two 
plans will fundamentally improve the alignment 
between the time horizons over which our 
business investment decisions are taken and 
those to which our long-term remuneration 
vehicles relate.
Performance conditions for the PSP
To date, awards to Executive Directors and 
other SET members under the PSP were 
subject to a TSR-only performance condition.
For awards to be made in 2010 under the 
PSP, it is intended that:
50% of the award will be based on relative  >
TSR against a selected peer group of global 
pharmaceutical companies, of which:
25% of the maximum award will vest  -
for performance at the median of the 
peer group; and
75% of the maximum award will vest  -
for upper quartile performance; the 
Committee will retain its existing 
discretion to determine the amount of 
vesting for performance significantly 
above upper quartile, up to 100% of 
the maximum award.
50% of the award will vest subject to  >
the achievement of a free cash flow 
target, which will operate as a cumulative 
cash flow target over a three-year 
performance period.
This free cash flow measure has been 
chosen because it encompasses a number 
of important elements of operational and 
financial performance and helps to align 
executives' rewards with shareholder 
value-creation. The level of vesting of this 
element will be based on a sliding scale 
against a target that is intended to represent 
a significant challenge for the business. It is 
intended that the Committee should have the 
discretion to adjust, but on an exceptional 
basis only, the free cash flow target during 
the performance period for material factors 
that might otherwise distort the performance 
measure in either direction. This is so that 
performance can be assessed against targets 
that have been set on a consistent basis. 
For example, adjustments may be required 
to reflect exchange rate movements, 
significant acquisitions or divestments and 
major legal and taxation settlements. Any 
major adjustments to the calculation will be 
disclosed to shareholders. There will be no 
retesting of performance. Further information 
about the applicable free cash flow target 
will be set out in the Notice of AGM and 
shareholders' circular.
Performance requirement for awards 
under the AZIP
The AZIP will be aligned to AstraZeneca's 
targeted product development cycle, reflecting 
the long term investment horizons that are a 
feature of the industry. The performance 
requirements attached to awards under the 
AZIP will be a combination of dividend and 
dividend cover tests, assessed over a period 
of up to four financial years beginning at the 
start of the first financial year of the Company 
in which the award is granted. A subsequent 
sale restriction will apply over a period that 
extends to the full eight-year period, during 
which time forfeiture provisions will usually 
apply. Accordingly, participants will not 
generally be able to realise value until the full 
eight-year period has elapsed.
The Committee's intention in its choice of 
proposed performance tests has been to 
establish a performance requirement that 
motivates financial business performance 
that will generate returns for shareholders on 
a sustainable basis over an extended time 
period. Further details relating to the proposed 
performance requirement and targets for 
2010 awards will be provided in the Notice of 
AGM and shareholders' circular. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
104 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Components of remuneration
Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of Policy Applies to
Base salary (fixed) Base fixed remuneration. Based on conditions in the relevant 
geographic market and recognising 
the value of an individual's sustained 
personal performance and contribution to 
the business, taking account of the market 
rate for an individual's skills and experience. 
Benchmarked against external comparators.
All employees
Pension arrangements (fixed) Provision of retirement benefits. Benchmarked against the relevant 
local employment market.
All employees
Benefits (fixed) Provision of standard non-cash employment 
benefits, such as healthcare, insurances 
and, for certain employees, facilitated car 
purchase arrangements. 
Cost-effective and compatible with 
relevant welfare arrangements and 
local market norms.
All employees
Short-term bonus (variable) An annual cash incentive opportunity 
determined by reference to Group, functional 
and individual performance, measured over 
a single financial year of the Company and 
taking into account external expectations 
of performance.
Differs by market, but the Group 
performance measures ensure that 
all eligible employees receive an element 
of reward based on the Company's 
overall financial performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the 
Committee at the start of the year and are 
derived from the business scorecard, the key 
elements of which are set out in the Strategy, 
objectives and 2009 performance table from 
page 16, and are monitored as part of the 
quarterly business review (QBR) process.
Individual goals are based on 
annual objectives, which are linked 
to functional goals.
All eligible employees
Deferred bonus plan (variable) Aligns SET members' interests with 
those of shareholders.
SET members must defer a proportion of 
their short-term bonus (currently one-third 
of pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors 
and one-sixth for other SET members) 
into Ordinary Shares or ADSs for a 
three-year period.
SET members
LTI plans (variable) - for more 
information on these plans 
see the LTI plans section from 
page 107
Long-term equity incentive awards to 
provide individual executives and employees 
with total compensation opportunities that 
are competitive against local market 
practice, for the achievement of operational 
excellence, strong financial performance and 
actions that are closely aligned with the 
interests of shareholders. Subject to 
shareholder approval, the primary LTI plans 
in which SET members participate from 
2010 will be the PSP and the AZIP.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. SET members and 
other senior executives
AstraZeneca Investment Plan (from 2010, 
subject to shareholder approval).
SET members
Share Option Plan (final awards made 
in 2009).
Senior management 
and SET members
Global Restricted Share Plan (from 2010, 
replacing existing restricted stock unit plans).
Eligible employees globally
Other share plans  All employee' share participation 
arrangements, including some that are 
tax-approved, for example in the UK.
Examples include the Share Incentive Plan 
and Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
1
.
Eligible employees
Shareholding guidelines Aligning SET members' interests with 
those of shareholders.
The current expectation is for SET members 
to hold shares with a value equivalent to their 
base salary. From 2010, the CEO will be 
expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% 
of base salary and the CFO and other SET 
members will be expected to hold 125% of 
base salary in shares.
SET members
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET member's remuneration the Committee considers, both separately and in aggregate, 
each component of the SET member's total remuneration.
1 
Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 161. Chief Executive Officer
Fixed %
A Base Salary 22
Variable %
B Bonus 22
C PSP 42
D AZIP 14
A
B
C
D
Fixed %
A Base Salary 29
Variable %
B Bonus 26
C PSP 34
D AZIP 11
Chief Financial Officer
A
B
C
D
Variable Elements
Bonus AstraZeneca Investment Plan
Linked to short-term performance Linked to long-term performance
Deferred Bonus Plan (share-based) Performance Share Plan
Fixed Elements
Pension
Benefits (such as healthcare) 
Basic salary
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
105 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
2009 components of remuneration
During 2009, the remuneration components 
for all Group employees (including those of 
SET members) comprised fixed and variable 
performance-related elements. Summaries 
of these elements are included in the table on 
page 104.
The way in which these elements of 
remuneration are combined and applied varies 
according to a range of factors, including 
specific business needs and practices in 
different markets, although, in general, the 
more senior the role within the business, the 
greater the proportion of total remuneration 
is made up of variable performance-related 
elements. The Committee seeks to ensure 
that the overall proportion of variable pay 
to which Executive Directors and other SET 
members may become entitled forms a 
significant part of their overall remuneration 
opportunity. The Committee's objective for 
senior management is to ensure that such 
variable pay is linked to a range of measures 
designed to promote both individual and team 
behaviour and performance in a way that 
supports the success of AstraZeneca and 
creates value for its shareholders. Such 
measures are designed to stretch and 
challenge the relevant individuals whilst at 
the same time giving them an opportunity to 
participate as shareholders in the creation of 
long-term economic value.
The Company has continued to take into 
account the wider business environment and 
employment conditions across the Group. 
In particular, no base pay increases were 
awarded in respect of the 2009 calendar year 
to Executive Directors or other SET members 
whose responsibilities were unchanged. 
In addition, award opportunities under the 
Group's LTI plan framework have been held 
at a consistent level since the adoption of 
the PSP in 2005.
For 2010, the Company will continue to 
benchmark against appropriate comparator 
companies and will assess whether or not and 
to what extent the overall opportunities for 
remuneration offered by the current structure 
of remuneration remain appropriate in the 
context of changes within the business and 
the external environment in which it operates.
Remuneration and terms of 
employment for Executive Directors 
and other SET members
Illustration of fixed and variable 
performance-related remuneration
Based on AstraZeneca's remuneration 
policy, the Components of remuneration - 
expected value basis charts below illustrate 
the potential weighting given to fixed and 
variable performance-related elements of the 
remuneration package at Executive Director 
level. Variable performance-related elements 
of the package are shown on an  expected 
value' basis, and in the event that performance 
conditions are not met, such elements would 
not deliver any value. The  expected value' 
approach considers the range of possible 
outcomes and the probability attached 
to each, in order to provide a value that 
represents the average that would be delivered 
if the arrangements were operated over many 
years. The  expected value' for bonus 
payment is taken to be the target payout level.
Fixed remuneration
Both Executive Directors' terms and conditions 
are UK-based and are benchmarked against 
external UK comparators, apart from David 
Brennan's pension and health insurance 
arrangements, which are described below.
Base salary
The base salary for Executive Directors and 
other SET members is determined by the 
Committee. Salary decisions reflect the 
experience and performance of the individuals 
to whom they apply, taking account of market 
competitiveness and the level of increases 
applicable to employees in the wider Group. 
The Committee has again decided that in 
the case of the CEO and those SET members 
(other than the CFO) whose responsibilities are 
unchanged, there will be no salary increases 
for 2010. For Executive Directors and other 
SET members, the policy has been to position 
salaries at the median of the relevant market. 
In accordance with this policy, and given that 
his base salary has remained at the same level 
since he was appointed as an Executive 
Director in 2007 , Simon Lowth (CFO) has been 
awarded a base salary increase, effective 
from 2010, illustrated in the table opposite.
The base salaries of Executive Directors are 
set out opposite.
Executive Directors' base salaries in 2009 and 2010
Executive Director
Annual salary in 2009
 
Annual salary in 2010
  
Increase
% 
David Brennan 972,900 972,900 -
John Patterson
1
 540,000 n/a n/a
Simon Lowth 550,000 620,000 13
1 
John Patterson retired from the Board on 31 March 2009.
Components of remuneration - expected value basis
2010 proposed components of SET remuneration AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
106 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Pension arrangements
The table in the Defined benefit arrangements 
section on page 113 gives details of the 
changes in the value of the Executive 
Directors' accrued pensions during 2009.
CEO's pension arrangements
David Brennan is a member of the 
AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit Pension 
Plan (US DBP), by virtue of his membership 
of pension plans applicable to legacy Astra 
Merck employees. On his appointment to 
the Board, the rules of the US DBP were 
amended so as to remove bonus payments 
from the calculation of his pensionable pay. 
Benefits for members of the US DBP are 
delivered on a tax-qualified basis, with accrued 
benefits that exceed specific limits under 
the plan's formula and the US Tax Code 
being delivered through a supplementary, 
non-qualified plan.
The normal pension age under the US DBP 
is 65. However, on leaving or retiring from 
employment, David Brennan is eligible to take 
a pension or lump sum equivalent based on 
accrued service and final pensionable pay 
(ie without actuarial reduction) due to his 
satisfaction of a condition in the pension plan 
relating to the combined age and service 
exceeding 85 years, as previously disclosed.
David Brennan's participation in the US 
DBP is subject to a service cap at 35 years' 
service, which will be attained in January 
2011, after which no further service accrual 
can be earned.
Members and, in the event of death, surviving 
spouses/dependants can elect, in relation to 
those benefits delivered on a tax-qualified 
basis under the US DBP, to take pensions in 
lump sum form based on actuarial valuation. 
Members or spouses/dependants may not 
make such an election in relation to any 
supplementary non-qualified benefits.
In addition, David Brennan (as a US citizen) 
is a contributing member of the US 401(k) 
savings plan
1
. He also contributes to an 
associated non-qualified plan, as described 
in the Defined contribution arrangements 
section on page 113.
In the event of a US participant becoming 
incapacitated then permanent health 
insurance cover will provide continuation 
of a proportion of salary, subject to the 
satisfaction of certain medical criteria. In the 
event of the death of a participant prior to 
retirement, a life assurance policy will provide 
surviving spouses/dependants with a lump 
sum equivalent to one times salary (such 
salary being capped at the maximum 
pensionable salary under the plan).
1  
The 401(k) savings plan is a qualified plan to which 
eligible employees may make salary-deferral 
contributions on a post-tax and/or pre-tax basis. 
Employers may also make matching or non-elective 
contributions to the plan. There is a supplementary 
non-qualified plan in place for all eligible employees 
whose earnings exceed specific limits.
UK Executive Directors' 
pension arrangements
UK Executive Directors have the option to 
participate in a UK pension plan according to 
their eligibility, or to take a cash allowance in 
lieu of pension. The cash allowance is 
consistent with the appropriate value of the 
alternative gross pension benefit.
John Patterson (formerly Executive Director, 
Development) elected to take the cash 
allowance in lieu of pension for the option year 
1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 (as detailed 
in the Defined contribution arrangements 
section on page 113).
In respect of pension accrued up to his 
retirement, he remained a member of the 
AstraZeneca main UK defined benefit pension 
plan (AstraZeneca Pension Fund). The normal 
pension age under this plan is 62. However, 
a member's accrued pension is available 
from age 60 without any actuarial reduction. 
John Patterson retired from the AstraZeneca 
Pension Fund on 6 April 2009 aged 61 and 
was eligible to take a pension based on 
accrued service and final pensionable pay. 
He opted to take a commutation lump sum 
on retirement, in lieu of part of his pension 
entitlement. This lump sum was calculated 
and granted in accordance with the rules 
of the AstraZeneca Pension Fund and 
amounted to  785,000. This reduced his 
pension entitlement after commutation to 
 303,000 per annum.
Pensions in payment are increased annually 
in line with inflation, as measured by the UK 
Retail Prices Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
Simon Lowth (CFO) is eligible to join the 
AstraZeneca main UK defined contribution 
pension plan (UK Defined Contribution Plan) 
at a company contribution rate of 24% of 
annual base salary or, alternatively, to take the 
company contribution as a cash allowance. 
For the option years 1 July 2008 to 30 June 
2009 and 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010, he 
elected to take the cash allowance (as detailed 
in the Defined contribution arrangements 
section on page 113).
In the event of a senior employee in the UK 
Defined Contribution Plan (or where an 
alternative cash allowance has been taken) 
becoming incapacitated, then permanent 
health insurance cover provides continuation 
of a proportion of salary subject to the 
satisfaction of certain medical criteria. In the 
event of death prior to retirement, dependants 
are entitled to a pension and/or lump sum 
secured from a multiple of 10 times salary.
Benefits
In conjunction with the majority of employers, 
certain benefits are made available to 
Executive Directors and other SET 
members via local benefits programmes 
offered by AstraZeneca. Benefits under 
these programmes typically include 
healthcare, insurances and facilitated car 
purchase arrangements.
Variable performance-
related remuneration
Executive Directors and other SET members 
are eligible to participate in different elements 
of variable performance-related pay, which 
are described below. The decision as to 
whether or not in any given year they receive 
any or all of their elements of variable pay is 
determined by the Committee, which will 
typically have regard to the performance of 
the individual and the Group and will consider 
the elements of variable pay applicable to 
senior employees in other comparable 
organisations in making such a determination.
Short-term bonus
Performance criteria
Executive Directors and other SET members 
are eligible for a short-term bonus. The basis 
for the payment of any short-term bonus is 
determined by reference to a range of factors 
linked to the underlying performance of 
AstraZeneca's business, the performance of 
the functional area for which the individual is 
responsible and the performance of the 
individual in his or her role.
Structure and assessment of performance 
As set out in the 2008 Directors' Remuneration 
Report, following a review by the Committee 
in 2008 of the performance criteria for the 
determination of annual bonuses for Executive 
Directors and other SET members, the 
performance criteria were adjusted in 2009 to 
align more closely with the current objectives 
and measures that are used by the business, 
and this approach will continue to apply for 
2010. For 2010, the bonus ranges are the 
same as for 2009. The bonus deferral 
requirements, described in more detail 
below, are also unchanged for 2010. 
Executive Directors' and other SET members' 
bonuses for 2009 were based on performance 
criteria linked to the following targets: AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
107 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
60% by reference to EPS, cash flow targets  >
and the objectives in each of the strategic 
priority areas identified by the Board for 
the business, the key elements of which 
are set out in the Strategy, objectives and 
2009 performance table from page 16 
and which are monitored as part of the 
QBR against targets set by the 
Committee at the beginning of the year 
and taking into account external 
expectations of performance; and
40% by reference to individual measures  >
and initiatives which link to the business 
objectives relevant to the individual's 
functional accountability (or, in the case 
of the CEO, the average of these 
individual outcomes).
These measures reinforce AstraZeneca's 
emphasis on individual and business 
accountability. The key measures referred 
to above are clearly set out in the Strategy, 
objectives and 2009 performance table from 
page 16, whereby Group and functional 
objectives and measures are managed in a 
robust and consistent way and assessed by 
the SET as part of the QBR. The outcome 
of this process is rigorously scrutinised by 
the Board.
Bonus ranges for 2010
For 2010, the bonus ranges for each 
Executive Director are shown below and are 
the same as for 2009.
Bonus outcomes for 2009
In assessing bonuses for 2009, the Committee 
took into account the strong EPS (excluding 
restructuring and synergy costs) and cash 
flow performance, which in both cases 
significantly exceeded budget, together with 
overall business and financial outcomes and 
relevant functional performance against clear 
measures and initiatives set at the beginning 
of the bonus year. The key elements of these 
strategic priorities and business objectives 
are set out in the Strategy, objectives and 
2009 performance table from page 16, in 
Bonus ranges for 2010
Bonus range for 2010
Executive Director %
David Brennan 0-180
Simon Lowth 0-150
relation to the following categories, which 
the Committee believes are consistent with 
delivering shareholder value:
Strengthen the pipeline >
Grow the business >
Reshape the business >
Promote a culture of responsibility  >
and accountability.
When assessing the performance of the 
business in these categories, the Committee 
noted that during 2009 there had been three 
significant regulatory approvals across various 
jurisdictions, four regulatory submissions, 
the agreement of three major late-stage 
in-licensing deals and the announcement 
of four co-promotion collaborations. 
These achievements were underpinned 
by a continuing emphasis on reshaping the 
business and annualising the benefits from 
restructuring, the strong sales performance 
of the Group despite the ongoing challenging 
economic environment and a level of 
employee engagement which was above 
the industry average.
Having assessed the Company's 
performance against all the measures set 
out above, the Committee is satisfied that 
the bonus payments that have been earned 
against stretching performance targets are 
fully justified.
The bonus outcomes for the Executive 
Directors for 2009 are shown in the 
table below.
Bonus share deferral requirements
Consistent with best practice, the Committee 
has put in place a requirement that certain 
proportions of any short-term bonus payment 
(as specified below) be deferred and invested 
into Ordinary Shares or ADSs. Broadly, these 
are acquired on the open market at the 
prevailing market price and held for a period 
of three years from the date of acquisition 
before being delivered to individual Executive 
Bonus outcomes for 2009 
Short-term bonus (delivered as a combination of cash and shares, 
as shown in the Directors' emoluments in 2009 section from page 111)
1
Executive Director  000 % of salary
David Brennan 1,751 180
John Patterson
2
187 138
Simon Lowth 825 150
1 
Bonuses for Executive Directors are not pensionable.
2 
John Patterson's bonus for 2009 was considered by the Committee in January 2010 and his bonus was 
based on his eligible earnings for the period in 2009 prior to his retirement on 31 March 2009.
Directors and other SET members. This 
arrangement is one of the ways in which, 
over time, Executive Directors and other SET 
members will be able to build up a significant 
shareholding in the Company. The proportion 
currently deferred into shares is one-third of 
the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors 
and one-sixth for other SET members. 
On leaving, participants would normally have 
to wait for the shares to be released at the 
end of the three-year period. For Executive 
Directors and other SET members who cease 
employment for reasons other than that of 
good leaver (for example, those who are 
dismissed), the deferred bonus award 
will lapse, unless the Committee decides 
otherwise before the cessation of employment.
LTI plans
During 2009, Executive Directors and other 
SET members were eligible to be granted 
share option awards under the SOP and 
performance share awards under the PSP. 
The grant of such options and award of such 
shares were determined by the Committee, 
as were the performance targets that apply 
to their vesting and/or exercise. The PSP and 
the SOP were intended to align the interests 
of Executive Directors and other SET members 
with those of shareholders. For share option 
awards granted under the SOP, it is the 
expectation of the Committee that Executive 
Directors and other SET members will retain 
the net number of shares from the exercise of 
options for a period of not less than six months 
from the date of exercise. As described above, 
no further share option awards will be granted 
under the SOP and this plan will expire at 
the end of its 10-year life in May 2010. The 
Company will not be seeking re-approval of 
the SOP by shareholders. Those share option 
awards granted to date under the SOP will 
remain exercisable until those options lapse. 
For further information on the SOP, see the 
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on 
page 109. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
108 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Shareholding guidelines
For Executive Directors and other SET 
members, the Committee has established 
target shareholding guidelines, under which 
it is expected that they build up their own 
shareholding in the Company. For 2009, the 
Committee's expectation was a shareholding 
with a market value approximately equivalent 
to their base salary. As a result of the review 
of the remuneration of SET members carried 
out in 2009, the Committee concluded that 
the target should be increased from 2010, 
such that the CEO will be expected to hold 
shares in the Company with a market value 
approximately equivalent to 200% of his base 
salary. For other Executive Directors and SET 
members, the guideline is a shareholding 
with a market value approximately equivalent 
to 125% of their base salaries. It is expected 
that these shareholding targets will be reached 
over a period of five years through shares 
delivered from the various LTI plans as well 
as the deferred part of the short-term bonus 
(described above).
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
The PSP was approved by shareholders 
at the AGM in 2005 and provides for the 
grant of performance share awards (Share 
Awards) over Ordinary Shares or ADSs 
(together, Shares).
Basis of participation
The Committee is responsible for setting the 
policy for the way in which the PSP should 
operate, including agreeing performance 
targets, identifying which employees should 
be invited to participate in the PSP and the 
level of Share Awards. Participation is highly 
selective and tends only to include senior 
employees on the basis of their performance. 
Share Awards are not pensionable and may 
not generally be assigned or transferred.
Generally, Share Awards can be granted at any 
time (although in practice they are awarded 
annually), but not during a close or prohibited 
period of the Company. In 2009, the main 
grant of Share Awards was made on 27 
March, with other Share Awards approved by 
the Committee in relation to, for example, new 
appointments, promotions or assignments 
being granted on 28 August. The value of 
Shares subject to a Share Award is determined 
by reference to the market price of Shares 
over the three-day period immediately 
preceding the date of grant.
Details of Share Awards granted to Executive 
Directors are shown in the Performance Share 
Plan table on page 116.
Performance conditions
Save in exceptional circumstances, which are 
prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting of 
Share Awards is contingent on the satisfaction 
of specified performance targets and 
continued employment with the Group. In 
addition to the satisfaction of these 
performance targets, Share Awards will 
generally not vest until the third anniversary 
of the date of grant, although Share Awards 
may vest in part on a time pro-rated basis 
where a participant ceases to be in relevant 
employment under certain circumstances 
during the vesting period, to the extent that 
the performance targets have been met.
Performance period and vesting dates
In the case of all Share Awards granted to 
date, the performance target relates to the 
three-year period commencing on 1 January 
of the year of grant. Therefore, for the Share 
Awards made in 2009, the performance 
period runs from 1 January 2009 to 
31 December 2011. The vesting date is the 
third anniversary of the date of grant.
Performance targets
For all Share Awards granted so far to 
Executive Directors and other SET members, 
including Share Awards granted in 2009, 
the performance target is the Company's 
TSR over the relevant three-year period 
compared with the TSR of a selected peer 
group of pharmaceutical companies for 
the same period. For share awards granted 
up to and including 2007 these companies 
were: Abbott Laboratories, Inc., BMS, 
Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, 
Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, 
Pfizer Inc., F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 
Sanofi-Aventis, Schering-Plough Corporation 
and Wyeth Inc. As a result of corporate 
actions in the pharmaceutical sector during 
2009, Schering-Plough Corporation and 
Wyeth Inc. have been removed from the 
peer group. As a result of this, the Committee 
has decided the following in relation to 
outstanding unvested awards:
Share Awards in 2007: the TSR  >
performance for Schering-Plough 
Corporation and Wyeth Inc. was adjusted 
from a date a week before the 
announcement of the relevant corporate 
action to the end of the relevant 
performance period so as to track the 
TSR of the acquiring companies (Merck 
in the case of Schering-Plough and Pfizer 
Inc. in the case of Wyeth Inc.).
Share Awards in 2008 and 2009: Schering- >
Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc. 
were removed from the peer group thus 
reducing the size of the peer group to 
10 companies (excluding AstraZeneca). 
For these awards, AstraZeneca's TSR 
will be compared with the TSR for the 10 
companies remaining in the peer group in 
respect of the relevant performance period.
TSR measures share price growth and 
dividends re-invested in respect of a notional 
number of shares, from the beginning of the 
relevant performance period to the end of it, 
and ranks the companies in the selected 
comparator group by reference to their TSR 
achieved over that period. The rank which 
the Company's TSR achieves over the 
performance period will determine how many 
Shares will vest under the relevant Share 
Award. For the purposes of future 
communications to shareholders and PSP 
participants, payouts against performance in 
relation to TSR for all existing and future Share 
Awards will be expressed as a percentage of 
the maximum Share Award currently payable, 
shown within a range of 0 to 100%. This new 
presentation is shown in the table below.
TSR ranking  
of the Company
Vesting percentage 
(%)
Below median 0
Median 25
Upper quartile 75
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata
Significantly above upper quartile Up to 100
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return 
index is averaged in the TSR calculations for 
each company over the three months prior 
to the start and end of the relevant 
performance period.
In addition to the TSR performance target 
being met for each Share Award as set out 
above, the Committee also has to satisfy itself 
that achievement of the TSR performance 
target is a genuine reflection of the Company's 
underlying financial performance and has 
the discretion to prevent Share Awards from 
vesting or only to allow them to partially vest 
where this appears to the Committee to 
be warranted.
At the discretion of the Committee, more than 
75% of the maximum Share Award may vest, 
up to the limit of the maximum award, if the 
Company's TSR performance is substantially 
better than that of the upper quartile of the 
comparator group. For Share Awards to vest 
at this level, the Company would need to 
have sustained a level of performance 
significantly in excess of upper quartile over 
a period of years and the Committee would 
need to be satisfied that this was warranted. 
The number of any additional Shares that 
may vest in this way may not exceed 25% of 
the total number of Shares made the subject 
of a Share Award on the date of grant. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
109 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
For those Share Awards to be made in 2010, 
as described above, 50% of the Share 
Awards will continue to be based on relative 
TSR against a selected peer group of 
pharmaceutical companies. The remaining 
50% will vest subject to performance 
against an adjusted free cash flow target. 
In respect of these awards, the relevant peer 
group for the TSR measure will be: Abbott 
Laboratories, Inc., BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, 
GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson & Johnson, 
Merck, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., F. Hoffmann-
La Roche Ltd and Sanofi-Aventis. Further 
information about the applicable free cash 
flow target will be set out in the Notice of 
AGM and shareholders' circular.
Individual limit
In respect of any financial year of the 
Company, the maximum market value of 
Shares that may be put under a Share Award 
in respect of an employee is 500% of that 
employee's base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under 
the PSP, subject to this maximum, are set by 
the Committee from time to time.
Performance under the PSP in 2009
The TSR graphs on page 114 show, for each 
Share Award, how the Company's TSR 
performance has compared with the TSR for 
the companies in the comparator group from 
the first day of the relevant performance 
period to 31 December 2009 and how the 
Company ranks against those other peer 
companies on this basis. We will continue to 
report on the performance of each Share 
Award against the relevant performance 
target during the relevant vesting period.
Change of control provisions
On a change of control of the Company as 
a result of a general offer to acquire all of the 
Ordinary Shares in the Company, Share 
Awards will vest pro-rata to the time elapsed 
between the date of grant of the Share Award 
and the date of the change of control to the 
extent that the relevant performance targets 
have been met up to the date of the change 
of control (or the most practicable earlier 
date). The Committee will, however, have 
discretion to take into account any other 
factors it believes to be relevant in determining 
the extent to which Share Awards will vest in 
these circumstances.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan
The SOP was approved by shareholders at 
the AGM in 2000 and provided for the grant 
of share option awards (Option Awards) 
over Shares. The SOP was approved for 
a period of 10 years and will expire in May 
2010. The Company will not be seeking 
re-approval of the SOP by shareholders.
Basis of participation
The Committee was responsible for setting 
the policy for the way in which the SOP 
should operate, including agreeing 
performance targets and identifying which 
employees should be invited to participate 
and the level of Option Awards. Participation 
was highly selective and tended only to 
include senior employees on the basis of 
their performance (except in the US where for 
reasons of custom and practice, participation 
in the SOP was more widespread). Option 
Awards were not pensionable and may not 
generally be assigned or transferred.
In 2009, the main grant of Option Awards 
was made on 27 March, with other Option 
Awards approved by the Committee in 
relation to, for example, new appointments, 
promotions or assignments being granted 
on 28 August. The exercise price was fixed 
by reference to the market price of Shares 
over the three-day period immediately 
preceding the date of grant.
Details of Option Awards granted to Executive 
Directors are shown in the Share options table 
on page 118.
Performance conditions
The SOP rules require that the Committee, 
before agreeing to grant an Option Award 
to Executive Directors and others, considers 
whether or not the underlying performance 
of the Company justifies a grant. In addition, 
it must also be satisfied that each individual 
nominated is performing to the necessary 
standard.
In agreeing grants of Option Awards in 2009, 
the Committee took into account strong 
underlying financial performance and progress 
towards achieving longer-term goals.
The Committee also sought and received 
assurances that each individual proposed 
for the grant of an Option Award has been 
performing in a manner that justified a grant 
to them. There was some variation in the level 
of grants being proposed between individuals, 
to reflect differing levels of performance and 
their seniority within the business.
As well as taking into account these 
performance considerations at the point of 
granting Option Awards, the Committee 
imposed performance conditions in respect 
of the exercise of such Option Awards by SET 
members (including the Executive Directors) 
which, in the view of the Committee, were 
considered appropriately stretching. In order 
for Option Awards to vest, the EPS of the 
Group must increase at least in line with the 
UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum 
on average, over a three year period, the 
base figure being the EPS for the financial 
year preceding the date of grant, with no 
retesting. In addition, since the review of 
executive remuneration in 2004, the 
Committee has included a condition that, if 
an event occurs which causes material 
reputational damage to the Company, such 
that it is not appropriate for the Option 
Awards to vest and become exercisable, the 
Committee can make a determination to 
reflect this.
Change of control provisions
On a change of control of the Company as 
a result of a general offer to acquire all of 
the Ordinary Shares in the Company, any 
unvested Option Awards vest immediately 
following the change of control. All outstanding 
vested Option Awards can be exercised 
during the period of six months from the 
date of the change of control. The Company 
will use its reasonable endeavours to ensure 
that any Shares acquired from an exercise 
following a change of control are subject to 
the same terms as shares of the same class 
that were acquired under the general offer. 
Unexercised Option Awards will lapse at the 
end of the six-month period following a 
change of control or, if the Option Award is 
exchanged for an option relating to shares in 
a different company, the date of exchange, 
whichever is earlier.
Dilution
The dilutive effect of the grants of Option 
Awards on the Company's issued share 
capital was also considered by the Committee, 
in accordance with its commitment, reflecting 
the guidance of the Association of British 
Insurers, that the percentage of the issued 
share capital that could be allocated under 
all of the Company's employee share plans 
over a period of 10 years should be under 
10%. This commitment is applied by the 
Committee in practice as a limit, on average, 
of under 1% per annum. The Committee 
concluded that a grant of Option Awards 
to those SOP participants and individual 
Executive Directors proposed for a grant was 
appropriate given the level of performance 
achieved. None of the other LTI plans currently 
operated by the Company have a dilutive 
effect because they do not involve the issue 
and allotment of new Ordinary Shares 
but rather rely on the market purchase of 
Ordinary Shares or ADSs that have already 
been issued. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
110 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Restricted Stock Unit Plans
The RSU Plan was introduced in 2007 and 
provides for the grant of restricted stock unit 
awards to selected employees (predominantly 
in the US). The MedImmune, Inc. Restricted 
Stock Unit Award Plan (MedImmune RSU 
Plan) was introduced in 2008 to make 
restricted stock unit awards to employees of 
MedImmune. The RSU Plan and MedImmune 
RSU Plan are used in conjunction with the 
SOP to provide a mix of restricted stock units 
and share options. Restricted stock unit 
awards typically vest on the third anniversary 
of the date of grant and are contingent on 
continued employment with AstraZeneca. In 
2009, restricted stock unit awards were made 
under the RSU Plan and the MedImmune 
Plan on 27 March. Neither the RSU Plan nor 
the MedImmune RSU Plan are used to make 
restricted stock unit awards to Executive 
Directors or other SET members, nor may they 
operate in respect of newly issued Shares or 
Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury.
Global Restricted Stock Plan
It is the intention of the Committee that during 
2010 two currently operated restricted stock 
plans (the RSU Plan and the MedImmune 
RSU Plan) applicable to below SET-level 
employees will be discontinued. They will be 
replaced by a single new Global Restricted 
Stock Plan (GRSP) (again operated only for 
below SET-level employees and on broadly 
similar terms to the existing plans) for the 
purposes of simplifying the administration 
and operation of restricted stock awards. 
Awards granted under the GRSP will not 
involve the issue and allotment of new 
Ordinary Shares but rather rely on the 
market purchase of Ordinary Shares or ADSs 
that have already been issued. There is no 
intention to increase the overall quantum of 
awards applicable to target employees 
through the introduction of the GRSP.
Restricted Share Plan
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
was introduced in 2008 and provides for the 
grant of restricted share awards (RS Awards) 
to key employees, excluding Executive 
Directors. RS Awards are made on an ad hoc 
basis with variable vesting dates and may not 
operate in respect of newly issued Shares or 
Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury. 
The RSP has been used twice in 2009 to 
make RS Awards to 12 employees. The 
Committee has responsibility for agreeing 
any RS Awards under the RSP and for 
setting the policy for the way in which the 
RSP should operate.
Zeneca 1994 Executive Share 
Option Scheme
The Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option 
Scheme (Zeneca Plan) was replaced by 
the SOP. The last grant of options under 
the Zeneca Plan was in March 2000. 
Certain Executive Directors and other SET 
members have options outstanding under 
the Zeneca Plan, all of which are exercisable, 
the performance conditions having been 
satisfied. A description of the Zeneca Plan 
can be found in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements from page 161.
Other plans
In addition to the plans described above, 
the Company operates a Share Incentive Plan 
and a Savings-Related Share Option Plan 
in the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & 
Customs approved plans. Certain Executive 
Directors and other SET members are eligible 
to participate in these plans, more detailed 
descriptions of which can be found in Note 
24 to the Financial Statements.
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts for each of 
the Executive Directors, including their notice 
periods, are set out below. Either the 
Company or the Executive Director may 
terminate the service contract on 12 months' 
notice. It is the Board's intention that, in the 
event of early termination of an Executive 
Director's employment, any compensation 
payable under his/her service contract 
should not exceed the salary and benefits 
that would have been received had the 
contractual notice period been worked and 
this may be further reduced in line with the 
Executive Director's duty to mitigate losses. 
None of the Executive Directors has any 
provision in their service contracts giving 
them a right to liquidated damages or an 
automatic entitlement to bonus for the 
duration of their notice period. Compensation 
for any bonus entitlement will be assessed 
initially as  on target' but subject to adjustment 
by the Committee to take account of the 
particular circumstances of the termination.
Policy on external appointments and 
retention of fees
Subject to the specific approval of the Board 
in each case, Executive Directors and other 
SET members may accept external 
appointments as non-executive directors of 
other companies and retain any related fees 
paid to them, provided always that such 
external appointments are not considered by 
the Board to prevent or reduce the ability of 
the executive to perform his or her role within 
the Group to the required standard. Such 
appointments are seen as a way in which 
executives can gain a broader business 
experience and, in turn, benefit the Company.
John Patterson retired as an Executive 
Director on 31 March 2009. During 2009, 
he continued to serve as a non-executive 
director of Cobham plc. In respect of such 
position, he retained the fees paid to him for 
his services which, during the period from 
1 January to 31 March, amounted to  16,875.
Non-Executive Directors
None of the Non-Executive Directors 
has a service contract but all have letters 
of appointment. The effective dates of 
appointment for each of the Non-Executive 
Directors are set out in the table opposite. 
In accordance with the Company's Articles, 
following their appointment, Directors 
must retire at each AGM and may present 
themselves for election or re-election. 
None of the Non-Executive Directors has 
any provision in their letter of appointment 
giving them a right to compensation payable 
upon early termination of their appointment. 
They are not eligible for performance-related 
bonuses or the grant of share options. 
No pension contributions are made on their 
behalf. None of the Non-Executive Directors 
has participated or will participate in any 
decision made by the Board in relation 
to the determination of their own fees. 
The Chairman's annual fee is  325,000, 
and the annual fees applicable to other 
Non-Executive Directors are set out opposite. 
In addition to the mandatory shareholding 
requirement imposed on all Directors 
under the Articles described in the 
Directors' shareholding section on page 99, 
in December 2008 the Board agreed that 
each Non-Executive Director should also 
be encouraged to build up, over time, 
a shareholding in the Company with a value 
approximately equivalent to the basic annual 
fee for a Non-Executive Director ( 60,000) 
or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately 
equivalent to his annual fee ( 325,000).
Audit
The Directors' emoluments in 2009 disclosed 
in the Directors' emoluments in 2009 section 
from page 111 and the details of the 
Directors' interests in Ordinary Shares 
disclosed in the Directors' interests in shares 
section on page 115, have been audited 
by KPMG. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
111 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
Details of Executive Directors' service contracts at 31 December 2009
Date of Unexpired term at Notice
Executive Director
1
service contract 31 December 2009 period
David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months
Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months
1 
Neither of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to a bonus for the 
duration of their notice period.
Non-Executive Directors' terms and conditions
Effective date of
Non-Executive Director
1, 2
appointment
Bo Angelin 24 July 2007
John Buchanan 25 April 2002
Jean-Philippe Courtois 18 February 2008
Jane Henney 24 September 2001
Michele Hooper 1 July 2003
Rudy Markham 12 September 2008
Dame Nancy Rothwell 27 April 2006
Louis Schweitzer 11 March 2004
John Varley 26 July 2006
Marcus Wallenberg 6 April 1999
1 
None of the letters of appointment applicable to Non-Executive Directors confers upon them any right to compensation payable on early termination of their 
appointment.
2 
Pursuant to the Articles, the continued appointment of each Non-Executive Director is subject to their election or re-election at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors' fees
 
Basic Fee 60,000
Senior independent Non-Executive Director (an additional) 25,000
Membership of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee 15,000
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee (an additional) 20,000
Membership of the Science Committee 10,000
Chairman of the Science Committee (an additional) 7,000
Directors' emoluments in 2009
The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards, 
paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2009 was  6.2 million ($9.6 million). 
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars. All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits 
for Directors are established in pounds sterling. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
112 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' remuneration - pounds sterling
Salary Bonus Bonus Taxable Other payments Total Total Total
and fees Cash Shares
1
benefits and allowances 2009 2008 2007
Name  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000
Louis Schweitzer 325 - - - - 325 303 260
David Brennan 973
3
1,167 584 26 436
2
3,186 2,506 2,150
Simon Lowth 550 550 275 8 43
4
1,426
8
1,304 172
Bo Angelin 70 - - - - 70 63 21
John Buchanan 110 - - - - 110 96 69
Jean-Philippe Courtois 75 - - - - 75 58 -
Jane Henney 85 - - - - 85 76 57
Michele Hooper 100 - - - - 100 90 64
Rudy Markham 75 - - - - 75 23 -
Nancy Rothwell 92 - - - - 92 80 54
John Varley 95 - - - - 95 83 56
Marcus Wallenberg 60 - - - - 60 53 40
Former Directors
John Patterson
6
135 187 - 3 121
5
446
8
1,081 982
H kan Mogren
7
33 - - - - 33 100 100
Others - - - - - - - 463
Total 2,778 1,904 859 37 600 6,178 5,916 4,488
Directors' remuneration - US dollars
Salary Bonus Bonus Taxable Other payments Total Total Total
and fees Cash Shares
1
benefits and allowances 2009 2008 2007
Name $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000
Louis Schweitzer 504 - - - - 504 567 520
David Brennan 1,508
3
1,808 905 40 676
2
4,937 4,692 4,300
Simon Lowth 852 852 426 12 67
4
2,209
8
2,442 345
Bo Angelin 108 - - - - 108 118 42
John Buchanan 170 - - - - 170 180 138
Jean-Philippe Courtois 116 - - - - 116 109 -
Jane Henney 132 - - - - 132 142 114
Michele Hooper 155 - - - - 155 169 128
Rudy Markham 116 - - - - 116 43 -
Nancy Rothwell 143 - - - - 143 150 108
John Varley 147 - - - - 147 155 113
Marcus Wallenberg 93 - - - - 93 99 80
Former Directors
John Patterson
6
209 290 - 5 188
5
692
8
2,024 1,965
H kan Mogren
7
51 - - - - 51 187 200
Others - - - - - - - 929
Total 4,304 2,950 1,331 57 931 9,573 11,077 8,982
1 
These figures represent that portion of the 2009 bonuses required to be deferred into Shares to be held for a three-year period, as explained in the Bonus share deferral 
requirements section on page 107.
2 
Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards.
3 
This figure includes a sum of $83,000/ 54,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan which were paid into the 
plan by means of a salary sacrifice (see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 113 for further details).
4 
Relates to remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZeneca's UK flexible benefits programme.
5 
Relates to cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards and remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZeneca's 
UK flexible benefits programme.
6 
Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2009.
7 
Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2009.
8 
Does not include a cash allowance received in lieu of pension (see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 113 for further details).
For John Patterson, member contributions to the AstraZeneca Pension Fund of only a minimal amount for 2009 were paid through salary sacrifice, and as such no employee 
contributions are shown above or included within emoluments. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
113 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
In the tables on this page and on the previous page, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars at the average 
exchange rate for the year in question. These rates were:
GBP/USD
2009 0.645
2008 0.534
2007 0.500
Executive Directors were also granted Share Awards and Option Awards. Details of share options granted to, and exercised by, Directors 
and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the LTI plans, in the year are given in the Share options 
section on page 118 and in the Gains by Directors on exercise of share options section on page 119.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Pensions
Defined benefit arrangements
Pensions are payable to Directors in pounds sterling, with the exception of David Brennan's, whose pension is payable in US dollars. For 
ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2009 set 
out above. Except where otherwise stated, figures for John Patterson (a former Executive Director) reflect the period to 31 March 2009 when 
he retired as a Director. 
David John David John
Brennan Patterson Brennan Patterson
 000  000 $000 $000
Defined benefit arrangements
1. Accrued pension at 1 January 2009 822 365 1,275 566
2. Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation - - - -
3. Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 77 - 119 -
4. Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 16 - 25 -
5. Accrued pension at 31 December 2009 915 365 1,419 566
6. Employee contributions during 2009 - - - -
7. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2008 11,249 8,288 1 7,441 12,850
8. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2009
1
12,850 9,124 19,922 14,146
9. Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 1,600 836 2,481 1,296
10. Age at 31 December 2009 56
4
 12 61
2
 12 56
4
 12 61
2
 12
11. Pensionable service (years) at 31 December 2009 34 33
10
 12 34 33
10
 12
1 
The transfer value of John Patterson's accrued pension is calculated as at 6 April 2009, the date on which he retired from the AstraZeneca Pension Fund. 
John Patterson opted to take a commutation lump sum on 6 April 2009 in lieu of part of his pension entitlement. This lump sum was calculated and granted in accordance 
with the rules of the plan and amounted to  785,000 ($1,218,000). This reduced his pension entitlement after commutation to  303,000 per annum ($470,000).
For John Patterson, transfer values are calculated on the market related basis used by the AstraZeneca Pension Fund, in accordance with current UK legislation.
For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity. The minimum 
permissible value of such a lump sum distribution was modified in 2008.
For John Patterson, member contributions to the AstraZeneca Pension Fund of only a minimal amount for 2009 were paid through salary sacrifice, and as such no employee 
contributions are shown above or included within emoluments.
Defined contribution arrangements
In addition to the defined benefit arrangements set out in the Defined benefit arrangements section above, David Brennan participates in 
a 401(k) plan. He also participates in AstraZeneca's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP) which is operated as a supplemental 
non-qualified plan in respect of US employees should annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions under the qualified 
401(k) plan. Total employer matching contributions of $98,000 ( 64,000) were made to his 401(k) plan and EDCP during 2009 (2008: $14,000 
( 7 ,000)). David Brennan also made member contributions of $83,000 ( 54,000) by way of salary sacrifice to the EDCP (2008: $nil). Additionally, 
in January 2009, David Brennan, along with other eligible participants in the EDCP, received an automatic one-off excess match employer 
contribution in respect of his eligible earnings for 2008 under the EDCP. This amounted to $110,000 ( 70,000) relating to the 2008 plan year, 
$77,000 ( 41,000) of which was disclosed in the 2008 Directors' Remuneration Report. 
In addition to the defined benefit arrangements as described in the Defined benefit arrangements section above, John Patterson chose to 
receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2009 amounted to  42,000 ($65,000) (2008:  84,000 ($157,000)).
As described in the UK Executive Directors' pension arrangements section on page 106, Simon Lowth chose to receive a cash allowance in 
lieu of pension, which during 2009 amounted to  132,000 ($205,000) (2008:  132,000 ($247,000)).
Transactions with Directors
There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2009 or 2008. Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10
TSR over a five-year period
80
100
120
140
160
AstraZeneca Pharma Peers Average FTSE 100
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 2007 to 31 Dec 2009
(for the 2007 award) %
ABT SP BMS GSK AZ J&J MRK WYE SA NOV RCH PFI LLY
5th
1st
-40
-20
0
20
40
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 2008 to 31 Dec 2009
(for the 2008 award) %
AZ GSK ABT J&J NOV BMS SA RCH PFI LLY MRK
0
10
20
30
40
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 2009 to 31 Dec 2009
(for the 2009 award) %
MRK BMS SA AZ GSK PFI J&J LLY RCH NOV ABT
4th
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
114 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Total shareholder return
The Regulations require the inclusion of 
a graph showing total shareholder return 
(TSR) over a five-year period in respect of 
a holding of the Company's shares, plotted 
against TSR in respect of a hypothetical 
holding of shares of a similar kind and 
number by reference to which a broad equity 
market index is calculated. The Company 
is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and 
consequently, for the purposes of this graph, 
which is set out opposite, we have selected 
the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate 
index. This graph is re-based to 100 at the 
start of the rolling five-year period. We have 
also included a  Pharma Peers Average' 
(excluding Schering-Plough Corporation and 
Wyeth Inc.), which reflects the TSR of the 
same comparator group used for the PSP 
graphs opposite.
The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of 
a holding of the Company's shares over the 
relevant performance period be compared 
with the TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical 
companies (as described in the Performance 
targets section on page 108). The graphs 
opposite show how the Company's TSR 
performance has compared with the TSR 
for the relevant companies in the comparator 
group from the first day in the relevant 
three-year performance period in respect 
of each Share Award to 31 December 2009 
and how the Company ranks against those 
other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return 
index is averaged in the TSR calculations for 
each company over the three months prior to 
the start of the relevant performance period 
(as stipulated in the PSP) and, for the purposes 
of the graphs opposite, over the last three 
months of 2009. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
115 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
Directors' interests in shares
Beneficial interests
The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors (including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined 
in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 or on the date of resignation 
of such Director (if earlier). All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated. However, interests in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that 
are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP and/or the AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan discussed elsewhere, are not included in the 
table below but are shown in the Performance Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables on pages 116 and 117 , respectively. None of the 
Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Company's subsidiaries. Between 31 December 2009 and 28 January 2010, 
there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below. 
Name
Beneficial interest in Ordinary Shares at  
1 January 2009 or (if later) appointment date
Change to  
beneficial interest
Beneficial interest in Ordinary Shares at  
31 December 2009 or (if earlier) resignation date
Louis Schweitzer 4,000 1,356 5,356
H kan Mogren
1
62,164 - 62,164
David Brennan 112,848 15,527
2
128,375
3
Simon Lowth 850 - 850
John Patterson
4
8,640 20,877 29,517
Bo Angelin 500 287 787
John Buchanan 2,500 - 2,500
Jean-Philippe Courtois 500 2,135 2,635
Jane Henney 500 287 787
Michele Hooper 500 1,200 1,700
Rudy Markham 1,137 283 1,420
Nancy Rothwell 500 287 787
John Varley 500 - 500
Marcus Wallenberg 67,264 - 67,264
1 
Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2009.
2 
This figure represents the difference between the net number of ADSs acquired by David Brennan from the vestings of his 2006 Share Awards under the PSP and the 
AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan and the net reduction in his notional beneficial interest in ADSs held within the unitised stock plans (see separate tables and 
footnotes below).
3 
The total number of Ordinary Shares and ADSs in which David Brennan has an interest (including potential interests in unreleased shares held in Company plans as 
detailed in the tables below) has increased in 2009 by 67,968 to 576,790 as at 31 December 2009.
4 
Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2009.
Unitised stock plans
David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests which were awarded to him prior to him becoming CEO 
in the following plans: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca 
Savings and Security Plan. These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has been deferred 
(and are not incentive awards in their own right). Participants hold units in each plan, which represents a long-term equity interest in the Company. 
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs. The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs 
and adding the cash position. The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights. David Brennan is deemed to have 
a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs. Therefore, the number 
of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
Unitised stock plan ADSs held at 1 January 2009 Net ADSs acquired/(disposed) during 2009 ADSs held at 31 December 2009
AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 40,940 (5,034)
1
35,906
AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 32,003 (32,003)
1
-
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 7,700 403 8,103
1 
These figures relate to scheduled distributions in February 2009.
No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they 
have different voting rights to other shareholders. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
116 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Performance Share Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2009 in Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP are not included in the table 
on the previous page but are shown below:
Number of shares
Award price
pence
Price on vesting date
pence Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2006 Share Award 73,109 2975 2287 24.03.06 24.03.09 01.01.06 - 31.12.08
2006 Share Award - Part 2 19,092 2848 2604 19.05.06 19.05.09 01.01.06 - 31.12.08
2007 Share Award 107,051 2744 30.03.07 30.03.10 01.01.07 - 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 161,546 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
Total at 1 January 2009 360,798
Partial vesting of 2006 Share Award
2
(65,067)
3
2287
Partial lapse of 2006 Share Award (8,042)
Partial vesting of 2006 Share Award - Part 2
2
(16,992)
4
2604
Partial lapse of 2006 Share Award - Part 2 (2,100)
2009 Share Award 133,347 2280 27.03.09 27.03. 12 01.01.09 - 31.12.11
Total at 31 December 2009 401,944
John Patterson
2006 Share Award 32,319 2975 2287 24.03.06 24.03.09 01.01.06 - 31.12.08
2007 Share Award 36,785 2744 30.03.07 30.03.10 01.01.07 - 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 57,385 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
Total at 1 January 2009 126,489
Partial vesting of 2006 Share Award
2
(28,764)
5
2287
Partial lapse of 2006 Share Award (3,555)
Pro-rata forfeiture of 2007 Share Award (12,183)
6
Pro-rata forfeiture of 2008 Share Award (38,047)
6
Total at 31 March 2009 43,940
7
Simon Lowth
2007 Share Award 15,554 2210 16.11.07 16.11.10 01.01.07 - 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 58,448 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
Total at 1 January 2009 74,002
2009 Share Award 54,276 2280 27.03.09 27.03. 12 01.01.09 - 31.12.11
Total at 31 December 2009 128,278
1 
UK date convention applies.
2 
Share Awards granted in 2006 vested in 2009 at 89% based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets (which are set out in the AstraZeneca 
Performance Share Plan section from page 108).
3 
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 38,389 Ordinary Shares.
4 
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 10,025 Ordinary Shares.
5 
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, John Patterson became beneficially interested in a net number of 16,970 Ordinary Shares.
6 
In accordance with the PSP rules.
7 
The remaining 24,602 Shares of the 2007 Share Award and 19,338 Shares of the 2008 Share Award will vest on the relevant scheduled vesting date subject to the 
achievement of the performance conditions measured over the whole of the relevant performance period (as set out in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan - 
Performance conditions section on page 108). AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
117 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
Deferred bonus plan
As described in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 107, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET 
members to defer a certain proportion of any short-term bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs. The proportion of bonus currently 
deferred into Ordinary Shares or ADSs is one-third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for all other SET members. The 
interests of Directors and former Directors at 31 December 2009, or on the date of resignation (if earlier), in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are 
the subject of awards under these arrangements are not included in the table on the previous page but are shown below:
Number of shares
Award price
pence
Price on vesting date
pence Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
David Brennan
2006 Award 6,352 2639 2415 24.02.06 24.02.09
2007 Award 12,014 2911 23.02.07 23.02.10
2008 Award 16,810 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
Total at 1 January 2009 35,176
Vesting of 2006 Award (6,352)
2
2415
2009 Award 1 7,992 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 31 December 2009 46,816
John Patterson
2006 Award 6,623 2639 2415 24.02.06 24.02.09
2007 Award 5,600 2911 23.02.07 23.02.10
2008 Award 7,810 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
Total at 1 January 2009 20,033
Vesting of 2006 Award (6,623)
3
2415
2009 Award 7,256 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 31 March 2009 20,666
4
Simon Lowth
2008 Award 1,340 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
Total at 1 January 2009 1,340
2009 Award 9,775 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 31 December 2009 11,115
1 
UK date convention applies.
2 
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 3,747 Ordinary Shares.
3 
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, John Patterson became beneficially interested in a net number of 3,907 Ordinary Shares.
4 
In accordance with the plan rules on leavers, John Patterson's 2007, 2008 and 2009 awards will vest on the relevant scheduled vesting date. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
118 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Share options 
The interests of Directors, and of former Directors who served during 2009, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the 
SOP , the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the Zeneca Plan, are included in the following table. No options were exercised 
during 2009. All grants in 2009 were made under the SOP, unless otherwise indicated.
Number of Ordinary 
Shares under option
1
Exercise price per  
Ordinary Share
2
First day 
 exercisable
3, 4
Last day  
exercisable
3, 4
H kan Mogren At 1 January 2009 244,896 2848p 13.12.02 24.03.13
- market price above option price 139,530 2499p 13.12.02 24.03.13
- market price at or below option price 105,366 3309p 23.08.03 27.03. 12
At 30 April 2009
5
244,896 2848p 13.12.02 24.03.13
- market price above option price 65,551 2231p 25.03.06 24.03.13
- market price at or below option price 179,345 3073p 13.12.02 27.03. 12
David Brennan At 1 January 2009 - options over Ordinary Shares 432,959 2410p 24.03.09 27.03.18
- market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 322,318 2226p 30.03.10 27.03. 18
- market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 110,641 2949p 24.03.09 18.05.16
Granted 27 March 2009 (Ordinary Shares) 160,016 2280p 27.03. 12 26.03.19
At 31 December 2009 - options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
- market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 1 January 2009 - options over ADSs 355,246 $45.22 16.03.03 23.03.15
- market price above option price (ADSs) 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15
- market price at or below option price (ADSs) 244,259 $47.44 16.03.03 25.03.14
At 31 December 2009 - options over ADSs 355,246 $45.22 16.03.03 23.03.15
- market price above option price (ADSs) 210,255 $42.91 26.03.07 23.03.15
- market price at or below option price (ADSs) 144,991 $48.58 29.03.04 27.03. 12
Simon Lowth At 1 January 2009 88,803 1951p 16.11.10 27.03.18
- market price above option price 88,803 1951p 16.11.10 27.03. 18
- market price at or below option price - n/a n/a n/a
Granted 27 March 2009 65,131 2280p 27.03. 12 26.03.19
At 31 December 2009 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19
- market price above option price 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price - n/a n/a n/a
John Patterson At 1 January 2009 305,396 2544p 25.03.02 27.03.18
- market price above option price 213,606 2279p 25.03.02 27.03. 18
- market price at or below option price 91,790 3163p 23.08.03 23.03.16
Lapsed (2,916) 2674p 25.03.02 24.03.09
At 31 March 2009
6
 302,480 2543p 16.03.03 27.03.18
- market price above option price 122,213 1991p 24.03.08 27.03. 18
- market price at or below option price 180,267 2917p 16.03.03 29.03.17
1 
Vesting is subject to satisfying the relevant performance conditions set out in each of the relevant share option plans. Further information on the performance conditions 
applicable to SOP is set out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan - Performance conditions section on page 109. As a Save-As-You-Earn scheme, the AstraZeneca 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan is not subject to any performance conditions. Awards granted under the Zeneca Plan are no longer subject to any performance conditions.
2 
Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3 
First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there are shorter exercise periods.
4 
UK date convention applies.
5 
H kan Mogren ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2009.
6 
John Patterson ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2009. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
119 Directors' Report  |  Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance
Gains by Directors on exercise of share options
The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years is set out below. 
No options were exercised during 2009.
Gains made by Directors  
on the exercise of share options
Gains made by the  
highest paid Director
Year $ $
2009 - -
2008 1,764.96 -
2007 783,858.08 -
During 2009, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows:
Stock Exchange
Ordinary Share/ADS market price 
as at 31 December 2009
Range of the Ordinary Share/ADS 
market price during 2009
London 2910.5p 2147p to 2947p
Stockholm 307.00 SEK 261.50 SEK to 356.00 SEK
New York $46.94 $30.24 to $47.54
On behalf of the Board
A C N Kemp
Company Secretary
28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
120 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Financial risk management 15 
objectives and policies 144
Financial instruments 146 16 
Trade and other payables 152 17 
Provisions for liabilities  18 
and charges  152
Capital and reserves  153 19 
Share capital of the Company 153 20 
Dividends to shareholders 154 21 
Acquisitions of  22 
business operations  154
Post-retirement benefits 156 23 
Employee costs and share 24 
option plans for employees 161
Commitments and  25 
contingent liabilities 166
Leases 185 26 
Statutory and other information 185 27 
Principal Subsidiaries 186
Independent Auditor's Report to the 
Members of AstraZeneca PLC 187
Company Balance Sheet 188
Accounting Policies (Company)   189
Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements 190
Fixed asset investments 190 1 
Non-trade creditors  190 2 
Loans 190 3 
Reserves 191 4 
Reconciliation of movement  5 
in shareholders' funds 191
Share capital 191 6 
Litigation and  7 
environmental liabilities 192
Statutory and other information 192 8 
Group Financial Record 193
Preparation of the 
Financial Statements and 
Directors' Responsibilities 122
Directors' Responsibilities for, 
and Report on, Internal Control 
over Financial Reporting 122
Auditor's Reports on the  
Financial Statements and on 
Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting (Sarbanes Oxley Act 
Section 404) 123
Independent Auditor's Report 
to the Members of  
AstraZeneca PLC (Group) 123
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income for 
the year ended 31 December 124
Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position at 31 December 125
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity for the  
year ended 31 December 126
Consolidated Statement of  
Cash Flows for the  
year ended 31 December 127
Accounting Policies (Group) 128
Notes to the Financial  
Statements (Group) 133
Product revenue information 133 1 
Operating profit 134 2 
Finance income and expense 134 3 
Taxation 135 4 
Earnings per $0.25  5 
Ordinary Share 137
Segment information 137 6 
Property, plant and equipment 139 7 
Goodwill 140 8 
Intangible assets 141 9 
Other investments 143 10 
Inventories 143 11 
Trade and other receivables 143 12 
Cash and cash equivalents 143 13 
Interest-bearing loans  14 
and borrowings 144 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
121
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
122 Financial Statements
Preparation of the Financial Statements 
and Directors' Responsibilities
Directors' Responsibilities for, and Report on, 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 
and the Group and Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group and Parent Company Financial 
Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group 
Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company Financial Statements, the 
Directors are required to:
Select suitable accounting policies  >
and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that  >
are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group Financial Statements,  >
state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU.
The Directors are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control 
over financial reporting. AstraZeneca's 
internal control over financial reporting is 
designed to provide reasonable assurance 
over the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles.
For the Parent Company Financial  >
Statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
Parent Company Financial Statements.
Prepare the financial statements on  >
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company's transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing 
a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and 
those regulations.
Due to its inherent limitations, internal control 
over financial reporting may not prevent or 
detect misstatements. Projections of any 
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods 
are subject to the risks that controls may 
become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Directors assessed the effectiveness of 
AstraZeneca's internal control over financial 
reporting as at 31 December 2009 based 
on the criteria set forth by the Committee of 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company's website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors' responsibility statement 
pursuant to DTR 4
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
our knowledge:
The Financial Statements, prepared in  >
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole.
The Directors' Report includes a fair review  >
of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the issuer 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board of Directors on 
28 January 2010:
David R Brennan
Director
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission in Internal Control-Integrated 
Framework. Based on this assessment, the 
Directors believe that, as at 31 December 
2009, the internal control over financial 
reporting is effective based on those criteria.
KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered 
public accounting firm, has audited the 
effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting as at 31 December 2009 and, 
as explained on page 123, has issued an 
unqualified report thereon. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
123 Financial Statements
Auditor's Reports on the Financial Statements 
and on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
(Sarbanes Oxley Act Section 404)
Independent Auditor's Report to the 
Members of AstraZeneca PLC
The report set out below is provided in 
compliance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). KPMG Audit Plc 
has also issued reports in accordance with 
auditing standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which 
will be included in the Annual Report on 
Form 20-F to be filed with the US Securities 
We have audited the Group Financial 
Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year 
ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 
124 to 186. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the EU.
This report is made solely to the Company's 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company's 
members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor's report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company's members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors' 
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 
122, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group Financial 
Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board's 
(APB's) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
and Exchange Commission. Those reports 
are unqualified and include opinions on 
the Group Financial Statements and on the 
effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting as at 31 December 2009 (Sarbanes-
Oxley Act Section 404). The Directors' 
statement on internal control over financial 
reporting is set out on page 122.
KPMG Audit Plc has also reported separately 
on the Company Financial Statements of 
AstraZeneca PLC and on the information 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited. This 
audit report is set out on page 187.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of 
financial statements is provided on the APB's 
website, frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements:
Give a true and fair view of the state of the  >
Group's affairs as at 31 December 2009 
and of its profit for the year then ended.
Have been properly prepared in  >
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU.
Have been prepared in accordance with  >
the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB
As explained in the Accounting Policies 
section to the Group Financial Statements 
set out on pages 128 to 132, the Group, in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation 
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB).
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements 
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Directors' Report for the financial year for 
which the Group Financial Statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group 
Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of 
the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Certain disclosures of Directors'  >
Remuneration specified by law are 
not made.
We have not received all the information  >
and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review:
The Directors' Statement, set out on pages  >
128 and 129, in relation to going concern.
The part of the corporate governance  >
statement relating to the Company's 
compliance with the nine provisions of 
the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements of 
AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 
31 December 2009 and on the information 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited.
Jimmy Daboo 
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square, London, EC4Y 8BB
28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
124 Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  
for the year ended 31 December
2009 2008 2007
Notes $m $m $m
Revenue 1 32,804 31,601 29,559
Cost of sales (5,775) (6,598) (6,419)
Gross profit 27,029 25,003 23,140
Distribution costs (298) (291) (248)
Research and development (4,409) (5,179) (5,162)
Selling, general and administrative costs 2 (11,332) (10,913) (10,364)
Other operating income and expense 2 553 524 728
Operating profit 2 11,543 9,144 8,094
Finance income 3 462 854 959
Finance expense 3 (1,198) (1,317) (1,070)
Profit before tax 10,807 8,681 7,983
Taxation 4 (3,263) (2,551) (2,356)
Profit for the period 7,544 6,130 5,627
Other Comprehensive Income:
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation 388 (1,336) 492
Foreign exchange differences on borrowings forming net investment hedges (68) 291 (40)
Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedge in connection with debt issue 1 1 (21)
Net available for sale gains/(losses) taken to equity 2 2 (9)
Actuarial loss for the period (569) (1,232) (113)
Income tax relating to components of Other Comprehensive Income 4 192 368 33
Other Comprehensive Income for the period, net of tax (54) (1,906) 342
Total Comprehensive Income for the period 7,490 4,224 5,969
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 7,521 6,101 5,595
Non-controlling interests 23 29 32
Total Comprehensive Income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 7,467 4,176 5,934
Non-controlling interests 23 48 35
Basic earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 5 $5.19 $4.20 $3.74
Diluted earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 5 $5.19 $4.20 $3.73
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 5 1,448 1,453 1,495
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 5 1,450 1,453 1,498
Dividends declared and paid in the period 21 3,026 2,767 2,658
All activities were in respect of continuing operations.
$m means millions of US dollars. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
125 Financial Statements
2009 2008 2007
Notes $m $m $m
Assets
Non  current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 7,307 7,043 8,298
Goodwill 8 9,889 9,874 9,884
Intangible assets 9 12,226 12,323 11,467
Derivative financial instruments 16 262 449 117
Other investments 10 184 156 182
Deferred tax assets 4 1,292 1,236 1,044
31,160 31,081 30,992
Current assets
Inventories 11 1,750 1,636 2,119
Trade and other receivables 12 7,709 7,261 6,668
Other investments 10 1,484 105 91
Derivative financial instruments 16 24 - -
Income tax receivable 2,875 2,581 2,251
Cash and cash equivalents 13 9,918 4,286 5,867
23,760 15,869 16,996
Total assets 54,920 46,950 47,988
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 (1,926) (993) (4,280)
Trade and other payables 17 (8,687) (7, 1 78) (6,968)
Derivative financial instruments 16 (90) (95) (31)
Provisions 18 (1,209) (600) (387)
Income tax payable (5,728) (4,549) (3,552)
(17,640) (13,415) (15,218)
Non  current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 (9,137) (10,855) (10,876)
Derivative financial instruments 16 - (71) -
Deferred tax liabilities 4 (3,247) (3,126) (4,119)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (3,354) (2,732) (1,998)
Provisions 18 (477) (542) (633)
Other payables 17 (244) (149) (229)
 (16,459) (1 7,475) (17,855)
Total liabilities (34,099) (30,890) (33,073)
Net assets 20,821 16,060 14,915
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital 20 363 362 364
Share premium account 19 2,180 2,046 1,888
Capital redemption reserve 19 94 94 91
Merger reserve 19 433 433 433
Other reserves 19 1,392 1,405 1,378
Retained earnings 19 16,198 11,572 10,624
20,660 15,912 14,778
Non  controlling interests 19 161 148 137
Total equity 19 20,821 16,060 14,915
The Financial Statements on pages 124 to 186 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 January 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
David R Brennan Simon Lowth
Director Director
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
at 31 December AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
126 Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 31 December
Share Capital Non-
Share premium redemption Merger Other Retained controlling Total
capital account reserve reserve reserves earnings Total interests equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 January 2007 383 1,671 71 433 1,398 11,348 15,304 112 15,416
Profit for the period - - - - - 5,595 5,595 32 5,627
Other comprehensive income - - - - - 339 339 3 342
Transfer to other reserves
1
- - - - (20) 20 - - -
Transactions with owners
Dividends - - - - - (2,658) (2,658) - (2,658)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 217 - - - - 218 - 218
Re-purchase of Ordinary Shares (20) - 20 - - (4,170) (4,170) - (4,170)
Share-based payments - - - - - 150 150 - 150
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables - - - - - - - (10) (10)
Net movement (19) 217 20 - (20) (724) (526) 25 (501)
At 31 December 2007 364 1,888 91 433 1,378 10,624 14,778 137 14,915
Profit for the period - - - - - 6,101 6,101 29 6,130
Other comprehensive income - - - - - (1,925) (1,925) 19 (1,906)
Transfer to other reserves
1
- - - - 27 (27) - - -
Transactions with owners
Dividends - - - - - (2,767) (2,767) - (2,767)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 158 - - - - 159 - 159
Re-purchase of Ordinary Shares (3) - 3 - - (610) (610) - (610)
Share-based payments - - - - - 176 176 - 176
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables - - - - - - - (11) (11)
Dividend paid by subsidiary to non-controlling interest - - - - - - - (26) (26)
Net movement (2) 158 3 - 27 948 1,134 11 1,145
At 31 December 2008 362 2,046 94 433 1,405 11,572 15,912 148 16,060
Profit for the period - - - - - 7,521 7,521 23 7,544
Other comprehensive income - - - - - (54) (54) - (54)
Transfer to other reserves
1
- - - - (13) 13 - - -
Transactions with owners
Dividends - - - - - (3,026) (3,026) - (3,026)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 134 - - - - 135 - 135
Share-based payments - - - - - 172 172 - 172
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables - - - - - - - (9) (9)
Dividend paid by subsidiary to non-controlling interest - - - - - - - (1) (1)
Net movement 1 134 - - (13) 4,626 4,748 13 4,761
At 31 December 2009 363 2,180 94 433 1,392 16,198 20,660 161 20,821
1 
Amounts charged or credited to other reserves relate to exchange adjustments arising on goodwill. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
127 Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended 31 December
2009 2008 2007
Notes $m $m $m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 10,807 8,681 7,983
Finance income and expense 3 736 463 111
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,087 2,620 1,856
Increase in trade and other receivables (256) (1,032) (717)
Decrease in inventories 6 185 442
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables and provisions 1,579 637 (168)
Other non-cash movements (200) 87 901
Cash generated from operations 14,759 11,641 10,408
Interest paid (639) (690) (335)
Tax paid (2,381) (2,209) (2,563)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 11,739 8,742 7,510
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions of business operations 22 - - (14,891)
Movement in short term investments and fixed deposits (1,371) 1 894
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (962) (1,095) (1,130)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 138 38 54
Purchase of intangible assets (624) (2,944) (549)
Disposal of intangible assets 269 - -
Purchase of non-current asset investments (31) (40) (35)
Disposal of non-current asset investments 3 32 421
Interest received 113 149 358
Payments made by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (11) (37) (9)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (2,476) (3,896) (14,887)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities 9,263 4,846 (7,377)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 135 159 218
Re-purchase of shares - (610) (4,170)
Issue of loans - 787 9,692
Repayment of loans (650) - (1,165)
Dividends paid (2,977) (2,739) (2,641)
Movement in short term borrowings (137) (3,959) 4,117
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (3,629) (6,362) 6,051
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the period 5,634 (1,516) (1,326)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 4,123 5,727 6,989
Exchange rate effects 71 (88) 64
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 13 9,828 4,123 5,727 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
128 Financial Statements
Accounting  
Policies
Basis of accounting and preparation 
of financial information
The Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, modified to include revaluation 
to fair value of certain financial instruments 
as described below, in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union ( adopted 
IFRS') in response to the IAS regulation 
(EC 1606/2002). The Consolidated Financial 
Statements also comply fully with IFRSs as 
issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board.
The Company has applied IAS 1  Presentation 
of Financial Statements (revised 2007)' which 
has introduced a number of terminology 
changes (including titles for the financial 
statements) and has resulted in a number 
of changes in presentation and disclosure. 
The revised standard has had no impact on 
the Group's profit for the period, net assets 
or cash flows.
During the year the Company has adopted 
IFRS 8  Operating Segments'. IFRS 8 requires 
an entity to report financial and descriptive 
information about its reportable segments. 
Reportable segments are operating segments 
or aggregations of operating segments that 
meet specified criteria. In addressing these 
criteria, it was determined that AstraZeneca 
is engaged in a single business activity of 
pharmaceuticals and that the Group does 
not have multiple operating segments. Our 
pharmaceuticals business consists of the 
discovery and development of new products, 
which are then manufactured, marketed and 
sold. All of these functional activities take 
place (and are managed) globally on a highly 
integrated basis. We do not manage these 
individual functional areas separately. 
We consider that the Senior Executive 
Team (SET) is AstraZeneca's chief operating 
decision-making body (as defined by IFRS 8). 
The operation of the SET is principally driven 
by the management of the commercial 
operations, research and development, 
and manufacturing and supply. The SET 
also includes Finance, HR and General 
Counsel representation.
All significant operating decisions are taken 
by the SET. While members of the SET have 
responsibility for implementation of decisions 
in their respective areas, operating decision-
making is at SET level as a whole. Where 
necessary these are implemented through 
cross-functional sub-committees that consider 
the group-wide impact of a new decision. 
For example, product launch decisions 
would be initially considered by the SET 
and, on approval, passed to an appropriate 
sub-team for implementation. The impacts 
of being able to develop, produce, deliver 
and commercialise a wide range of 
pharmaceutical products drive the SET 
decision-making process.
In assessing performance, the SET reviews 
financial information on an integrated basis 
for the Group as a whole, substantially in 
the form of, and on the same basis as, the 
Group's IFRS Financial Statements. The high 
upfront cost of discovering and developing 
new products coupled with the relatively 
insignificant and stable unit cost of production 
means that there is not the clear link that exists 
in many manufacturing businesses between 
the revenue generated on an individual 
product sale and the associated cost and 
hence margin generated on a product. 
Consequently the profitability of individual 
drugs or classes of drugs is not considered 
a key measure of performance for the 
business and is not monitored by the SET.
Resources are allocated on a group-wide 
basis according to need. In particular, capital 
expenditure, in-licensing, and research and 
development resources are allocated between 
activities on merit, based on overall therapeutic 
considerations and strategy under the aegis 
of the Group's Research & Development 
Executive Committee to facilitate a group-wide 
single combined discovery and development 
strategy. The Group's recent acquisitions in the 
biologics area, MedImmune and Cambridge 
Antibody Technology Group plc, have been 
integrated into the existing management 
structure of AstraZeneca both for allocation 
of resources and for assessment and 
monitoring of performance purposes. As 
such, although biologics is a relatively new 
technological area for the Group, it does not 
operate as a separate operating segment. 
The amendments to IFRS 7  Improving 
Disclosures about Financial Instruments' 
have been adopted and have resulted in 
additional disclosure.
IFRS 2  Amendment regarding Vesting 
Conditions and Cancellations', IAS 23 
 Borrowing Costs (revised 2007)', 
Amendments to IAS 36  Impairment of 
Assets', Amendments to IAS 19  Employee 
Benefits', Amendments to IAS 38  Intangible 
Assets' and Amendments to IAS 32 
 Financial Instruments: Presentation' and IAS 1 
 Presentation of Financial Statements' have 
all been adopted, none of which have had a 
significant effect on the Group's profit for the 
period, net assets or cash flows.
IFRIC 13  Customer loyalty programmes', 
IFRIC 15  Agreements for the Construction of 
Real Estate' and IFRIC 16  Hedges of a Net 
Investment in a Foreign Operation' have all 
been adopted but have had no impact on 
the overall reported results.
The Company has elected to prepare the 
Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards. These are 
presented on pages 188 to 192 and the 
accounting policies in respect of Company 
information are set out on page 189.
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
are presented in US dollars, which is the 
Company's functional currency.
In preparing their individual financial 
statements, the accounting policies of 
some overseas subsidiaries do not conform 
with adopted IFRSs. Therefore, where 
appropriate, adjustments are made in order 
to present the Group Financial Statements 
on a consistent basis.
Basis for preparation of financial 
statements on a going concern basis
Information on the business environment 
AstraZeneca operates in, including the factors 
underpinning the industry's future growth 
prospects, are included in the Directors' Report. 
Details of the product portfolio of the Group, 
our approach to product development and 
our development pipeline are covered in 
detail with additional information by Therapy 
Area in the Directors' Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial Review. In 
addition, Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial 
Statements include the Group's objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its 
capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
129 Financial Statements
Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised in profit 
in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal development expenditure is capitalised 
only if it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 
38  Intangible Assets'. Where regulatory and 
other uncertainties are such that the criteria 
are not met the expenditure is recognised in 
profit and this is almost invariably the case 
prior to approval of the drug by the relevant 
regulatory authority. Where, however, 
recognition criteria are met, intangible assets 
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-
line basis over their useful economic lives from 
product launch. As at 31 December 2009, 
no amounts have met recognition criteria.
Payments to in-license products and 
compounds from external third parties, 
generally taking the form of up-front payments 
and milestones, are capitalised. Since these 
products and compounds will only generate 
sales and cash inflows following launch, if it 
is in AstraZeneca's control to do so, our 
policy is to minimise the period between final 
approval and launch. These assets are 
amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, 
over their useful economic lives from product 
launch. Under this policy, it is not possible to 
determine precise economic lives for individual 
classes of intangible assets. However, lives 
range from three years to 20 years. These 
assets are not used in the research and 
development activities of other products.
Intangible assets relating to products in 
development (both internally generated and 
externally acquired) are subject to impairment 
testing annually. All intangible assets are 
tested for impairment when there are 
indications that the carrying value may not 
be recoverable. Any impairment losses are 
recognised immediately in profit. Intangible 
assets relating to products which fail during 
development (or for which development 
ceases for other reasons) are tested for 
impairment at the point of termination and 
are written down to their fair value (which is 
usually zero).
Business combinations and goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values 
are attributed to the identifiable assets and 
liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the 
fair value cannot be measured reliably in which 
case the value is subsumed into goodwill. 
Where fair values of acquired contingent 
liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the 
assumed contingent liability is not recognised 
but is disclosed in the same manner as 
other contingent liabilities. Goodwill is the 
difference between consideration paid and 
the fair value of net assets acquired.
Further information on critical judgements 
made in applying accounting policies, 
including details of significant methods and 
assumptions used, is included in Notes 6, 8, 
9, 16, 22, 23, 24 and 25. The financial risk 
management policies are detailed in Note 15.
Revenue
Revenues comprise sales and income 
under co-promotion and co-development 
agreements.
Income under co-promotion and co-
development agreements is recognised 
when it is earned as defined in the contract 
and can be reliably estimated. In general 
this is upon the sale of the co-promoted/
developed product or upon the delivery of 
a promotional or developmental service.
Revenues exclude inter-company revenues 
and value-added taxes and represent net 
invoice value less estimated rebates, returns 
and settlement discounts. Revenues are 
recognised when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to a third party. In general this is upon delivery 
of the products to wholesalers. In markets 
where returns are significant (currently only 
in the US), estimates of returns are accounted 
for at the point revenue is recognised. In 
markets where returns are not significant 
they are recorded when returned.
When a product faces generic competition 
particular attention is given to the possible 
levels of returns and, in cases where the 
circumstances are such that the level of 
returns (and, hence, revenue) cannot be 
measured reliably, revenues are only 
recognised when the right of return expires 
which is generally on ultimate prescription of 
the product to patients.
For the US market we estimate the quantity 
and value of goods which may ultimately be 
returned at the point of sale. Our returns 
accruals are based on actual experience over 
the preceding 12 months for established 
products together with market-related 
information such as estimated stock levels at 
wholesalers and competitor activity which we 
receive via third-party information services. 
For newly launched products, we use rates 
based on our experience with similar products 
or a pre-determined percentage.
and hedging activities and its exposures 
to credit, market and liquidity risk. Further 
details of the Group's cash balances and 
borrowings are included in Notes 13 and 
14 of the Financial Statements.
The Group has considerable financial resources 
available. As at 31 December 2009, the Group 
has $12.3 billion in financial resources (cash 
balances of $9.9 billion and committed bank 
facilities of $4.25 billion, with $1.9 billion of 
debt due within one year). The Group's 
revenues are largely derived from sales of 
products which are covered by patents and for 
which, historically at least, demand has been 
relatively unaffected by changes in the 
general economy. In addition, the Group has 
a wide diversity of customers and suppliers 
across different geographic areas. As a 
consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully despite the current 
uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Estimates and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles requires management to make 
estimates and judgements that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the Financial Statements and 
the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Actual 
results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements include classification of 
transactions between profit and the 
consolidated statement of financial position, 
whilst estimates focus on areas such as 
carrying values and estimated lives.
AstraZeneca's management considers 
the following to be the most important 
accounting policies in the context of the 
Group's operations.
The accounting policy descriptions set out 
the areas where judgement needs exercising, 
the most significant of which are revenue 
recognition, research and development, 
business combinations and goodwill, litigation 
and environmental liabilities, employee 
benefits, taxation and share-based payments. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
130 Financial Statements
policy it becomes impractical to calculate 
average asset lives exactly. However, the total 
lives range from approximately 10 to 50 years 
for buildings, and three to 13 years for plant 
and equipment. All items of property, plant 
and equipment are tested for impairment 
when there are indications that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Any impairment 
losses are recognised immediately in profit.
Borrowing costs
The Group has no borrowing costs with 
respect to the acquisition or construction 
of qualifying assets. All other borrowing 
costs are recognised in profit as incurred 
and in accordance with the effective interest 
rate method.
Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged to 
profit on a straight-line basis.
Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly 
or indirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC. Control is 
regarded as the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of the entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial results of subsidiaries are 
consolidated from the date control is 
obtained until the date that control ceases.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. The first in, first out 
or an average method of valuation is used. 
For finished goods and work in progress, 
cost includes directly attributable costs 
and certain overhead expenses (including 
depreciation). Selling expenses and certain 
other overhead expenses (principally central 
administration costs) are excluded. Net 
realisable value is determined as estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in 
selling and distribution.
Write-downs of inventory occur in the general 
course of business and are recognised in 
cost of sales.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised 
initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial 
recognition they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method, 
less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised 
initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial 
recognition they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised 
in respect of temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
branches and joint ventures where the Group 
is able to control the timing of reversal of the 
temporary differences and it is probable that 
the temporary differences will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future.
The Group's deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are calculated using tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset realised based 
on tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Accruals for tax contingencies require 
management to make judgements and 
estimates of ultimate exposures in relation 
to tax audit issues. Tax benefits are not 
recognised unless the tax positions will 
probably be sustained. Once considered to 
be probable, management reviews each 
material tax benefit to assess whether a 
provision should be taken against full 
recognition of that benefit on the basis of 
potential settlement through negotiation 
and/or litigation. All provisions are included in 
current liabilities. Any recorded exposure to 
interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the 
tax charge. See Note 25 for further details.
Share-based payments
All plans are assessed and have been 
classified as equity settled. The grant date fair 
value of employee share option awards is 
generally calculated using the Black-Scholes 
model. In accordance with IFRS 2  Share-
based Payment', the resulting cost is 
recognised in profit over the vesting period 
of the options, being the period in which the 
services are received. The value of the charge 
is adjusted to reflect expected and actual 
levels of awards vesting, except where the 
failure to vest is as a result of not meeting 
a market condition. Cancellations of equity 
instruments are treated as an acceleration 
of the vesting period and any outstanding 
charge is recognised in profit immediately.
Property, plant and equipment
The Group's policy is to write off the difference 
between the cost of each item of property, 
plant and equipment and its residual value 
systematically over its estimated useful life. 
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated 
remaining lives and residual values of 
individual productive assets, taking account of 
commercial and technological obsolescence 
as well as normal wear and tear. Under this 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised 
and subject to an impairment review, both 
annually and when there is an indication that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 
2002, goodwill was amortised over its 
estimated useful life; such amortisation ceased 
on 31 December 2002.
The Group's policy up to and including 
1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon 
acquisitions against reserves. Under IFRS 1 
 First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards' and IFRS 3  Business 
Combinations', such goodwill will remain 
eliminated against reserves.
Employee benefits
The Group accounts for pensions and other 
employee benefits (principally healthcare) 
under IAS 19  Employee Benefits'. In respect 
of defined benefit plans, obligations are 
measured at discounted present value whilst 
plan assets are measured at fair value. The 
operating and financing costs of such plans 
are recognised separately in profit; current 
service costs are spread systematically over 
the lives of employees and financing costs 
are recognised in full in the periods in which 
they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised immediately in other 
comprehensive income.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to 
the Group, the recognised asset is limited to 
the present value of any available future 
refunds from the plan or reductions in future 
contributions to the plan. Payments to 
defined contribution plans are recognised in 
profit as they fall due.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable 
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from 
Reported profit because it excludes items 
that are never taxable or tax deductible. The 
Group's current tax assets and liabilities are 
calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation 
purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profit will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. This requires judgements to 
be made in respect of the availability of future 
taxable income. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
131 Financial Statements
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions, being 
transactions denominated in a currency 
other than an individual Group entity's 
functional currency, are translated into the 
relevant functional currencies of individual 
Group entities at average rates for the 
relevant monthly accounting periods, which 
approximate to actual rates.
Monetary assets, arising from foreign 
currency transactions, are retranslated at 
exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
Exchange gains and losses on loans and on 
short-term foreign currency borrowings and 
deposits are included within finance 
expense. Exchange differences on all other 
foreign currency transactions are taken to 
operating profit in the individual Group 
entity's accounting records.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign 
currency transactions are not retranslated 
in the individual Group entity's accounting 
records.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
income and expense items for Group 
entities with a functional currency other than 
US dollars, are translated into US dollars at 
average exchange rates, which approximate 
to actual rates, for the relevant accounting 
periods. Assets and liabilities are translated 
at the US exchange rates prevailing at the 
reporting date. Exchange differences arising 
on consolidation are taken in other 
comprehensive income.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation 
of net investments in subsidiaries and of 
foreign currency loans which are designated 
in an effective hedge relationship are taken 
in other comprehensive income in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Gains 
and losses accumulated in the translation 
reserve will be recycled to profit when the 
foreign operation is sold.
Litigation and environmental liabilities
Through the normal course of business, 
AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, 
the settlement of which may involve cost 
to the Group. Provision is made where 
an adverse outcome is probable and 
associated costs, including related legal 
costs, can be estimated reliably. In other 
cases, appropriate disclosures are included.
Where it is considered that the Group is more 
likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved 
in defending the claim are charged to profit 
as they are incurred.
Bank and other borrowings
The Group uses derivatives, principally 
interest rate swaps, to hedge the interest 
rate exposure inherent in a portion of its 
fixed interest rate debt. In such cases the 
Group will either designate the debt as fair 
value through profit or loss when certain 
criteria are met or as the hedged item under 
a fair value hedge.
If the debt instrument is designated as fair 
value through profit, the debt is initially 
measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being included in profit as an expense) 
and is remeasured to fair value at each 
reporting date with changes in carrying value 
being recognised in profit (along with changes 
in the fair value of the related derivative). Such 
a designation has been made where this 
significantly reduces an accounting mismatch 
which would result from recognising gains 
and losses on different bases.
If the debt is designated as the hedged item 
under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially 
measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being amortised over the life of the 
bonds), and is remeasured for fair value 
changes in respect of the hedged risk at each 
reporting date with changes in carrying value 
being recognised in profit (along with changes 
in the fair value of the related derivative).
If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar 
denominated loans are designated as net 
investment hedges of foreign operations. 
Exchange differences arising on re-
translation of net investments and of foreign 
currency loans which are designated in an 
effective net investment hedge relationship, 
are recognised in other comprehensive 
income. All other exchange differences 
giving rise to changes in the carrying value 
of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are 
recognised in profit.
Other interest-bearing loans are initially 
measured at fair value (including direct 
transaction costs) and are subsequently 
remeasured to amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method at each 
reporting date. Changes in carrying value 
are recognised in profit.
Derivatives
Derivatives are initially measured at fair value 
(with direct transaction costs being included 
in profit as an expense) and are 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at 
each reporting date. Changes in carrying 
value are recognised in profit.
Financial instruments
The Group's financial instruments include 
interests in leases and rights and obligations 
under employee benefit plans which are 
dealt with in specific accounting policies.
The Group's other financial instruments 
include:
Cash and cash equivalents >
Fixed deposits >
Other investments >
Loans and borrowings >
Derivatives. >
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash 
in hand, current balances with banks and 
similar institutions and highly liquid investments 
with maturities of three months or less when 
acquired. They are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash and are held at 
amortised cost.
Fixed deposits
Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds 
held with banks and other financial institutions, 
are initially measured at fair value (including 
direct transaction costs) and are subsequently 
remeasured to amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method at each 
reporting date. Changes in carrying value 
are recognised in profit.
Other investments
Where investments have been classified as 
held for trading, they are measured initially 
at fair value and subsequently at fair value. 
Changes in fair value are recognised in profit.
In all other circumstances, the investments are 
initially measured at fair value (including direct 
transaction costs) and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each reporting 
date. Changes in carrying value due to 
changes in exchange rates or impairments 
are recognised in profit. All other changes 
in fair value are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in profit when there 
is a decline in the value of an investment that 
is deemed to be other than temporary. On 
disposal of the investment, the cumulative 
amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income is recognised in profit as part of the 
gain or loss on disposal. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
132 Financial Statements
Cumulative exchange differences -  >
the Group chose to set the cumulative 
exchange difference reserve at 1 January 
2003 to zero.
Accounting standards 
and interpretations issued 
but not yet adopted
A revised IFRS 3  Business Combinations' was 
issued in January 2008. The following changes 
will be relevant to the Group's operations:
Contingent consideration will be measured  >
at fair value, with subsequent changes to 
the fair value being recognised in profit.
Transaction costs, other than share  >
and debt issue costs, will be expensed 
as incurred.
Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree  >
will be measured at fair value with the gain 
or loss recognised in profit.
Any non-controlling (minority) interest will  >
be measured at either fair value, or at its 
proportionate interest in the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on 
a transaction-by-transaction basis.
The revised Standard is effective for 
AstraZeneca business combinations on or 
after 1 January 2010 and will be applied 
prospectively from that date.
An amendment to IAS 27  Consolidated and 
Separate Financial Statements (2008)' was 
issued in January 2008. The amendment 
requires changes in ownership interests in 
a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to 
be recognised as an equity transaction. 
If control of a subsidiary is lost, any retained 
interest is measured at fair value with the gain 
or loss recognised in profit. The amendment 
is effective for accounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 July 2009 and will not have a 
significant impact upon the net results, net 
assets or disclosures of AstraZeneca.
A revised IFRS 1  First-time Adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards' 
was issued in November 2008 and will have 
no impact on AstraZeneca.
IFRS 9  Financial Instruments' was issued in 
November 2009. It is applicable to financial 
assets and requires classification and 
measurement in either the amortised cost 
or the fair value category. It is effective for 
accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013. The adoption of IFRS 9 is not 
expected to have a significant impact upon 
the net results or net assets of AstraZeneca.
Where it is considered that the Group has 
a valid contract which provides the right to 
reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise) 
of legal costs and/or all or part of any loss 
incurred or for which a provision has been 
established, the best estimate of the amount 
expected to be received is recognised as 
an asset.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental 
liabilities relating to its past operations, 
principally in respect of soil and groundwater 
remediation costs. Provisions for these costs 
are made when there is a present obligation 
and where it is probable that expenditure on 
remedial work will be required and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the cost. Provisions 
are discounted where the effect is material.
Impairment
The carrying value of non-financial assets, 
other than inventories and deferred tax assets, 
are reviewed at least annually to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment. 
For goodwill, intangible assets under 
development and for any other assets 
where such indication exists, the asset's 
recoverable amount is estimated based on the 
greater of its value in use and its fair value less 
cost to sell. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows, adjusted for the 
risks specific to each asset, are discounted to 
their present value using a discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the general risks 
affecting the pharmaceutical industry. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, assets are 
grouped together into the smallest group 
of assets that generates cash inflows from 
continuing use that are largely independent 
of the cash flows of other assets. Impairment 
losses are recognised in profit.
International accounting transition
On transition to using adopted IFRS in the 
year ended 31 December 2005, the Company 
took advantage of several optional exemptions 
available in IFRS 1  First-time Adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards'. 
The major impacts which are of continuing 
importance are detailed below:
Business combinations - IFRS 3  Business  >
Combinations' has been applied from 
1 January 2003, the date of transition, rather 
than being applied fully retrospectively. 
As a result, the combination of Astra and 
Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, 
rather than through purchase accounting. 
If purchase accounting had been adopted, 
Zeneca would have been deemed to have 
acquired Astra.
An amendment to IFRS 5  Non-current Assets 
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations' 
was issued in May 2008 and provides 
clarification that assets and liabilities of a 
subsidiary should be classified as held for 
sale if the Parent is committed to a plan 
involving loss of control of the subsidiary, 
regardless of whether the entity will retain 
a non-controlling interest after the sale. 
The amendment is effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 
and will not have a significant impact upon 
the net results, net assets or disclosures 
of AstraZeneca.
The amendment to IAS 39  Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - 
Eligible Hedged Items' deals with two 
situations where diversity in practice exists 
on the designation of inflation as a hedged 
risk and the treatment of  one-sided' risks on 
hedged items. The amendment is effective 
for accounting periods beginning on or 
after 1 July 2009. The amendment is not 
expected to have a significant impact upon 
the net results, net assets or disclosures 
of AstraZeneca.
Revised IFRS 3  Business Combinations' 
was endorsed by the EU during 2009. 
The amendments to IAS 27  Consolidated 
and Separate Financial Statements (2008)', 
IAS 39  Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement - Eligible Hedged Items' and 
IFRS 5  Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations' were endorsed by 
the EU in 2009. IFRS 9  Financial Instruments' 
has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The following IFRIC interpretations have 
been issued but are not yet adopted 
by AstraZeneca:
Amendments to IFRIC 14  Prepayments of  >
a Minimum Funding Requirement'.
IFRIC 17  Distributions of Non-cash  >
Assets to Owners'.
IFRIC 19  Extinguishing Financial Liabilities  >
with Equity Instruments' .
The interpretations are effective for accounting 
periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2011, 1 July 2009 and 1 July 2010 
respectively. IFRIC 17 is not expected to 
have a significant impact upon adoption.
There is no impact expected from any 
other standards that are available for early 
adoption but that have not been adopted. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
133 Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Product revenue information
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Gastrointestinal:
Nexium 4,959 5,200 5,216
Losec/Prilosec 946 1,055 1,143
Others 106 89 84
Total Gastrointestinal 6,011 6,344 6,443
Cardiovascular:
Crestor 4,502 3,597 2,796
Seloken/Toprol-XL 1,443 807 1,438
Atacand 1,436 1,471 1,287
Zestril 184 236 295
Plendil 241 268 271
Onglyza
 
11 - -
Others 559 584 599
Total Cardiovascular 8,376 6,963 6,686
Respiratory:
Symbicort 2,294 2,004 1,575
Pulmicort 1,310 1,495 1,454
Rhinocort 264 322 354
Oxis 63 71 86
Others 201 236 242
Total Respiratory 4,132 4,128 3,711
Oncology:
Arimidex 1,921 1,857 1,730
Casodex 844 1,258 1,335
Zoladex 1,086 1,138 1,104
Iressa 297 265 238
Faslodex 262 249 214
Nolvadex 88 85 83
Abraxane
 
- 64 62
Ethyol 15 28 43
Others 5 10 10
Total Oncology 4,518 4,954 4,819
Neuroscience:
Seroquel 4,866 4,452 4,027
Local anaesthetics 599 605 557
Zomig 434 448 434
Diprivan 290 278 263
Others 48 54 59
Total Neuroscience 6,237 5,837 5,340
Infection and Other:
Merrem 872 897 773
Synagis 1,082 1,230 618
FluMist 145 104 53
H1N1 Influenza Vaccine 389 - -
Other Products 143 220 270
Total Infection and Other 2,631 2,451 1,714
Aptium Oncology 393 395 402
Astra Tech 506 529 444
Total 32,804 31,601 29,559 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
134 Financial Statements
2 Operating profit
Operating profit includes the following items:
Selling, general and administrative costs
AstraZeneca is defending its interests in various federal and state investigations and civil litigation matters relating to drug marketing and pricing 
practices and in respect of which the Company has made provisions in aggregate of $636m during 2009. $524m of this has been made in 
respect of the US Attorney's Office investigation into sales and marketing practices involving Seroquel and $112m relates to average wholesale 
price litigation. The current status of these matters is described in Note 25. These provisions constitute our best estimate at the time of losses 
expected for these matters.
Other operating income and expense
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Royalties
Income 255 288 236
Amortisation (79) (84) -
Impairment (150) (91) -
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 6 9
Gains on disposal of product rights 170 - -
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of other intangible assets 1 (17) (1)
Gains on divestments of non-core products 216 118 192
Impairment of intangible assets relating to future licensing and contractual income (115) - -
Other income 265 304 310
Other expense (18) - (18)
Other operating income and expense 553 524 728
Royalty amortisation relates to income streams acquired with MedImmune. The amortisation in 2007 ($53m) was posted to SG&A and 
not adjusted.
Restructuring and synergy costs
During 2009 the Group continued the restructuring and synergy programmes approved by the SET and announced in 2007 and 2008. In addition, 
the Group announced further programmes during the year. The tables below show the costs that have been charged in respect of these 
programmes by cost category and type. Severance provisions are detailed in Note 18.
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Cost of sales 188 405 415
Research and development 68 166 73
Selling, general and administrative costs 403 310 478
Total charge 659 881 966
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Severance costs 262 499 678
Accelerated depreciation and impairment 148 219 203
Other 249 163 85
Total charge 659 881 966
3 Finance income and expense
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Finance income
Returns on fixed deposits and equity securities 20 15 52
Returns on short-term deposits 22 127 298
Expected return on post-employment defined benefit plan assets 388 584 573
Fair value gains on debt, interest rate swaps and investments 1 128 36
Net exchange gains 31 - -
Total 462 854 959 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
135 Financial Statements
3 Finance income and expense continued
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Finance expense
Interest on debt and commercial paper (542) (664) (513)
Interest on overdrafts and other financing costs (18) (50) (9)
Interest on post-employment defined benefit plan liabilities (493) (589) (539)
Fair value charges on debt, interest rate swaps and investments (145) (2) (6)
Net exchange losses - (12) (3)
Total (1,198) (1,317) (1,070)
Net finance expense (736) (463) (111)
The amount of exchange gains and losses recognised in profit, other than those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through 
profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 (see Note 16), is a gain of $31m (2008: loss of $12m; 2007: loss of $3m).
4 Taxation
Taxation recognised in the profit for the period in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Current tax expense
Current year 2,854 2,946 1,890
Adjustment for prior years 251 130 261
 3,105 3,076 2,151
Deferred tax expense 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 98 (486) 379
Adjustment to prior years 60 (39) (174)
 158 (525) 205
Taxation recognised in the profit for the period 3,263 2,551 2,356
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Current and deferred tax
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation 16 20 32
Actuarial loss for the period 158 340 35
Share-based payments 17 9 (8)
Deferred tax impact of reduction in UK tax rate - - (28)
Other 1 (1) 2
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income 192 368 33
Taxation has been provided at current rates on the profits earned for the periods covered by the Group Financial Statements. The 2009, 2008 
and 2007 prior period current tax adjustments relate mainly to tax accrual to tax return adjustments, an increase in provisions in respect of 
a number of transfer pricing audits and double tax relief. The 2009, 2008 and 2007 prior year deferred tax adjustments relate to tax accrual to 
tax return adjustments and the recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets. To the extent that dividends remitted from overseas 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are expected to result in additional taxes, appropriate amounts have been provided for. No deferred 
tax has been provided for unremitted earnings of Group companies overseas as these are considered permanently employed in the businesses 
of these companies. Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxes and/or UK taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if distributed 
as dividends. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches for which deferred 
tax liabilities have not been recognised totalled approximately $14,846m at 31 December 2009 (2008: $8,449m; 2007: $12,639m).
Factors affecting future tax charges
As a Group involved in worldwide operations, AstraZeneca is subject to several factors that may affect future tax charges, principally the 
levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions, transfer pricing regulations and tax rates imposed. A number of material items currently 
under audit and negotiation are set out in detail in Note 25. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
136 Financial Statements
4 Taxation continued
Tax reconciliation to UK statutory rate
The table shown below reconciles the UK statutory tax charge to the Group's total tax charge.
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Profit before tax 10,807 8,681 7,983
Notional taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 28% (28.5% for 2008, 30% for 2007) 3,026 2,474 2,395
Differences in effective overseas tax rates (212) (8) (105)
Deferred tax credit relating to reduction in Swedish, UK and other tax rates
1
- (70) (57)
Unrecognised deferred tax asset 2 (7) (1)
Items not deductible for tax purposes 156 119 70
Items not chargeable for tax purposes (20) (48) (33)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 311 91 87
Total tax charge for the year 3,263 2,551 2,356
1 
The 2008 item relates to the reduction in the Swedish statutory corporation tax rate from 28% to 26.3% effective from 1 January 2009. The majority of the 2007 item 
relates to the reduction in the UK statutory corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities and the movements during the year, before offset of balances within countries, are as follows:
Pension Inter- Losses and
Property, and post- company Deferred tax credits
plant and Intangible retirement inventory Untaxed Accrued Share capital carried
equipment assets benefits transfers reserves
1
expenses schemes gains forward Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Deferred tax assets at 1 January 2007 37 2 604 853 - 323 113 - 57 28 2,017
Deferred tax liabilities at 1 January 2007 (502) (819) - - (881) - - (99) - (55) (2,356)
Net deferred tax balance at 1 January 2007
2
(465) (817) 604 853 (881) 323 113 (99) 57 (27) (339)
Taxation expense (130) 201 (99) (71) (225) 190 (45) 12 (96) 58 (205)
Other comprehensive income - - 8 - - - (8) - - - -
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking
3
3 (2,973) - 58 - 74 - - 369 (29) (2,498)
Exchange (35) (5) 15 46 (65) 11 2 (1) - (1) (33)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2007 (627) (3,594) 528 886 (1,171) 598 62 (88) 330 1 (3,075)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2007 66 59 531 907 - 611 62 - 330 71 2,637
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2007 (693) (3,653) (3) (21) (1,171) (13) - (88) - (70) (5,712)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2007
2
(627) (3,594) 528 886 (1,171) 598 62 (88) 330 1 (3,075)
Taxation expense 122 375 24 55 (119) 37 43 - 12 (24) 525
Other comprehensive income - - 340 - - - 9 - - (1) 348
Exchange 168 130 (113) (35) 199 (37) (14) 24 (7) (3) 312
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2008 (337) (3,089) 779 906 (1,091) 598 100 (64) 335 (27) (1,890)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2008 136 42 786 935 - 598 100 - 335 45 2,977
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2008 (473) (3,131) (7) (29) (1,091) - - (64) - (72) (4,867)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2008 (337) (3,089) 779 906 (1,091) 598 100 (64) 335 (27) (1,890)
Taxation expense 175 232 (61) 17 (303) (146) 5 - (100) 23 (158)
Other comprehensive income - - 140 - - - 17 - - - 157
Exchange (46) (36) 54 29 (80) 18 7 (7) (4) 1 (64)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2009 (208) (2,893) 912 952 (1,474) 470 129 (71) 231 (3) (1,955)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2009 266 47 918 968 - 553 129 - 231 34 3,146
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2009 (474) (2,940) (6) (16) (1,474) (83) - (71) - (37) (5,101)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2009 (208) (2,893) 912 952 (1,474) 470 129 (71) 231 (3) (1,955)
Analysed in the Statement of Financial Position, after offset of balances within countries, as:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Deferred tax assets 1,292 1,236 1,044 
Deferred tax liabilities (3,247) (3,126) (4,119)
Net deferred tax balance (1,955) (1,890) (3,075)
1 
Untaxed reserves relate to taxable profits where the tax liability is deferred to later periods.
2 
During 2008, the Group carried out a review of its deferred tax balances resulting in a reclassification of a deferred tax liability of $284m from property, plant and 
equipment to intangible assets as at 31 December 2007 ($328m as at 1 January 2007).
3 
The deferred tax liability of $2,498m relates to MedImmune and other acquisitions.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets of $104m have not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences (2008: $80m; 2007: $106m) because 
it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
137 Financial Statements
5 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share
2009 2008 2007
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders ($m) 7,521 6,101 5,595
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share $5.19 $4.20 $3.74
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share $5.19 $4.20 $3.73
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue for basic earnings (millions) 1,448 1,453 1,495
Dilutive impact of share options outstanding (millions) 2 - 3
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,450 1,453 1,498
There are no options, warrants or rights outstanding in respect of unissued shares except for employee share option schemes. The number of 
options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price of these options is shown in Note 24. The earnings figures used in the calculations 
above are post-tax.
6 Segment information
AstraZeneca is engaged in a single business activity of pharmaceuticals and the Group does not have multiple operating segments. Our 
pharmaceuticals business consists of the discovery and development of new products, which are then manufactured, marketed and sold. All of 
these functional activities take place (and are managed) globally on a highly integrated basis. We do not manage these individual functional areas 
separately. We consider that the Senior Executive Team (SET) is AstraZeneca's chief operating decision making body (as defined by IFRS 8). 
All significant operating decisions are taken by SET. In assessing performance, the SET reviews financial information on an integrated basis for 
the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Group's IFRS Financial Statements. Resources are allocated on 
a group-wide basis according to need. In particular, capital expenditure, in-licensing, and research and development resources are allocated 
between activities on merit, based on overall therapeutic considerations and strategy under the aegis of the Group's Research & Development 
Executive Committee to facilitate a group-wide single combined discovery and development strategy.
Geographic areas
The tables below show information by geographic area and, for revenue and property, plant and equipment, material countries. The figures 
show the revenue, operating profit and profit before tax made by companies located in that area/country, together with segment assets, 
segment assets acquired, net operating assets and property, plant and equipment owned by the same companies; export sales and the 
related profit are included in the area/country from which those sales were made.
Revenue
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
UK
External 1,809 1,910 1,981
Intra-Group 9,056 8,460 6,506
 10,865 10,370 8,487
Continental Europe
Belgium 353 380 387
France 1,880 1,945 1,806
Germany 1,197 1,225 1,164
Italy 1,012 1,145 1,111
Spain 742 832 840
Sweden 1,070 1,135 985
Others 2,622 2,696 2,291
Intra-Group 4,944 3,895 4,123
 13,820 13,253 12,707
The Americas
Canada 1,188 1,269 1,145
US 14,994 13,657 13,404
Others 1,113 1,155 872
Intra-Group 1,962 1,169 786
19,257 1 7,250 16,207
Asia, Africa & Australasia
Australia 790 763 631
Japan 2,214 1,861 1,585
China 811 627 403
Others 1,009 1,001 954
Intra-Group 80 78 56
4,904 4,330 3,629
Continuing operations 48,846 45,203 41,030
Intra-Group eliminations (16,042) (13,602) (11,471)
32,804 31,601 29,559
Export sales from the UK totalled $9,864m for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008: $9,439m; 2007: $7,546m). Intra-Group pricing is 
determined on an arm's-length basis. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
138 Financial Statements
6 Segment information continued
Operating profit Profit before tax
Profit from
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m $m $m $m
UK 3,124 2,907 2,060 2,813 2,612 1,828 
Continental Europe 4,809 3,136 2,894 4,821 3,233 2,964 
The Americas 3,265 2,705 2,734 2,832 2,440 2,781 
Asia, Africa & Australasia 345 396 406 341 396 410 
Continuing operations 11,543 9,144 8,094 10,807 8,681 7,983 
Non-current assets
1
Total assets
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m $m $m $m
UK 3,810 3,524 4,808 17,092 9,870 12,574
Continental Europe 3,966 3,674 4,709 6,706 6,275 7,400
The Americas 21,354 21,762 19,887 28,397 28,290 25,775
Asia, Africa & Australasia 476 436 427 2,725 2,515 2,239
Continuing operations 29,606 29,396 29,831 54,920 46,950 47,988
Assets acquired
2
Net operating assets
3
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
 $m $m $m $m $m $m
UK 537 440 929 4,473 4,234 5,043
Continental Europe 643 295 624 4,094 3,683 4,972
The Americas 711 3,252 1 7,858 19,186 21,033 19,742
Asia, Africa & Australasia 79 67 48 1,707 1,732 1,510
Continuing operations 1,970 4,054 19,459 29,460 30,682 31,267
1 
Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments.
2 
Included in  assets acquired' are those assets that are expected to be used during more than one period (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets).
3 
 Net operating assets' exclude short-term investments, cash, short-term borrowings, loans, retirement benefit obligations and non-operating receivables and payables.
Property, plant and equipment
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
UK 1,901 1,750 2,490
Sweden 1,700 1,722 2,204
US 2,386 2,200 1,915
Rest of the world 1,320 1,371 1,689
Continuing operations 7,307 7,043 8,298
Geographic markets
The table below shows revenue in each geographic market in which customers are located.
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
UK 1,057 994 1,003
Continental Europe 9,286 9,937 9,138
The Americas 17,096 15,945 15,459
Asia, Africa & Australasia 5,365 4,725 3,959
Continuing operations 32,804 31,601 29,559
Revenue is recognised at the point of delivery, which is usually when title passes to the wholesaler. Transactions with two wholesalers individually 
represented greater than 10% of total revenue (2008: 2, 2007: 2). The value of these transactions, recorded as revenue was $4,319m and 
$4,228m (2008: $3,936m and $3,900m, 2007: $4,101m and $4,236m). AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
139 Financial Statements
7 Property, plant and equipment
Total property,
Land and Plant and Assets in course plant and
buildings equipment of construction equipment
$m $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2007 5,082 9,363 463 14,908
Capital expenditure 53 304 812 1,169
Additions through business combinations 302 122 176 600
Transfer of assets into use 151 470 (621) -
Disposals and other movements (23) (555) (16) (594)
Exchange adjustments 254 470 28 752
At 31 December 2007 5,819 10,174 842 16,835
Capital expenditure 49 239 825 1,113
Transfer of assets into use 275 404 (679) -
Disposals and other movements (123) (558) (25) (706)
Exchange adjustments (803) (1,725) (100) (2,628)
At 31 December 2008 5,217 8,534 863 14,614
Capital expenditure 8 209 750 967
Transfer of assets into use 218 388 (606) -
Disposals and other movements (400) (937) (20) (1,357)
Exchange adjustments 293 609 42 944
At 31 December 2009 5,336 8,803 1,029 15,168
Depreciation
At 1 January 2007 1,656 5,799 - 7,455
Charge for year 227 849 - 1,076
Impairment 39 65 2 106
Disposals and other movements (3) (498) (1) (502)
Exchange adjustments 96 306 - 402
At 31 December 2007 2,015 6,521 1 8,537
Charge for year 247 812 - 1,059
Impairment 91 32 - 123
Disposals and other movements (120) (529) (2) (651)
Exchange adjustments (303) (1,192) (2) (1,497)
At 31 December 2008 1,930 5,644 (3) 7,571
Charge for year 219 674 - 893
Impairment 44 6 - 50
Disposals and other movements (343) (859) (4) (1,206)
Exchange adjustments 117 434 2 553
At 31 December 2009 1,967 5,899 (5) 7,861
Net book value
At 31 December 2007 3,804 3,653 841 8,298
At 31 December 2008 3,287 2,890 866 7,043
At 31 December 2009 3,369 2,904 1,034 7,307
Impairment charges in 2009 are due to the productivity initiatives in the global supply chain in Italy and research and development in Canada. 
These costs were recognised in cost of sales and research and development respectively.
Impairment charges in 2008 were due to the productivity initiatives in the global supply chain in France and research and development 
in Canada. These costs were recognised in cost of sales and research and development respectively.
Impairment charges in 2007 were due to the productivity initiatives in the global supply chain in Germany and the write-down of business 
support assets. These costs were recognised in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses respectively.
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freeholds 3,369 3,287 3,804 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
140 Financial Statements
8 Goodwill
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 10,211 10,225 1,430
Additions through business combinations - - 8,757
Exchange adjustments 17 (14) 38
At 31 December  10,228 10,211 10,225
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 337 341 333
Exchange adjustments 2 (4) 8
At 31 December 339 337 341
Net book value at 31 December 9,889 9,874 9,884
For the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill, the Group is regarded as a single cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is based on value in use using discounted risk-adjusted projections of the Group's pre-tax cash flows over 10 years, 
a period reflecting the average patent-protected lives of our current products. The projections include assumptions about product launches, 
competition from rival products and pricing policy as well as the possibility of generics entering the market. In setting these assumptions we 
consider our past experience, external sources of information (including information on expected increases and ageing of the populations in 
our established markets and the expanding patient population in newer markets), our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of 
future changes in the pharmaceutical industry. The 10-year period is covered by internal budgets and forecasts. Given that internal budgets and 
forecasts are prepared for all projections, no general growth rates are used to extrapolate internal budgets and forecasts for the purposes of 
determining value in use. No terminal value is included as these cash flows are more than sufficient to establish that an impairment does not exist.
In arriving at value in use, we disaggregate our projected pre-tax cash flows into groups reflecting similar risks and tax effects. For each group 
of cash flows we use an appropriate discount rate reflecting those risks and tax effects. In arriving at the appropriate discount rate for each 
group of cash flows, we adjust AstraZeneca's post-tax weighted average cost of capital (7.6% for 2009, 7.6% for 2008) to reflect the impact 
of relevant industry risks, the time value of money and tax effects. The weighted average pre-tax discount rate we used was approximately 
11% (11% for 2008).
As a further check, we compare our market capitalisation to the book value of our net assets and this indicates significant surplus at 
31 December 2009 (and 31 December 2008).
No goodwill impairment was identified.
The Group has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used and discount rate applied. The Directors have concluded 
that, given the significant headroom that exists, and the results of the sensitivity analysis performed, there is no significant risk that reasonable 
changes in any key assumptions would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its value in use. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
141 Financial Statements
9 Intangible assets
Product, marketing Software
and distribution rights Other intangibles development costs Total
$m $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2007 4,173 910 786 5,869
Additions - through business combinations 6,946 1,477 - 8,423
Additions - separately acquired 299 33 178 510
Disposals (52) (82) - (134)
Exchange adjustments 183 47 12 242
At 31 December 2007 11,549 2,385 976 14,910
Additions - separately acquired 2,743 20 178 2,941
Disposals - (33) (30) (63)
Exchange adjustments (770) (197) (133) (1,100)
At 31 December 2008 13,522 2,175 991 16,688
Additions - separately acquired 764 46 193 1,003
Disposals (200) (1) - (201)
Exchange adjustments 267 84 28 379
At 31 December 2009 14,353 2,304 1,212 17,869
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2007 1,859 443 460 2,762
Amortisation for year 364 112 78 554
Disposals (52) (81) - (133)
Impairment 98 22 - 120
Exchange adjustments 104 32 4 140
At 31 December 2007 2,373 528 542 3,443
Amortisation for year 529 182 96 807
Disposals - (9) (10) (19)
Impairment 516 91 24 631
Exchange adjustments (357) (104) (36) (497)
At 31 December 2008 3,061 688 616 4,365
Amortisation for year 481 162 86 729
Disposals (67) - - (67)
Impairment 93 273 49 415
Exchange adjustments 159 25 17 201
At 31 December 2009 3,727 1,148 768 5,643
Net book value 
At 31 December 2007 9,176 1,857 434 11,467
At 31 December 2008 10,461 1,487 375 12,323
At 31 December 2009 10,626 1,156 444 12,226
Other intangibles consist mainly of licensing and rights to contractual income streams.
Amortisation charges are recognised in profit as follows:
Product, marketing Software
and distribution rights Other intangibles development costs Total
$m $m $m $m
Year ended 31 December 2007
Selling, general and administrative costs 364 27 78 469
Other operating income and expense - 85 - 85
364 112 78 554
Year ended 31 December 2008
Cost of sales 39 - - 39
Research and development 10 - - 10
Selling, general and administrative costs 480 35 96 611
Other operating income and expense - 147 - 147
529 182 96 807
Year ended 31 December 2009
Cost of sales 48 - - 48
Selling, general and administrative costs 433 27 86 546
Other operating income and expense - 135 - 135
481 162 86 729 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
142 Financial Statements
9 Intangible assets continued 
Impairment charges are recognised in profit as follows:
Product, marketing Software
and distribution rights Other intangibles development cost Total
$m $m $m $m
Year ended 31 December 2007
Research and development 98 22 - 120
Year ended 31 December 2008
Cost of sales 115 - - 115
Research and development 144 - - 144
Selling, general and administrative costs 257 - 24 281
Other operating income and expense - 91 - 91
516 91 24 631
Year ended 31 December 2009
Research and development 93 7 - 100
Selling, general and administrative costs - 1 49 50
Other operating income and expense - 265 - 265
93 273 49 415
Amortisation and impairment charges
The write down in value of the intangible assets in relation to these income streams was determined based on value in use calculations using 
discounted risk-adjusted projections of the products' expected cash flows over a period reflecting the patent-protected lives of the individual 
products. The full period of projections is covered by internal budgets and forecasts. In arriving at the appropriate discount rate to use for 
each product, we adjust AstraZeneca's post-tax weighted average cost of capital (7.6% for 2009; 7.6% in 2008) to reflect the impact of risks 
and tax effects specific to the individual products. The weighted average pre-tax discount rate we used was approximately 14% (2008: 14%).
The 2009 impairment of product marketing and distribution rights results from the termination of development projects during the year. The 2009 
impairment of other intangibles results from a reassessment of the future royalties expected to be received relating to the HPV cervical cancer 
vaccine and a reassessment of other future licensing and contractual income expected to be earned within our biologics business. 
The 2008 impairment of product, marketing and distribution rights results, in part, from the settlement of the Pulmicort Respules patent litigation 
with Teva ($115m) and the  at risk' launch of a generic competitor to Ethyol ($257m). The 2008 impairment of other intangibles results from 
a reassessment of the future royalties expected to be received relating to the HPV cervical cancer vaccine. These impairment charges were 
determined using value in use calculations applying the same considerations as above. The post-tax weighted average cost of capital was 
7.6%. The remaining $144m impairment of product, marketing and distribution rights results from the termination of projects in development 
during the year.
The impairment in 2007 was in relation to the termination of a product in development acquired with MedImmune and four collaboration agreements.
Significant assets
Carrying value Remaining amortisation
Description $m period
Intangible assets arising from joint venture with Merck
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 227 4 and 8 years
Advance payment
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 516 9 years
Partial retirement (non-refundable deposit)
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,656 Not amortised
Partial retirement
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 792 12-18 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of CAT
2
Product, marketing and distribution rights 409 6 and 11 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of KuDOS
2
Product, marketing and distribution rights 285 Not amortised
RSV franchise assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune
3
 Product, marketing and distribution rights 4,884 16-22 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune
3
Licensing and contractual income 720 2-10 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune
3
Product, marketing and distribution rights 637 22 years
Intangible assets arising from the collaboration with BMS
4
Product, marketing and distribution rights 416 13-14 years
1 
These assets are associated with the restructuring of the joint venture with Merck & Co., Inc. Further information can be found in Note 25.
2 
Assets in development are not amortised but are tested annually for impairment.
3 
An allocation of the cost of these assets to Therapy Area is given in Note 22.
4 
These assets arise from the collaboration agreement with BMS for Onglyza
 
. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
143 Financial Statements
10 Other investments
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Non-current investments
Equity securities available for sale 184 156 182
184 156 182
Current investments
Equity securities held for trading 18 51 31
Fixed deposits 1,466 54 60
1,484 105 91
Impairment charges of $18m in respect of available for sale securities are included in other operating income and expense in profit (2008: $25m; 
2007: $18m).
11 Inventories
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Raw materials and consumables 445 409 579
Inventories in process 726 631 806
Finished goods and goods for re-sale 579 596 734
1,750 1,636 2,119
Inventory write-offs in the year amounted to $83m (2008: $51m; 2007: $95m).
12 Trade and other receivables
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Amounts due within one year
Trade receivables 5,863 5,657 5,415
Less: Amounts provided for doubtful debts (Note 16) (81) (99) (89)
5,782 5,558 5,326
Other receivables  1,170 978 593
Prepayments and accrued income 580 552 510
7,532 7,088 6,429
Amounts due after more than one year
Other receivables  27 44 54
Prepayments and accrued income 150 129 185
 177 173 239
 7,709 7,261 6,668
Provision for doubtful debts
Balance at beginning of year 99 89 52
Income statement (credit)/charge (20) 23 34
Amounts utilised, exchange and other movements 2 (13) 3
Balance at end of year 81 99 89
13 Cash and cash equivalents
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,077 1,039 1,403
Short term deposits 8,841 3,247 4,464
Cash and cash equivalents 9,918 4,286 5,867
Unsecured bank overdrafts (90) (163) (140)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 9,828 4,123 5,727
The Group's insurance subsidiaries hold cash and short term investments totalling $173m (2008: $400m; 2007: $347m), of which $49m 
(2008: $278m; 2007: $257m) is required to meet insurance solvency requirements and which, as a result, is not readily available for the general 
purposes of the Group. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
144 Financial Statements
14 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Repayment 2009 2008 2007
dates $m $m $m
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts On demand 90 163 140
Floating rate note US dollars 2009 - 650 -
4.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 1,073 - -
5.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 717 - -
Other loans Within one year 46 180 4,140
 1,926 993 4,280
Non-current liabilities
Floating rate note US dollars 2009 - - 649
4.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 - 1,053 1,099
5.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 - 702 -
5.4% Callable bond US dollars 2012 1,805 1,823 1,765
5.4% Callable bond US dollars 2014 821 789 767
5.125% Non-callable bond Euros 2015 1,072 1,051 1,099
5.9% Callable bond US dollars 2017 1,818 1,896 1,768
7% Guaranteed debentures US dollars 2023 346 324 323
5.75% Non-callable bond Pounds sterling 2031 558 501 691
6.45% Callable bond US dollars 2037 2,717 2,716 2,715
 9,137 10,855 10,876
All loans and borrowings above are unsecured. 
15 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group's principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, loans, current and non-current investments, 
cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage the Group's funding and liquidity requirements. 
The Group has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit. Each of these is 
managed in accordance with Board-approved policies. These policies are set out below.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and options, interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements for the 
purpose of hedging its foreign currency and interest rate risks. The Group may designate certain financial instruments as either fair-value hedges 
or net investment hedges in accordance with IAS 39. Key controls applied to transactions in derivative financial instruments are: to use only 
instruments where good market liquidity exists, to revalue all financial instruments regularly using current market rates and to sell options only 
to offset previously purchased options. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Capital management
The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders' equity (Note 20), debt (Note 14) and cash (Note 13). For the foreseeable future, 
the Board will maintain a capital structure that supports the Group's strategic objectives through:
Managing funding and liquidity risk. >
Optimising shareholder return. >
Maintaining a strong investment-grade credit rating. >
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with policies described below.
The Board's distribution policy comprises both a regular cash dividend and subject to business needs, a share re-purchase component. 
The Board regularly reviews its shareholders' return strategy, and in 2009 adopted a progressive dividend policy, whereby the Board intends 
to maintain or grow the dividend each year, targeting an average dividend cover of 2 times (ie a payout ratio of 50%), based on reported earnings, 
(before restructuring costs). In addition, after providing for business investment, funding the progressive dividend policy and meeting debt 
service obligations, the Board will regularly assess the opportunity to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders through 
share re-purchases.
The Group's net debt position (loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments) 
has reduced from $7 ,174m at the beginning of the year to a net funds position of $535m at 31 December 2009 as a result of strong net operating 
cash in flows. The Group's policy is to manage its debt level so as to maintain a strong investment-grade credit rating. The Group's current 
long-term credit rating is A1 by Moody's and AA- by Standard and Poor's, both with a stable outlook. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
145 Financial Statements
15 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk
The Board reviews the Group's ongoing liquidity risks annually as part of the planning process and on an ad hoc basis. The Board considers 
short-term requirements against available sources of funding taking into account forecast cash flow. The Group manages liquidity risk by 
maintaining access to a number of sources of funding which are sufficient to meet anticipated funding requirements. Specifically, the Group 
uses US commercial paper, committed bank facilities and cash resources to manage short-term liquidity and manages long-term liquidity by 
raising funds through the capital markets.
In addition to cash and cash equivalents of $9,918m, fixed deposits of $1,466m less overdrafts of $90m at 31 December 2009, the Group has 
committed bank facilities of $4.25bn available to manage liquidity. At 31 December 2009, the Group has issued $3,420m under an EMTN 
programme, and $7 ,507m under a SEC-registered programme. The Company regularly monitors the credit standing of the banking group and 
currently does not anticipate any issue with drawing on the committed facilities should this be necessary. The committed facilities consist of 
$3.6bn maturing in October 2012 and $0.65bn maturing between October and December 2010 and were undrawn at 31 December 2009.
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group maintains a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. The portion of fixed rate debt was approved by the Board and any variation requires 
Board approval. A significant portion of the long-term debt entered into in 2007 in order to finance the acquisition of MedImmune has been 
held at fixed rates of interest. The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to manage this mix.
At 31 December 2009, the Group held interest rate swaps with a notional value of $2.5bn, converting the 5.4% callable bond maturing in 
2014, and the 7% guaranteed debentures payable in 2023 to floating rates and partially converting the 5.4% callable bond maturing in 2012 
and the 5.9% callable bond maturing in 2017 to floating rates. No new interest rate swaps were entered into during 2009. At 31 December 2009 
swaps with a notional value of $1.5bn were designated as fair-value hedges and swaps with a notional value of $1.0bn related to debt designated 
as fair value through profit or loss. Designated hedges are expected to be effective and therefore the impact of ineffectiveness on profit is not 
expected to be material. The accounting treatment for fair-value hedges and debt designated as fair value through profit or loss is disclosed in 
the Accounting Policies section from page 128.
The majority of the Group's cash balances are held with third party fund managers with floating rates of interest being earned.
Foreign currency risk
The US dollar is the Group's most significant currency. As a consequence, the Group results are presented in US dollars and exposures are 
managed against US dollars accordingly.
Translational
Approximately 54% of Group external sales in 2009 were denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, while a significant proportion of 
manufacturing and research and development costs were denominated in sterling and Swedish krona. Surplus cash generated by business 
units is substantially converted to, and held centrally in US dollars. As a result, operating profit and total cash flow in US dollars will be affected 
by movements in exchange rates.
This currency exposure is managed centrally based on forecast cash flows for the currencies of Swedish krona, sterling, euro, Australian dollar, 
Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. The impact of movements in exchange rates is mitigated significantly by the correlations which exist between 
the major currencies to which the Group is exposed and the US dollar. Monitoring of currency exposures and correlations is undertaken on a 
regular basis and hedging is subject to pre-execution approval. 
Where there is non-US dollar debt and an underlying net investment of that amount in the same currency, the Group applies net investment 
hedging. The  500m January 2010 bond and the  750m November 2010 bond were issued in non-US dollar currencies to match investors' 
appetite but currency swaps were transacted to convert them into fixed-rate US dollar instruments. As at 31 December 2009, after currency 
swaps, 5.0% of interest-bearing loans and borrowings were denominated in sterling and 9.7% of interest-bearing loans and borrowings were 
denominated in euros. Exchange differences on the re-translation of debt designated as net investment hedges are recognised in other 
comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any ineffectiveness is taken to profit. Exchange differences on foreign currency 
borrowings not designated in a hedge relationship are taken to profit.
Transactional
The transaction exposures that arise from non-local currency sales and purchases by subsidiaries are, where practicable, fully hedged using 
forward foreign exchange contracts. In addition, the Group's external dividend, which is paid principally in sterling and Swedish krona, is fully 
hedged from announcement to payment date. Foreign exchange gains and losses on forward contracts transacted for transactional hedging 
are taken to profit.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets, such as cash balances (including fixed deposits and cash and cash equivalents), 
derivative instruments, trade and other receivables. The Group is also exposed in its net asset position to its own credit risk in respect of the 
2023 debentures and 2014 bonds which are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
146 Financial Statements
15 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the 
customer. The Group is exposed to customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned 
pharmacies, and the underlying local economic and sovereign risks vary throughout the world. Where appropriate, the Group endeavours 
to minimise risks by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance. The Group establishes an allowance for 
impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of specific trade and other receivables where it is deemed that a receivable 
may not be recoverable. When the debt is deemed irrecoverable, the allowance account is written off against the underlying receivable. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables and concentrations of credit risk are disclosed in Note 16.
Other financial assets
The Group may hold significant cash balances as part of its normal operations, with the amount of cash held at any point reflecting the level 
of cash flow generated by the business and the timing of the use of that cash. The majority of excess cash is centralised within the group 
treasury entity and is subject to counterparty risk on the principal invested. This risk is mitigated though a policy of prioritising security and 
liquidity over return, and as such cash is only invested in high credit quality investments. Counterparty limits are set according to the assessed 
risk of each counterparty and exposures are monitored against these limits on a regular basis. The majority of the Group's cash is invested in 
US Treasury bills, US Treasury funds, AAA-rated liquidity funds and short-term bank deposits.
The most significant concentration of financial credit risk at 31 December 2009 was $4,636m invested in US Treasury funds and $3,699m in 
US Treasury bills, which each bear credit exposure to the US government. There were no other significant concentrations of financial credit risk 
at the reporting date. All financial derivatives are transacted with commercial banks, in line with standard market practice. During the year the 
Group has entered into agreements with some bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefit of the other 
equivalent to the market valuation of the derivative positions above a predetermined threshold. The carrying value of such cash collateral held 
by the Group at 31 December 2009 was $2m. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial 
asset, including derivative financial instruments recorded, in the Statement of Financial Position.
16 Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
Set out below is a summary of the derivative financial instruments included in the Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2009, 
31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007.
Non-current assets Current assets Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Designated in a fair-value hedge 135 - - - 135
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 127 - - - 127
Other derivatives  - 24 (90) - (66)
31 December 2009 262 24 (90) - 196
Non-current assets Current assets Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Designated in a fair-value hedge 229 - - - 229
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 220 - - - 220
Other derivatives  - - (95) (71) (166)
31 December 2008 449 - (95) (71) 283
Non-current assets Current assets Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Designated in a fair-value hedge 49 - - - 49
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 68 - - - 68
Other derivatives  - - (31) - (31)
31 December 2007 11 7 - (31) - 86
To conform to the current basis of presentation, the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 
have been adjusted to reflect changes to the classification of derivative financial instruments at those dates. The adjustments have increased 
total assets at 31 December 2008 by $166m and at 31 December 2007 by $31m and have decreased current assets at 31 December 2008 
by $283m and at 31 December 2007 by $86m. The adjustments have had no effect on net assets or net income for the year. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
147 Financial Statements
16 Financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all the Group's financial assets and financial liabilities at 
31 December 2009, 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007. None of the financial assets or financial liabilities have been reclassified 
during the year.
Instruments Other
Instruments in a designated derivatives Available Held for Amortised Total
hedge relationship
1
at fair value
2
at fair value
3
for sale trading cost carrying value Fair value
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
2009
Cash and cash equivalents - - - - - 9,918 9,918 9,918
Overdrafts - - - - - (90) (90) (90)
Loans due within one year - - - - - (1,836) (1,836) (1,867)
Loans due after more than one year (1,629) (1,167) - - - (6,341) (9,137) (9,832)
Derivative financial instruments 135 127 (66) - - - 196 196
Other investments - - - 184 18 1,466 1,668 1,668
Other financial assets - - - - - 6,979 6,979 6,979
Other financial liabilities - - - - - (8,872) (8,872) (8,872)
2008
Cash and cash equivalents - - - - - 4,286 4,286 4,286
Overdrafts - - - - - (163) (163) (163)
Loans due within one year - - - - - (830) (830) (830)
Loans due after more than one year (1,727) (1,113) - - - (8,015) (10,855) (11,238)
Derivative financial instruments 229 220 (166) - - - 283 283
Other investments - - - 156 50 54 260 260
Other financial assets - - - - - 6,580 6,580 6,580
Other financial liabilities - - - - - (7,239) (7,239) (7,239)
2007
Cash and cash equivalents - - - - - 5,867 5,867 5,867
Overdrafts - - - - - (140) (140) (140)
Loans due within one year - - - - - (4,140) (4,140) (4,140)
Loans due after more than one year (1,544) (1,090) - - - (8,242) (10,876) (11,235)
Derivative financial instruments 49 68 (31) - - - 86 86
Other investments - - - 182 31 60 273 273
Other financial assets - - - - - 5,973 5,973 5,973
Other financial liabilities - - - - - (7,057) (7,057) (7,057)
1 
Includes borrowings and derivatives designated as hedged items in fair-value hedge relationships with respect to interest rate risk.
2 
Includes borrowings designated at fair value through profit or loss and related derivatives.
3 
Derivatives not designated in hedge relationships or related to financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Other financial assets represent trade and other receivables (Note 12) excluding prepayments and accrued income. Other financial liabilities 
represent trade and other payables (Note 17) excluding deferred income.
Credit risk decreased the fair value of the bonds designated as fair value through profit or loss by $145m for the year and increased the fair 
value by $35m since designation. Changes in credit risk had no material effect on any other financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair 
value in the Financial Statements. The change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk is calculated as the change in fair value not 
attributable to market risk.
The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of financial instruments together with their carrying values are as follows:
Cash and overdrafts - held on the Statement of Financial Position at amortised costs. Fair value approximates to carrying value.  >
Loans due within one year and after more than one year - the fair value of fixed-rate publicly traded debt is based on year-end quoted  >
market prices; the fair value of floating rate debt is nominal value, as mark to market differences would be minimal given the frequency of 
resets. The carrying value of loans designated at fair value through profit or loss is the fair value. For loans designated in a fair-value hedge 
relationship, carrying value is initially measured at fair value and remeasured for fair-value changes in respect of the hedged risk at each 
reporting date. All other loans are held at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments - consists of interest rate swaps (included in designated as fair value through profit or loss if related to  >
debt designated at fair value, or instruments in a hedge relationship as a fair-value hedge or other derivatives), forward foreign exchange 
contracts and foreign currency option contracts (included in other derivatives). All derivatives are held at fair value.
Interest rate swaps - the fair value is estimated using appropriate zero coupon curve valuation techniques to discount future contractual cash  -
flows based on rates current at year end.
Forward foreign exchange contracts - the majority of contracts for existing transactions had maturities of six months or less from year end.  -
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows using appropriate yield 
curves based on market forward foreign exchange rates at the year end.
Foreign currency option contracts - the fair value of option contracts is estimated using Black-Scholes valuation techniques. - AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
148 Financial Statements
16 Financial instruments continued
Other investments - held on the Statement of Financial Position at fair value. These include equity securities held on the Statement of Financial  >
Position as other investments (Note 10). The fair value of listed investments is based on year end quoted market prices. For unlisted 
investments, carrying values approximate fair value. 
Other financial assets and other financial liabilities - held on the Statement of Financial Position at amortised costs with carrying value  >
being a reasonable approximation of fair value.
The interest rates used to discount future cash flows, where applicable, are based on market swap curves at the reporting date, and were 
as follows:
2009 2008 2007
Derivatives 2.0% to 4.6% 3.8% to 4.6% 4.3% to 5.1%
Loans and borrowings 2.0% to 4.6% 3.8% to 4.6% 4.3% to 5.1%
Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. >
Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie, as prices)  >
or indirectly (ie, derived from prices).
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). >
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m
31 December 2009 
Equity securities available for sale 41 - 143 184
Equity securities held for trading 18 - - 18
Derivative assets - 286 - 286
Assets 59 286 143 488
Borrowing designated at fair value through profit or loss (1,167) - - (1,167)
Derivative liabilities - (90) - (90)
Liabilities (1,167) (90) - (1,257)
Equity securities available for sale which are analysed at Level 3 represent investments in private biotech companies. The fair values of these 
are approximated as cost. Hence, value is adjusted only for permanent impairment and for no other movement.
Net gains and losses on financial assets and financial liabilities
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Included in operating profit
Gains/(losses) on forward foreign exchange contracts 114 (399) (59)
(Losses)/gains on receivables and payables (141) 391 74
Losses on investments designated at fair value through profit or loss - - (1)
Losses on available for sale current investments (18) (25) (21)
(45) (33) (7)
Included in finance income and expense
Interest and fair value adjustments in respect of debt designated at fair value through profit or loss, net of derivatives (169) 87 (22)
Interest and changes in carrying values of debt designated as hedged items, net of derivatives (35) (64) (28)
Interest and fair value changes on fixed and short-term deposits and equity securities 43 140 344
Interest on debt, overdrafts and commercial paper held at amortised cost (501) (609) (436)
Exchange gains/(losses) on financial assets and liabilities 31 (12) (3)
(631) (458) (145)
Included in other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange differences on borrowings forming net investment hedges (68) 291 (40)
Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedge in connection with debt issue 1 1 (21)
Available for sale gains/(losses) taken to equity 2 2 (9)
(65) 294 (70) AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
149 Financial Statements
16 Financial instruments continued
$95m fair value losses on interest rate fair value hedging instruments and $97m fair value gains on the related hedged items have been included 
within interest and changes in carrying values of debt designated as hedged items, net of derivatives. All fair value hedge relationships were 
effective during the year. The accounting treatment for fair value hedges is disclosed in the Accounting Policies.
$94m fair value losses on derivatives related to debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss and $53m fair value losses on 
debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss have been included within interest and fair value adjustments in respect of debt 
designated at fair value through profit or loss, net of derivatives. The accounting treatment for debt designated at fair value through profit or loss 
is disclosed in the Accounting Policies section from page 128. The loss on cash flow hedge in connection with debt issue included in other 
comprehensive income relates to the amortisation of a loss on a cash flow hedge of a prospective debt issue which was taken directly to 
reserves in 2007. The total loss is being amortised through profit over the remaining life of the underlying debt instrument.
Ineffectiveness on the net investment hedge taken to profit was $nil (2008: $nil; 2007: $nil). The accounting treatment for net investment hedges 
is disclosed in the Accounting Policies section from page 128. 
Liquidity risk
The maturity profile of the anticipated future contractual cash flows including interest in relation to the Group's financial liabilities, on an 
undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows:
Bank Total Total
overdrafts Trade non-derivative derivative
and other and other financial Interest Currency financial
loans Bonds payables instruments rate swaps swaps instruments Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Within one year 139 2,373 8,687 11,199 (117) 89 (28) 11,171
In one to two years - 523 185 708 (117) - (117) 591
In two to three years - 2,246 - 2,246 (116) - (116) 2,130
In three to four years - 429 - 429 (86) - (86) 343
In four to five years - 405 - 405 (64) - (64) 341
In more than five years - 12,209 - 12,209 (239) - (239) 11,970
139 18,185 8,872 27, 196 (739) 89 (650) 26,546
Effect of interest (3) (7,467) - (7,470) 739 - 739 (6,731)
Effect of discounting, fair values and issue costs - 209 - 209 (262) 1 (261) (52)
31 December 2009 136 10,927 8,872 19,935 (262) 90 (172) 19,763
Bank Total Total
overdrafts Trade non-derivative derivative
and other and other financial Interest Currency financial
loans Bonds payables instruments rate swaps swaps instruments Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Within one year 345 1,271 7, 1 78 8,794 (60) - (60) 8,734
In one to two years - 2,335 61 2,396 (60) 66 6 2,402
In two to three years - 465 - 465 (59) - (59) 406
In three to four years - 2,241 - 2,241 (59) - (59) 2,182
In four to five years - 424 - 424 (46) - (46) 378
In more than five years - 12,478 - 12,478 (163) - (163) 12,315
345 19,214 7,239 26,798 (447) 66 (381) 26,417
Effect of interest (2) (7,956) - (7,958) 447 - 447 (7,51 1)
Effect of discounting, fair values and issue costs - 247 - 247 (449) 5 (444) (197)
31 December 2008 343 11,505 7,239 19,087 (449) 71 (378) 18,709
Bank Total Total
overdrafts Trade non-derivative derivative
and other and other financial Interest Currency financial
loans Bonds payables instruments rate swaps swaps instruments Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Within one year 4,305 619 6,968 11,892 - - - 11,892
In one to two years - 1,259 89 1,348 - - - 1,348
In two to three years - 1,679 - 1,679 - - - 1,679
In three to four years - 532 - 532 - - - 532
In four to five years - 2,255 - 2,255 - - - 2,255
In more than five years - 13,356 - 13,356 (25) - (25) 13,331
4,305 19,700 7,057 31,062 (25) - (25) 31,037
Effect of interest (25) (8,857) - (8,882) 25 - 25 (8,857)
Effect of discounting, fair values and issue costs - 33 - 33 (117) - (117) (84)
31 December 2007 4,280 10,876 7,057 22,213 (117) - (117) 22,096
Where interest payments are on a floating-rate basis it is assumed that rates will remain unchanged from the last business day of each year 
ended 31 December. For details of how liquidity risk is managed and for details of cash and cash equivalents, fixed deposits and committed 
bank facilities available to manage liquidity risk refer to Note 15.
It is not expected that the cash flows in the maturity profile could occur significantly earlier or at significantly different amounts. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
150 Financial Statements
16 Financial instruments continued
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group's interest-bearing financial instruments, as at 31 December 2009, 31 December 2008 and 31 December 
2007 is set out below. In the case of non-current financial liabilities, the classification includes the impact of interest rate swaps which convert 
the debt to floating rate.
2009 2008 2007
Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Current 1,926 1,790 136 993 - 993 4,280 - 4,280
Non-current 9,137 6,340 2,797 10,855 8,015 2,840 10,876 7,594 3,282
11,063 8,130 2,933 11,848 8,015 3,833 15,156 7,594 7,562
Financial assets
Fixed deposits 1,466 - 1,466 54 - 54 60 - 60
Cash and cash equivalents 9,918 - 9,918 4,286 - 4,286 5,867 - 5,867
 11,384 - 11,384 4,340 - 4,340 5,927 - 5,927
In addition to the financial assets above, there are $7 ,376m (2008: $7 ,070m; 2007: $6,272m) of other current and non-current asset investments 
and other financial assets on which no interest is received. 
Foreign currency risk
Translational
In 2009, the US Dollar was generally stronger than in the prior year against our six principal currency exposures: sterling (GBP), Swedish krona 
(SEK), euro (EUR), Australian dollar (AUD), Japanese yen (JPY) and Canadian dollar (CAD). The weakness of our cost currencies sterling and 
Swedish krona relative to the euro which is our main non-US dollar income currency has resulted in a small net benefit for the Group. During 
the year a series of option-based currency hedges were executed to protect the Group from adverse exchange rate movements and all 
matured during the period without being exercised. The cost of executing these hedges is recorded through profit.
Transactional
100% of the Group's major transactional currency exposures on working capital balances, which typically extend for up to three months, 
are hedged, where practicable, using forward foreign exchange contracts against individual Group companies' reporting currency. 
The table below sets out the principal foreign exchange contracts outstanding at 31 December 2009, 31 December 2008 and 31 December 
2007 along with the underlying gross exposure as defined above. 
2009
GBP SEK EUR AUD JPY CAD
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Gross exposure (124) (811) 556 75 197 43
Forward exchange contracts 124 811 (556) (75) (197) (43)
Net exposure - - - - - -
2008
Gross exposure (676) (444) 505 57 166 49
Forward exchange contracts 690 445 (512) (52) (166) (24)
Net exposure 14 1 (7) 5 - 25
2007
Gross exposure (536) (476) 627 24 168 57
Forward exchange contracts 530 494 (627) (24) (168) (57)
Net exposure (6) 18 - - - - AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
151 Financial Statements
16 Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis set out below summarises the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes in 
market rates and prices. The range of variables chosen for the sensitivity analysis reflects our view of changes which are reasonably possible 
over a one-year period. Market values are the present value of future cash flows based on market rates and prices at the valuation date. 
For long-term debt, an increase in interest rates results in a decline in the fair value of debt.
The sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point change in interest rates in all currencies from their levels at 31 December 2009, 
with all other variables held constant. Based on the composition of our long-term debt portfolio as at 31 December 2009, a 1% increase in 
interest rates would result in an additional $32m in interest expense being incurred per year. The exchange rate sensitivity analysis assumes an 
instantaneous 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates from their levels at 31 December 2009, with all other variables held constant. 
The +10% case assumes a 10% strengthening of the US dollar against all other currencies and the -10% case assumes a 10% weakening 
of the US dollar.
Each incremental 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have approximately the same effect as the initial 10% detailed 
in the table below.
31 December 2009
Interest rates Exchange rates
+1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments 602 (709) 137 (137)
Impact on profit: gain/(loss) - - (134) 134
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) - - 271 (271)
31 December 2008
Interest rates Exchange rates
+1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments 587 (706) 217 (217)
Impact on profit: gain/(loss) - - (57) 57
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) - - 274 (274)
31 December 2007
Interest rates Exchange rates
+1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments 666 (779) 165 (165)
Impact on profit: gain/(loss) - - (37) 37
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) - - 202 (202)
There has been no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the above sensitivity analysis over the three-year period.
Credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets, being cash and cash equivalents, derivative assets, other investments and other financial assets 
(consisting of trade and other receivables) represent the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
US 2,229 2,032 1,961
UK 482 459 425
Sweden 245 226 260
Euro zone countries 762 833 901
Other European countries 295 257 247
Japan 950 955 771
Other countries 819 796 761
5,782 5,558 5,326
In the US, sales to three wholesalers accounted for approximately 81% of US sales (2008: three wholesalers accounted for approximately 81%; 
2007: three wholesalers accounted for approximately 82%). AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
152 Financial Statements
16 Financial instruments continued
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Not past due 5,542 5,262 4,930
Overdue but renegotiated - 3 120
Past due 0-90 days 65 106 79
Past due 90-180 days 75 60 99
Past due > 180 days 100 127 98
5,782 5,558 5,326
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Movements in provisions for trade receivables
Balance at beginning of year 99 89 52
Income statement (credit)/charge (20) 23 34
Amounts utilised, exchange and other movements 2 (13) 3
Balance at end of year 81 99 89
The allowance for impairment has been calculated based on past experience and is in relation to specific customers. Given the profile of our 
customers, including large wholesalers and government-backed agencies, no further credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables 
not past due other than those balances for which an allowance has been made.
17 Trade and other payables
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 2,316 1,940 1,983
Value added and payroll taxes and social security 342 371 434
Rebates and chargebacks 2,618 1,963 1,514
Other payables 1,038 1,026 865
Accruals 2,373 1,878 2,172
8,687 7, 1 78 6,968
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 244 149 229
Included in other payables are amounts totalling $259m (2008: $227m; 2007: $209m) to meet insurance obligations of the Group's insurance 
subsidiaries. These amounts are net of intra-group set-off.
18 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Severance Environmental Employee benefits Legal Other provisions Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 January 2007 31 95 109 - 131 366
Charge for year 620 48 4 25 33 730
Cash paid (25) (32) (23) - (25) (105)
Exchange and other movements 17 - 10 - 2 29
At 31 December 2007 643 111 100 25 141 1,020
Charge/(credit) for year 469 37 (23) - 164 647
Cash paid (405) (39) (1) - (12) (457)
Exchange and other movements (88) 21 8 - (9) (68)
At 31 December 2008 619 130 84 25 284 1,142
Charge for year 309 6 12 636 101 1,064
Cash paid (341) (23) - (13) (34) (411)
Reversals (89) - - - (28) (117)
Exchange and other movements 13 (1) (1) - (3) 8
At 31 December 2009 511 112 95 648 320 1,686
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Due within one year 1,209 600 387
Due after more than one year 477 542 633
1,686 1,142 1,020 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
153 Financial Statements
18 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued
AstraZeneca is undergoing a global restructuring initiative which involves rationalisation of the Global Supply Chain, European Sales and 
Marketing, Information Services and Business Support infrastructure and Research and Development. Employee costs in connection with the 
initiatives are recognised in severance provisions. This is a three-year programme expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2010.
Details of the environmental and legal provisions are provided in Note 25.
Employee benefit provisions include the executive deferred bonus plan. Further details are included in Note 24.
Other provisions comprise amounts relating to specific legal and constructive obligations and disputes.
No provision has been released or applied for any purpose other than that for which it was established.
19 Capital and reserves
Cumulative translation differences included within retained earnings
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Balance at beginning of year 1,323 2,414 1,945
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation 388 (1,355) 489
Exchange adjustments on goodwill (recorded against other reserves) 13 (27) 20
Foreign exchange on borrowings (68) 291 (40)
Net exchange movement in retained earnings 333 (1,091) 469
Balance at end of year 1,656 1,323 2,414
Other reserves
The other reserves arose from the cancellation of  1,255m of share premium account by the Company in 1993 and the redenomination of 
share capital ($157m) in 1999. The reserves are available for writing off goodwill arising on consolidation and, subject to guarantees given to 
preserve creditors as at the date of the court order, are available for distribution.
Retained earnings
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off directly to reserves resulting from acquisitions, net of disposals, amounted to $667m (2008: $654m; 
2007: $681m) using year end rates of exchange. At 31 December 2009, 24,178 shares, at a cost of $1m, have been deducted from retained 
earnings (2008: nil shares, at a cost of $nil; 2007: nil shares, at a cost of $nil).
There are no significant statutory or contractual restrictions on the distribution of current profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates; 
undistributed profits of prior years are, in the main, permanently employed in the businesses of these companies. The undistributed income 
of AstraZeneca companies overseas might be liable to overseas taxes and/or UK taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were 
to be distributed as dividends (see Note 4).
20 Share capital of the Company
Authorised Allotted, called-up and fully paid
2009 2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m $m
Issued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each)  363 363 362 364
Unissued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each)  237 - - -
Redeemable Preference Shares ( 1 each -  50,000) - - - -
 600 363 362 364
The total authorised number of Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2009 was 2,400,000,000, of which 1,450,958,562 Ordinary Shares were 
in issue.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights and no dividend rights. This class of shares is capable of redemption at 
par at the option of the Company on the giving of seven days' written notice to the registered holder of the shares.
The movements in the number of Ordinary Shares during the year can be summarised as follows:
No. of shares (million)
2009 2008
At 1 January  1,447 1,457
Issues of shares  4 4
Re-purchase of shares - (14)
At 31 December 1,451 1,447 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
154 Financial Statements
20 Share capital of the Company continued
Share re-purchases
During the year, the Company did not re-purchase nor cancel any Ordinary Shares (2008: 13,597 ,940 Ordinary Shares at an average price of 2397 
pence per share).
Share schemes
A total of 3,477 ,014 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share schemes (2008: 4,078,635 Ordinary Shares). Details of 
movements in the number of Ordinary Shares under option are shown in Note 24; details of options granted to Directors are shown in the 
Directors' Remuneration Report from page 101.
Shares held by subsidiaries
No shares in the Company were held by subsidiaries in any year. 
21 Dividends to shareholders
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
Per share Per share Per share $m $m $m
Final $1.500 $1.350 $1.230 2,171 1,967 1,885
Interim $0.590 $0.550 $0.520 855 800 773
$2.090 $1.900 $1.750 3,026 2,767 2,658
The second interim dividend, to be confirmed as final, is $1.71 per share and $2,481m in total. This will be payable on 15 March 2010. 
On payment of the dividends, exchange gains of $17m (2008: gains of $28m; 2007: gains of $17m) arose. These exchange gains and losses 
are included in Note 3.
22 Acquisitions of business operations
There were no acquisitions made during either the year ended 31 December 2009, or the year ended 31 December 2008.
Details with regard to acquisitions made during the year ended 31 December 2007 are set out below: 
MedImmune
On 1 June 2007 , AstraZeneca announced the successful tender offer for all the outstanding shares of common stock of MedImmune, 
a world-leading biotechnology company with proven biologics discovery and development strength, pipeline and leading biomanufacturing 
capability. At that date, approximately 96.0% of the outstanding shares were successfully tendered; the remaining shares were acquired by 
18 June 2007. The financial results of MedImmune have been consolidated into the Group's results from 1 June 2007. 
Cash consideration of $13.9bn was paid for the outstanding shares. After taking account of the cash and investments acquired, together with 
the settlement of MedImmune's convertible debt and outstanding share options, the total cash paid to acquire MedImmune was $15.6bn.
In most business acquisitions, there is a part of the cost that is not capable of being attributed in accounting terms to identifiable assets and 
liabilities acquired and is therefore recognised as goodwill. In the case of the acquisition of MedImmune, this goodwill is underpinned by a 
number of elements, which individually cannot be quantified. Most significant amongst these is the premium attributable to a pre-existing, 
well positioned business in the innovation-intensive, high-growth biologics market with a highly skilled workforce and established reputation. 
Other important elements include buyer-specific synergies, potential additional indications for identified products and the core technological 
capabilities and knowledge base of the company.
MedImmune contributed $714m of turnover in the year of acquisition. After amortisation, net investments/interest costs (including interest costs 
of external financing of $446m) and tax, the loss attributable to MedImmune in the year of acquisition was $410m. If the acquisition had taken 
effect at the beginning of the reporting period (1 January 2007), on a pro forma basis the revenue, profit before tax and profit after tax of 
the combined Group for 2007 would have been $30,127m, $7,576m and $5,351m, respectively. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the 
combined Group in 2007 would have been $3.56 and $3.55, respectively. This pro forma information has been prepared taking into account 
amortisation, interest costs and related tax effects but does not purport to represent the results of the combined Group that actually would 
have occurred had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2007 and should not be taken to be representative of future results. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
155 Financial Statements
22 Acquisitions of business operations continued
Fair value
Book value adjustment Fair value
$m $m $m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 193 7,882 8,075
Property, plant and equipment 523 70 593
Other 550 (17) 533
1,266 7,935 9,201
Current assets 1,439 115 1,554
Current liabilities (326) 39 (287)
Additional obligations related to convertible debt and share options - (1,724) (1,724)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (1,165) - (1,165)
Other payables (73) - (73)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 314 (2,694) (2,380)
(924) (2,694) (3,618)
Total assets acquired 1,455 3,671 5,126
Goodwill 8,757
Total consideration for outstanding shares 13,883
Additional payments related to convertible debt, share options and other acquisition obligations 1,770
Total consideration 15,653
The total consideration for outstanding shares includes $29m of directly attributable costs.
The intangible assets acquired included: (a) product, marketing and distribution rights relating to currently marketed products or franchises 
(principally in respect of the Synagis and motavizumab RSV franchise, FluMist and Ethyol); (b) product marketing and distribution rights relating 
to products in development (principally motavizumab); and (c) distribution rights relating to out-licensed products (principally the HPV cervical 
cancer vaccine). The combined acquisitions fair value of $8,075m comprised $6,570m relating to the Infection Therapy Area, $1,425m relating 
to the Oncology Therapy Area and $80m relating to the Respiratory & Inflammation Therapy Area. The carrying value of these assets is 
summarised in Note 9.
Other acquisitions
Fair value
Book value adjustment Fair value
$m $m $m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets - 347 347
Property, plant and equipment 7 - 7
7 347 354
Current assets 12 - 12
Current liabilities (19) - (19)
Non-current liabilities
Other payables (9) - (9)
Deferred tax liabilities - (118) (118)
(9) (118) (127)
Total assets acquired (9) 229 220
Goodwill -
Total consideration 220
The total consideration includes $3m of directly attributable costs. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
156 Financial Statements
22 Acquisitions of business operations continued
Arrow Therapeutics Limited
On 28 February 2007, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Arrow Therapeutics Limited for cash consideration of 
$147m. Arrow Therapeutics Limited is a UK biotechnology company, focused on the discovery and development of anti-viral therapies. 
The acquisition provides a widely recognised expert group and technology platform in an area of research that complements internal 
capabilities in the Therapy Area of infection and anti-bacterials.
Arrow Therapeutics Limited had revenue of $nil and a loss of $26m for 2007 of which $nil of revenue and $17m of loss related to the period 
between acquisition and 31 December 2007.
Atlantis Components Inc.
On 10 October 2007, a Company subsidiary, Astra Tech AB, acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Atlantis Components Inc. for cash 
consideration of $71m.
Atlantis Components Inc. is a US dental business whose principal activity is the design and manufacture of bespoke dental implant abutments. 
The intangible asset acquired is the specialist CAD/CAM technology used to design and manufacture customised dental implant abutments. 
The acquisition further strengthens Astra Tech AB's product portfolio in the field of dental implants.
The revenue and loss in 2007, for both the period since acquisition and full year, are immaterial.
Cash flows
MedImmune Other Total
$m $m $m
Total consideration 15,653 220 15,873
Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired (979) (3) (982)
Net cash consideration 14,674 217 14,891
23 Post-retirement benefits
Pensions
Background
The Company and most of its subsidiaries offer retirement plans which cover the majority of employees in the Group. Many of these plans are 
 defined contribution', where the Company contribution and resulting charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees' pay. 
However, several plans, mainly in the UK, the US and Sweden, are  defined benefit', where benefits are based on employees' length of service 
and average final salary (typically averaged over one, three or five years). The major defined benefit plans, apart from the collectively bargained 
Swedish plan (which is still open to employees born before 1979), have been closed to new entrants since 2000.
The major defined benefit plans are funded through legally separate, fiduciary-administered funds. The cash funding of the plans, which may 
from time to time involve special payments, is designed, in consultation with independent qualified actuaries, to ensure that the assets 
together with future contributions should be sufficient to meet future obligations. The funding is monitored rigorously by the Company and 
appropriate fiduciaries specifically with reference to the Company's credit rating, market capitalisation and cash flows.
Post-retirement scheme deficit
The assets and obligations of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group at 31 December 2009, as calculated in accordance with 
IAS 19 are shown below. The fair values of the schemes' assets are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to 
significant change before they are realised. The present value of the schemes' obligations is derived from cash flow projections over long 
periods and is therefore inherently uncertain.
Value at 31 December 2009 Value at 31 December 2008
UK Rest of Group Total UK Rest of Group Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Scheme assets
Equities 2,309 1,241 3,550 1,461 960 2,421
Bonds 2,279 903 3,182 1,935 772 2,707
Others 265 258 523 439 281 720
Total fair value of assets 4,853 2,402 7,255 3,835 2,013 5,848
Present value of scheme obligations (7,055) (3,591) (10,646) (5,029) (3,591) (8,620)
Past service cost not yet recognised - 37 37 - 40 40
Deficit in the scheme as recognised 
in the Statement of Financial Position (2,202) (1,152) (3,354) (1,194) (1,538) (2,732) AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
157 Financial Statements
23 Post-retirement benefits continued
Financing Principles
96.9% of the Group's defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2009 are in schemes within the UK, the US, Sweden or Germany. In these 
countries the pension obligations are funded with reference to the following financing principles:
The Group has a fundamental belief in funding the benefits it promises to employees. >
The Group considers its pension arrangements in the context of its broader capital structure. In general it does not believe in committing  >
excessive capital for funding whilst it has better uses of capital within the business nor does it wish to generate surpluses.
The pension funds are not part of the Group's core business. Pension funds may take rewarded risks with the investments underlying the  >
funding, subject to adequate controls and the expected rewards outweighing the risks.
The Group recognises that deciding to hold certain investments may cause volatility in the funding position. The Group would not wish to  >
amend its contribution level for relatively small deviations from its preferred funding level, because it is expected that there will be 
short-term volatility, but it is prepared to react appropriately to more significant deviations. 
In the event that local regulations require an additional level of financing, the Group would consider the use of alternative methods of providing  >
this that do not require immediate cash funding but help mitigate exposure of the pension arrangement to the credit risk of the Group.
These principles are appropriate to AstraZeneca's business at the present date; should circumstances change they may require review.
The Company has developed a funding framework to implement these principles. This determines the cash contributions payable to the pension 
funds, but does not affect the IAS 19 liabilities. To reduce the risk of committing excess capital to pension funds, liabilities are based on the 
expected return on the actual pension assets, rather than a corporate bond yield. At present this puts a different value on the liabilities than 
IAS 19.
UK
With regard to the Group's UK defined benefit fund, the above principles are modified in light of the UK regulatory requirements and resulting 
discussions with the Pension Fund Trustee. The most recent full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 March 2008. 
Under the agreed funding principles for the UK, cash contributions will be paid to the fund to target a level of assets in excess of the current 
expected cost of providing benefits. In addition, the Company will make contributions to an escrow account which will be held outside of the 
pension fund. The escrow account assets will be payable to the fund in agreed circumstances, for example, in the event of the Company and 
Trustee agreeing a change to the current long term investment strategy. 
The market value of the fund's assets at the valuation date was  2,994m ($5,951m equivalent), representing 87% of the fund's actuarially 
assessed liabilities as valued in accordance with the fund's technical provisions. The escrow fund held an additional  33m at the valuation 
date. During 2009, it was agreed to fund the shortfall by making a transfer of current escrow assets to the fund and by establishing a new 
funding schedule, making regular payments over seven years of about  42m per annum to the escrow and  132m per annum to the fund. 
This includes the contributions required to meet the benefits accruing of about  60m per annum. In addition,  90m per annum is being paid 
to the escrow for two years until the next valuation to cover the losses on the fund's investments since the valuation date as a result of the 
market downturn. 
Under the agreed funding principles, the key assumptions as at 31 March 2008 for contributions to both the fund and escrow account are as 
follows: long-term UK price inflation set at 3.5% pa, salary increases at 3.5% pa, pension increases at 3.5% pa and investment returns at 
7.1% pa (pre-retirement) and 5.96% pa (post-retirement).
On 28 January 2010, AstraZeneca announced that from 1 February 2010 the Company would commence consultation with its UK employees' 
representatives on proposals regarding changes affecting the Group's UK pension scheme. The Company does not propose to close the 
defined benefit fund to existing members, but proposes to freeze pensionable pay at its 30 June 2010 level. Employees who choose to leave 
the defined benefit fund will be offered funding which they may contribute to a new Group Self Invested Personal Pension Plan. Should the 
proposals proceed, implementation is planned from 1 July 2010, following which a review of the funding implications will be completed.
Rest of Group
The IAS 19 positions as at 31 December 2009 are shown below for each of the other countries with significant defined benefit plans. These 
plans account for 91% of the Group's defined benefit obligations outside of the UK. In principle, these plans are funded in line with the financing 
principles and contributions paid as prescribed by the funding framework.
The US defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2009, when plan obligations were $1,834m and plan assets  >
were $1,412m. This includes obligations in respect of the non-qualified plan which is largely unfunded.
The Swedish defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2009, when plan obligations were estimated to amount  >
to $1,191m and plan assets were $687m.
The German defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2009, when plan obligations amounted to $237m and  >
plan assets were $27m. 
On current bases, it is expected that contributions (excluding those in respect of past service cost) during the year ended 31 December 2010 
to the four main countries will be $311m. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
158 Financial Statements
23 Post-retirement benefits continued
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions
In the US, and to a lesser extent in certain other countries, AstraZeneca's employment practices include the provision of healthcare and life 
assurance benefits for retired employees. As at 31 December 2009, some 3,944 retired employees and covered dependants currently benefit 
from these provisions and some 12,658 current employees will be eligible on their retirement. AstraZeneca accrues for the present value of 
such retiree obligations over the working life of the employee. In practice these benefits will be funded with reference to the Financing Principles.
The cost of post-retirement benefits other than pensions for the Group in 2009 was $19m (2008: $21m; 2007: $26m). Plan assets were $285m 
and plan obligations were $418m at 31 December 2009. These benefit plans have been included in the disclosure of post-retirement benefits 
under IAS 19.
Financial assumptions
Qualified independent actuaries have updated the actuarial valuations under IAS 19 of the major defined benefit schemes operated by the 
Group to 31 December 2009. The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due 
to the long-term nature of the scheme, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. These assumptions were as follows:
2009 2008
UK Rest of Group UK Rest of Group
Inflation assumption 3.5% 2.3% 2.8% 2.2%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.5% 3.4% 3.8% 3.4%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.5% 0.9% 2.8% 0.8%
Discount rate 5.5% 5.0% 6.2% 4.6%
Long-term rate of return expected at 31 December
Equities 8.0% 8.1% 7.9% 7.7%
Bonds 5.5% 5.2% 5.2% 4.9%
Others 6.5% 4.8% 6.0% 3.5%
Rate of increase in medical costs 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0%
The expected return on assets is determined with reference to the expected long-term level of dividends, interest and other returns derived 
from the plan assets, together with realised and unrealised gains or losses on the plan assets, less any costs of administering the plan, less 
any tax payable by the plan. The expected returns are based on long-term market expectations and analysed on a regular basis to ensure that 
any sustained movements in underlying markets are reflected.
Demographic assumptions
The mortality assumptions are based on country-specific mortality tables. These are compared to actual AstraZeneca experience and 
adjusted where sufficient data is available. Additional allowance for future improvements in life expectancy is included for all major schemes 
where there is credible data to support this continuing trend.
The table below illustrates life expectancy assumptions at age 65 for male members retiring in 2009 and members expected to retire in 2029.
Life expectancy assumption for a male member retiring at age 65
Country 2009 2029 2008 2028
UK 23.8 25.8 23.8 25.8
US 19.6 21.1 19.6 21.1
Sweden 20.4 22.4 20.4 22.4
Germany 1 7.7 20.5 1 7.7 20.5
Sensitivity of medical cost assumptions
Effect of change in medical cost assumption increase/(decrease)
2009 2008
+1% -1% +1% -1%
Current service and interest cost of net periodic post-employment medical costs ($m) 4 (3) 4 (3)
Accumulated post-employment benefit obligation for medical costs ($m) 32 (28) 28 (28) AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
159 Financial Statements
23 Post-retirement benefits continued
Actuarial gains and losses
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
UK
Present value of obligations ($m) (7,055) (5,029) (7,644) (7,352) (6,309)
Fair value of plan assets ($m) 4,853 3,835 6,310 6,078 5,314
Deficit in the scheme ($m) (2,202) (1 ,194) (1,334) (1,274) (995)
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount ($m) 293 (1 ,185) (185) (259) 636
Percentage of scheme assets 6.0% 30.9% 2.9% 4.3% 12.0%
Scheme obligations
Amount ($m) (1,218) 972 114 71 (539)
Percentage of scheme obligations 17.3% 19.3% 1.5% 1.0% 8.5%
Rest of Group
Present value of obligations ($m) (3,591) (3,591) (3,348) (3,109) (2,995)
Fair value of plan assets ($m) 2,402 2,013 2,644 2,493 2,284
Deficit in the scheme ($m) (1,189) (1,578) (704) (616) (711)
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount ($m) 180 (700) (24) 55 63
Percentage of scheme assets 7.5% 34.8% 0.9% 2.2% 2.8%
Scheme obligations
Amount ($m) 176 (319) (18) 25 (195)
Percentage of scheme obligations 4.9% 8.9% 0.5% 0.8% 6.5%
Total
Present value of obligations ($m) (10,646) (8,620) (10,992) (10,461) (9,304)
Fair value of plan assets ($m) 7,255 5,848 8,954 8,571 7,598
Deficit in the scheme ($m) (3,391) (2,772) (2,038) (1,890) (1,706)
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount ($m) 473 (1,885) (209) (204) 699
Percentage of scheme assets 6.5% 32.2% 2.3% 2.4% 9.2%
Scheme obligations
Amount ($m) (1,042) 653 96 96 (734)
Percentage of scheme obligations 9.8% 7 .6% 0.9% 0.9% 7.9%
The obligation arises from the following plans:
2009 2008
UK Rest of Group UK Rest of Group
$m $m $m $m
Funded (7,026) (3,159) (5,004) (3,025)
Unfunded (29) (432) (25) (566)
Total (7,055) (3,591) (5,029) (3,591) AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
160 Financial Statements
23 Post-retirement benefits continued
Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures
The amounts that have been charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, in respect of defined benefit schemes for 
the year ended 31 December 2009 are set out below:
2009 2008
UK Rest of Group Total UK Rest of Group Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Operating profit
Current service cost (96) (126) (222) (146) (107) (253)
Past service cost (53) (24) (77) (86) (28) (11 4)
Settlements and curtailments - -  - 19 28 47
Total charge to operating profit (149) (150) (299) (213) (107) (320)
Finance expense
Expected return on post-retirement scheme assets 261 127 388 398 187 585
Interest on post-retirement scheme obligations (330) (163) (493) (416) (172) (588)
Net return (69) (36) (105) (18) 15 (3)
Charge before taxation (218) (186) (404) (231) (92) (323)
Other comprehensive income
Difference between the actual return and the expected 
return on the post-retirement schemes' assets 293 180 473 (1,185) (700) (1,885)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on  
the post-retirement schemes' obligations 105 (67) 38 78 4 82
Changes in assumptions underlying the present 
value of the post-retirement schemes' obligations (1,323) 243 (1,080) 894 (323) 571
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised (925) 356 (569) (213) (1,019) (1,232)
Movement in post-retirement scheme obligations
2009 2008
UK Rest of Group Total UK Rest of Group Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Present value of obligation in schemes at beginning of year (5,029) (3,591) (8,620) (7,644) (3,348) (10,992)
Current service cost (96) (126) (222) (146) (107) (253)
Past service cost (53) (21) (74) (86) (28) (11 4)
Participant contributions (31) (3) (34) (43) (3) (46)
Benefits paid 295 200 495 375 112 487
Other finance expense (330) (163) (493) (416) (172) (588)
Expenses 6 - 6 8 - 8
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1,218) 176 (1,042) 972 (319) 653
Settlements and curtailments - - - 19 28 47
Exchange (599) (63) (662) 1,932 246 2,1 78
Present value of obligations in schemes at end of year (7,055) (3,591) (10,646) (5,029) (3,591) (8,620)
Fair value of scheme assets
2009 2008
UK Rest of Group Total UK Rest of Group Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
At beginning of year 3,835 2,013 5,848 6,310 2,644 8,954
Expected return on plan assets 261 127 388 398 187 585
Expenses (6) - (6) (8) - (8)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 293 180 473 (1,185) (700) (1,885)
Exchange 430 17 447 (1,583) (161) (1 ,744)
Employer contributions 304 262 566 235 152 387
Participant contributions 31 3 34 43 3 46
Benefits paid (295) (200) (495) (375) (112) (487)
At end of year 4,853 2,402 7,255 3,835 2,013 5,848
The actual return on the plan assets was a gain of $861m (2008: loss of $1,300m; 2007: gain of $364m).
Included in total assets and obligations for the UK is $363m in respect of members' defined contribution sections of the scheme. Costs in respect 
of the defined contribution sections of the scheme during the year were $234m (2008: $226m; 2007: $191m). AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
161 Financial Statements
23 Post-retirement benefits continued
Transactions with pension schemes
During the year, the Group made loans to the UK and Swedish pension schemes to enable these schemes to manage their short-term 
liquidity requirements. The maximum balance outstanding in the year was $9m and the amount outstanding at 31 December 2009 was $5m.
Reserves
Included within the retained earnings reserve is the actuarial reserve. Movements on this reserve are as follows:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
At 1 January (1,371) (479) (401)
Actuarial losses (569) (1,232) (113)
Deferred tax 140 340 35
At 31 December (1,800) (1,371) (479)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses before deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income is $2,436m (2008: $1,867m; 
2007: $635m).
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees
Employee costs
The average number of people, to the nearest hundred, employed by the Group is set out in the table below. In accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, this includes part-time employees.
Employees 2009 2008 2007
UK 10,600 11,000 11,800
Continental Europe 21,200 23,100 25,600
The Americas 19,800 20,900 20,200
Asia, Africa & Australasia 12,300 11,100 10,300
Continuing operations 63,900 66,100 67,900
Geographical distribution described in the table above is by location of legal entity employing staff. Certain staff will spend some or all of their 
activity in a different location.
The number of people employed by the Group at the end of 2009 was 62,700 (2008: 65,000; 2007: 67,400).
The costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Salaries 4,713 5,080 5,217
Social security costs 644 743 858
Pension costs 516 497 449
Other employment costs 560 596 584
 6,433 6,916 7, 108
Severance costs of $285m are not included above (2008: $546m; 2007: $724m).
The Directors believe that, together with the basic salary system, the Group's employee incentive schemes provide competitive and market-
related packages to motivate employees. They should also align the interests of employees with those of shareholders, as a whole, through 
long-term share ownership in the Company. The Group's current UK, Swedish and US schemes are described below; other arrangements 
apply elsewhere.
Bonus plans
The AstraZeneca UK Performance Bonus Plan
Employees of participating AstraZeneca UK companies are invited to participate in this bonus plan, which rewards strong individual performance. 
Bonuses are paid partly in the form of Ordinary Shares in the Company (under the Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs (HMRC)-approved 
AstraZeneca All-Employee Share Plan and up to a maximum annual value of  3,000) and partly in cash. A tax-efficient share retention scheme, 
under which employees leave their bonus shares in trust for three to five years, forms part of the All-Employee Share Plan. The Company also 
offers UK employees the opportunity to buy Partnership Shares (Ordinary Shares) under the All-Employee Share Plan. Employees may invest 
up to  1,500 over a 12-month accumulation period and purchase Partnership Shares in the Company with the total proceeds at the end of the 
period. The purchase price for the shares is the lower of the price at the beginning or the end of the 12-month period. A tax-efficient share 
retention scheme is also available in respect of Partnership Shares. At the Company's AGM in 2002, shareholders approved the issue of new 
shares for the purposes of the All-Employee Share Plan. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
162 Financial Statements
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
The AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme
This scheme is a performance bonus scheme for Directors and senior employees who do not participate in the AstraZeneca UK Performance 
Bonus Plan. Annual bonuses are paid in cash and reflect both corporate and individual performance measures. The Remuneration Committee 
has discretion to reduce or withhold bonuses if business performance falls sufficiently short of expectations in any year such as to make the 
payment of bonuses inappropriate.
The AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan
This plan was introduced in 2006 and is used to defer a portion of the bonus earned under the AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme 
into Ordinary Shares in the Company for a period of three years. The plan currently operates only in respect of Executive Directors and 
members of the Senior Executive Team (SET). Awards of shares under this plan are typically made in February each year, the first award 
having been made in February 2006.
Sweden
In Sweden an all-employee performance bonus plan is in operation, which rewards strong individual performance. Bonuses are paid 50% 
into a fund investing in AstraZeneca equities and 50% in cash. The AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, the AstraZeneca Share 
Option Plan and the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan all operate in respect of relevant AstraZeneca employees in Sweden.
US
In the US, there are two all-employee short-term or annual performance bonus plans in operation to differentiate and reward strong individual 
performance. Annual bonuses are paid in cash. There are also two senior staff long-term incentive schemes, under which approximately 
450 participants may be eligible for awards granted as either AstraZeneca ADSs or stock appreciation rights related to AstraZeneca ADSs. 
AstraZeneca ADSs necessary to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market or funded via a share trust. The AstraZeneca Share Option 
Plan, the AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Executive Performance Share Plan, the AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit 
Award Plan, and the MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan operate in respect of relevant employees in the US.
Share plans 
The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
This plan was approved by shareholders in 2005 for a period of 10 years. Generally, awards can be granted at any time, but not during a 
close period of the Company. The first grant of awards was made in June 2005. The main grant of awards in 2009 under the plan was in 
March, at the same time as options were granted under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan, with a further smaller grant in August. Awards 
granted under the plan vest after three years subject to a performance condition. For awards in 2009 to Executive Directors and members 
of the Senior Executive Team (SET) the performance condition relates to the performance of the Company's total shareholder return (TSR) 
compared with that of a selected peer group of other pharmaceutical companies. 
For awards to all other participants in 2009, except employees of MedImmune, the performance condition is equally weighted between the 
TSR condition described above and a three-year earnings per share (EPS) target. A separate performance condition applies to employees 
of MedImmune linked to the achievement of MedImmune business targets. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing 
any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance 
targets and which employees should be invited to participate. A fuller description of this plan can be found on page 108 in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report.
The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Executive Performance Share Plan
This plan was introduced in 2007 and is used to grant awards of performance shares to selected US employees under broadly the same terms 
as awards are made under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. The only grant of awards in 2009 under the plan was in March. Awards 
granted under the plan vest after three years subject to a performance condition. For awards in 2009 to all participants, except employees 
of MedImmune, the performance condition is equally weighted between the performance of the Company's total shareholder return (TSR) 
compared with that of a selected peer group of other pharmaceutical companies and a three-year earnings per share (EPS) target. A separate 
performance condition applies to employees of MedImmune linked to the achievement of MedImmune business targets. The Remuneration 
Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated, 
including agreeing performance targets and which employees should be invited to participate.
The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
This plan was introduced in 2007 and provides for the grant of restricted stock unit (RSU) awards to selected employees (predominantly in the 
US). The RSU Plan is used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to provide a mix of RSUs and share options. The only grant 
of awards in 2009 under the plan was in March. Awards typically vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and are contingent on 
continued employment with the Company. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for 
setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated.
The MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
This plan was introduced in 2008 and provides for the grant of RSU awards to selected employees of MedImmune. This plan is used in 
conjunction with the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to provide a mix of RSUs and share options. The only grant of awards in 2009 under the 
plan was in March. Awards typically vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and are contingent on continued employment with the 
Company. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in 
which the plan should be operated. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
163 Financial Statements
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan
This plan was introduced in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards to key employees, excluding Executive Directors. 
Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates. The plan has been used twice in 2009 to make awards to twelve employees. 
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the 
plan should be operated.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
Shares WAFV
1
'000 pence
Shares awarded in June 2005 312 1121
Shares awarded in March 2006 280 1486
Shares awarded in May 2006 19 1424
Shares awarded in March 2007 1,611 1372
Shares awarded in August 2007 68 1217
Shares awarded in November 2007 16 1105
Shares awarded in March 2008 1,338 941
Shares awarded in August 2008 14 1326
Shares awarded in March 2009 1,190 1140
Shares awarded in August 2009 8 1424
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
Units WAFV
1
'000 $
Units awarded in March 2007 755 26.90
Units awarded in November 2007 270 21.56
Units awarded in March 2008 1,313 18.88
Units awarded in March 2009 1,283 16.70
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Executive Performance Share Plan
Shares WAFV
1
'000 $
Shares awarded in March 2007 38 25.86
Shares awarded in March 2008 2,094 18.88
Shares awarded in August 2008 20 24.46
Shares awarded in March 2009 2,288 16.70
Shares awarded in August 2009 6 23.18
MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
Units WAFV
1
'000 $
Units awarded in March 2008 130 18.88
Units awarded in March 2009 177 16.70
AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan
Shares WAFV
1
'000 pence
Shares awarded in March 2008 51 941
Shares awarded in May 2008 35 2210
Units WAFV
1
'000 $
Units awarded in August 2009 9 23.22
Units awarded in September 2009 22 22.31
1 
Weighted average fair value.
The fair values were determined using a modified version of the binomial model. This method incorporated expected dividends but no other 
features into the measurements of fair value.
The charge for share-based payments in respect of the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan, the US incentive share schemes and restricted 
stock unit award plan is $81m (2008: $53m; 2007: $31m). The plans are equity-settled.
Share option plans
At 31 December 2009, there were options outstanding under the Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, the AstraZeneca Savings-
Related Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
164 Financial Statements
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
(1) Summary of the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan
This is a share option plan for employees of participating AstraZeneca Group companies which was approved by shareholders at the Company's 
AGM in 2000. The first grant of options occurred in August 2000. The main grant of options in 2009 under the plan was in March, with a 
further smaller grant in August. The Remuneration Committee sets the policy for the Company's operation of the plan and, in accordance 
with the rules of the plan, conducted a review of the plan in 2004.
Eligibility
Any AstraZeneca employee may be recommended from time to time for the grant of an option. The Remuneration Committee sets the policy 
for the Company's operation of the plan including as regards which employees will be eligible to participate.
Grant of options
Options may be granted at any time other than during a close period. The grant of options is supervised by the Remuneration Committee, which 
is comprised wholly of Non-Executive Directors. No payment is required for the grant of an option. Options are not transferable. Options may 
be granted over AstraZeneca Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
Acquisition price
The price per Ordinary Share payable upon the exercise of an option will not be less than an amount equal to the average of the middle-market 
closing price for an Ordinary Share or ADS of the Company on the London or New York Stock Exchange on the three consecutive dealing 
days immediately before the date of grant (or as otherwise agreed with HM Revenue & Customs). Where the option is an option to subscribe, 
the price payable upon exercise cannot be less than the nominal value of an Ordinary Share of the Company.
Exercise of options
An option will normally be exercisable between three and 10 years following its grant provided any relevant performance condition has been 
satisfied. Options may be satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares or by existing Ordinary Shares purchased in the market. The Remuneration 
Committee sets the policy for the Company's operation of the plan including as regards whether any performance target(s) will apply to the 
grant and/or exercise of each eligible employee's option. Options normally lapse on cessation of employment. Exercise is, however, permitted 
for a limited period following cessation of employment either for reasons of injury or disability, redundancy or retirement, or at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee, and on an amalgamation, take-over or winding-up of the Company.
(2) Summary of the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE Scheme)
The AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan was approved by shareholders in 2003 for a period of 10 years. The first grant of options 
under this plan was made in September 2003. 
Eligibility
UK-resident employees of participating AstraZeneca companies are automatically eligible to participate.
Grant of options
Invitations to apply for options may be issued within six weeks after the announcement by the Company of its results for any period and at other 
times in circumstances considered to be exceptional by the Directors. No invitations may be issued later than 10 years after the approval of 
the scheme by shareholders. Options may only be granted to employees who enter into HM Revenue & Customs-approved savings contracts 
with the savings body nominated by the Company, under which monthly savings of a fixed amount (currently not less than  5 nor more than 
 250) are made over a period of three or five years. The number of Ordinary Shares over which an option is granted will be such that the total 
amount payable on its exercise will be the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract. No payment will be required for the grant of 
an option. Options are not transferable.
Individual participation
Monthly savings by an employee under all savings contracts linked to options granted under any Save As You Earn scheme may not exceed 
 250 or such lower amounts as may be determined by the Directors.
Acquisition price
The price per Ordinary Share payable upon the exercise of an option will not normally be less than the higher of:
90% of the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share on the London Stock Exchange on three (a) 
consecutive dealing days shortly before the date on which invitations to apply for options are issued (provided that no such day may fall 
before the Company last announced its results for any period) or such other dealing day or days falling within the six-week period for the 
issue of invitations, as the Directors may decide; and
the nominal value of an Ordinary Share (unless the option is expressed to relate only to existing Ordinary Shares). (b) 
Exercise of options
An option will normally be exercisable only for six months commencing on the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the related 
savings contract. Options are satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares. Options normally lapse on cessation of employment. Exercise is, 
however, permitted for a limited period (irrespective of the period during which the option has been held) following cessation of employment 
in certain compassionate circumstances and/or where an option has been held for more than three years (except on dismissal for misconduct) 
and/or on an amalgamation, take-over or winding-up of the Company. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
165 Financial Statements
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
(3) Summary of the Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme (1994 Scheme)
The Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme was introduced in 1994. The last date for the grant of options was 16 March 2000 and 
the scheme has been replaced by the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan. Options granted under the 1994 Scheme are normally exercisable 
between three and 10 years following grant, provided the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Options are satisfied by the issue 
of new Ordinary Shares. The performance condition applicable to the 1994 Scheme was that earnings per share must have grown by at least 
the increase in the UK Retail Price Index over three years plus 3% per annum. Satisfaction of this condition was tested annually by reference 
to the audited financial statements. All options granted under the 1994 Scheme have become exercisable, the performance conditions having 
been satisfied.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan 1994 Scheme SAYE Schemes
Options WAEP
1
Options WAEP
1
Options WAEP
1
'000 pence '000 pence '000 pence
Movements during 2007
Options granted 7,312 2737 - - 1,074 2164
Options exercised (2,770) 2648 (321) 2426 (1,327) 1785
Options forfeited (1,706) 2745 (95) 2603 (238) 2528
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 682 616
At 31 December 2007
Options outstanding 42,560 2451 1,490 2364 2,720 2226
Movements during 2008
Options granted 14,858 1887 - - 483 2398
Options exercised (2,577) 2204 (99) 2620 (675) 2062
Options forfeited (2,273) 2622 (106) 2594 (388) 2291
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 404 499
At 31 December 2008
Options outstanding 52,568 2978 1,285 2934 2,140 2304
Movements during 2009
Options granted 15,246 2281 - - 351 2563
Options exercised (2,275) 2213 (317) 2670 (286) 2258
Options forfeited (3,141) 2604 (51) 2688 (169) 2340
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 423 425
At 31 December 2009
Options outstanding 62,398 2601 917 2734 2,036 2349
Range of exercise prices 1882 to
3934 2714
2164 to
3001
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2,240 days 75 days 1,086 days
Options exercisable 29,376 2737 917 2714 105 2658
1 
Weighted average exercise price.
The fair value of options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following table gives the 
assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown. Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into the model.
2009 2008 2007
Average share price (pence) 2651 2295 2599
Weighted average exercise price (pence)
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan 2281 1887 2737
SAYE schemes 2563 2398 2164
Expected volatility (%) 25.0 25.0 25.0
Dividend yield (%) 4.0 3.4 2.6
Risk-free interest rate (%) 3.7 4.3 4.8
Expected lives: AstraZeneca Share Option Plan (years) 6.0 6.0 6.0
Expected lives: SAYE schemes (years) 4.2 4.0 4.3
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options) adjusted 
for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
The charge for share-based payments in respect of share options is $105m (2008: $125m; 2007: $124m) which is comprised entirely of 
equity-settled transactions. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
166 Financial Statements
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Commitments
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 739 332 571
Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with contingent consideration, the amounts 
of which are variable depending upon particular  milestone' achievements. Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give 
rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sale levels achieved. AstraZeneca generally has the right to terminate these agreements at 
no cost. Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to 
result in any material financial loss.
Arrangements with Merck
Introduction
In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co., Inc. (now Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of the new Merck & Co., Inc. 
that resulted from the merger with Schering-Plough) (Merck) for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in 
the US. In 1998, this joint venture was restructured (Restructuring). Under the agreements relating to the Restructuring (Agreements), a US 
limited partnership (Partnership) was formed, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, and AstraZeneca 
obtained control of the joint venture's business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates. These rights 
provide Merck with safeguards over the activities of the Partnership and place limitations on AstraZeneca's commercial freedom to operate. 
The Agreements provided for:
A payment to Merck in the event of a business combination between Astra and a third party in order for Merck to relinquish certain claims  >
to that third party's products.
Annual contingent payments. >
Termination arrangements which cause Merck to relinquish its interests in AstraZeneca's products and activities in stages, some of which  >
are mandatory and others optional. 
These elements are discussed in further detail below, together with a summary of their accounting treatments. 
Payment in the event of a business combination
On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time lump sum payment of $809m was triggered. As a result of this payment, Merck relinquished 
any claims it may have had to Zeneca products.
This payment was expensed at the point of merger since it caused no incremental benefits over the prior years' aggregate Astra and Zeneca 
performance to accrue to the merged AstraZeneca entity.
Annual contingent payments
AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US (the  contingent payments' on the  agreement 
products'). As a result of the merger of Astra and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments (excluding those in respect of Prilosec and 
Nexium) could not be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m. AstraZeneca's payments 
exceeded the minimum level in all years.
AstraZeneca will continue to make contingent payments to Merck until at least 2012. Contingent payments (excluding those in respect of 
Prilosec and Nexium will cease in 2010 if AstraZeneca exercises the First Option (as discussed under First Option below); contingent payments 
in respect of Prilosec and Nexium will cease in 2012 if AstraZeneca exercises the Second Option at that time (as discussed under Second 
Option below).
The annual contingent payments on agreement products are expensed as incurred.
Termination arrangements
The Agreements provided for arrangements and payments under which, subject to the exercise of certain options, the rights and interests in 
AstraZeneca's activities and products held by Merck immediately prior to the merger would be terminated, including details of: 
the Advance Payment; >
the Partial Retirement; >
the True-Up; >
the Loan Note Receivable; >
the First Option; >
the Second Option. >
Advance Payment 
The merger between Astra and Zeneca in 1999 triggered the first step in the termination arrangements. Merck relinquished all rights, including 
contingent payments on future sales, to potential Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger. As a result, 
AstraZeneca now has rights to such products and is relieved of potential obligations to Merck and restrictions in respect of those products 
(including annual contingent payments), affording AstraZeneca substantial freedom to exploit the products as it sees fit.  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
167 Financial Statements
At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment was paid. It was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to 
the date of merger at a rate of 13% per annum and amounted to $967m. It was subject to a true-up in 2008 (as discussed under True-Up below).
Partial Retirement
In March 2008, there was a partial retirement of Merck's limited partnership interest by payment to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple 
of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m. The payment was $4,271m. The amount 
payable under the Partial Retirement was estimated to be $4.3bn in the 2007 Financial Statements. 
Upon the Partial Retirement, Merck's rights in respect of certain of the agreement products ended. The products covered by the Partial 
Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort. 
True-Up
In 2008, in accordance with the Agreements, there was a True-Up of the Advance Payment. The True-Up amount was based on a multiple of 
the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium 
(subject to a minimum of $6.6bn), plus other defined amounts (totalling $912m). In accordance with the Agreements, the calculated amount 
was then reduced by the Appraised Value (as discussed under First Option  below), the Partial Retirement and the Advance Payment (at its 
undiscounted amount of $2.8bn). This True-Up amount was settled in an amount equal to $241m owed by Merck to AstraZeneca. The amount 
payable under the True-Up was estimated to be $0.2bn in the 2007 Financial Statements, payable by Merck to AstraZeneca. 
Loan Note Receivable
Included in the assets and liabilities covered by the Restructuring was a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of 
$1.38bn. In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Retirement and the True-Up, Merck settled the loan note receivable by 
paying AstraZeneca $1.38bn.
If Merck had exercised the First Option in 2008, the net minimum payment that would have been made to Merck would have been $3.3bn, being 
the minimum combined payments of $4.7bn specified in the Agreements on the Partial Retirement, the True-Up and First Option, less the 
repayment of the loan note of $1.38bn. In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the determination of the fair 
values of the assets and liabilities to be acquired. At that time, the loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and on the balance 
sheet, because it was estimated that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value of the rights to be acquired under the 
Partial Retirement, True-Up and First Option. 
First Option
In accordance with the Agreements, in 2008 a calculation was made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent 
payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and Nexium. The Appraised Value 
was calculated in 2008 as $647m. 
Payment of the Appraised Value to Merck in March 2008 would have taken place only if Merck had exercised the First Option in 2008. Merck 
did not exercise this option. AstraZeneca may exercise the First Option in the first two months of 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised 
Value. If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option, it expects to consummate this option in April 2010.
Upon consummation of the First Option, Merck will relinquish its rights over the agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other 
than Nexium and Prilosec and the right to receive contingent payments in respect of felodipine AG (Merck's continuing contingent payment 
interest in respect of the authorised generic version of felodipine is the result of Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. becoming the exclusive US 
distributor of the authorised generic version of felodipine, which arrangement is expected to end in June 2011). Products covered by the First 
Option include Entocort, Atacand, Plendil and certain compounds still in development including Brilinta, AZD3355, AZD6765 and AZD2327. 
If AstraZeneca does not exercise the First Option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue 
(as will AstraZeneca's other obligations and restrictions in respect of these products) and the Appraised Value will not be paid. 
Second Option
Provided that the First Option is exercised, AstraZeneca may exercise a Second Option to repurchase Merck's interests in Prilosec and Nexium 
in the US. This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca in 2012, or in 2017 , or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum 
amount. AstraZeneca's consummation of the Second Option will end the contingent payments in respect of Prilosec and Nexium and will 
effectively end AstraZeneca's relationship with, and obligations to, Merck (other than some residual manufacturing arrangements). The exercise 
price for the Second Option is the net present value of the future annual contingent payments on Prilosec and Nexium as determined at the 
time of exercise. If the Second Option is consummated, Merck will then have relinquished all its interests in the Partnership and the agreement 
products, including rights to contingent payments. The exercise price of the Second Option cannot be determined at this time.
Accounting treatment of termination arrangements
AstraZeneca considers that the termination arrangements described above represent the acquisition, in stages, of Merck's interests in the 
Partnership and agreement products (including Merck's rights to contingent payments) and depend, in part, on the exercise of the First and 
Second Options. The effects will only be reflected in the financial statements as these stages are reached. If and when all such payments are 
made, AstraZeneca will have unencumbered discretion in its operations in the US market.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
168 Financial Statements
AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that accrue under all of the termination arrangements arise:
Currently, from the substantial freedom over products acquired or discovered post-merger. >
On occurrence of each stage of such arrangements, from enhanced contributions from, and substantial freedom over, those products  >
that have already been launched (for example, Pulmicort, Symbicort, Rhinocort and Atacand), and those that are in development.
Economic benefits include relief from contingent payments, anticipated cost savings from cessation of manufacturing arrangements and  >
other cost efficiencies, together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate.
The Advance Payment has been accounted for as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years. This approach reflects the fact 
that, under the Agreements, AstraZeneca has acquired rights relieving it of potential obligations and restrictions in respect of Astra products 
with no existing or pending patents at the time of merger. Although these rights apply in perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 years has 
been chosen to reflect the typical timescale of development and marketing of a product.
The net payment made in 2008, consisting of the Partial Retirement of $4.271bn less the True-Up of $241m and loan note receivable of $1.38bn, 
in total $2.6bn, has been capitalised as intangible assets. 
Part of the net payment made in 2008 resulted in AstraZeneca acquiring Merck's interests in certain AstraZeneca products, including Pulmicort, 
Rhinocort, Symbicort and Toprol-XL. Consequently AstraZeneca no longer has to make contingent payments on these products to Merck and 
has obtained the ability to fully exploit these products and to fully exploit other opportunities in the Respiratory therapy area that AstraZeneca 
was previously prevented from doing by Merck's interests in these products. Intangible assets aggregating $994m have been recognised in 
respect of these acquired product rights and these are being amortised over various periods, giving rise to an annual expense of approximately 
$60m going forward.
The balance of the net payment made in 2008 represents a payment on account for the product rights that will be acquired in the event that the 
First and Second Options are exercised by AstraZeneca. Intangible assets aggregating $1.656bn were recognised in 2008. This balance will 
not be subject to amortisation until each of the options is exercised and the related product rights are acquired. If the First Option is not exercised, 
all the payments on account will be expensed immediately. If after the First Option is exercised but it becomes probable that the Second Option 
will not be exercised, the payments on account for the product rights to be acquired under the Second Option will be expensed immediately.
Environmental costs and liabilities 
The Group's expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for 
implementing internal systems and programmes and meeting legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying out the Group's research, manufacturing and commercial operations and 
are not separated from overall operating and development costs. There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements 
resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2007, 2008 or 2009.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in investigating and 
cleaning up land and groundwater contamination. In particular, AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, 
leased and third party sites.
In the US, Zeneca Inc., and/or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties (PRPs) or defendants at approximately 19 
sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or 
common law environmental liability allocation schemes (together, US Environmental Consequences). Similarly, Stauffer Management Company LLC 
(SMC), which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and/or its 
indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 28 sites where SMC is likely to incur US Environmental Consequences. 
Outside the US, AstraZeneca has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 22 sites. These environmental liabilities arise from 
legacy operations that are not part of the Group's current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is 
either completed or nearing completion. 
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance 
activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Group's R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where a present 
obligation exists, it is probable that such costs will be incurred and they can be estimated reliably. With respect to such estimated future costs, 
there were provisions at 31 December 2009 in the aggregate of $101m, which mainly relate to the US. These provisions do not include possible 
additional costs that are not currently probable. Where we are jointly liable or otherwise have cost sharing agreements with third parties, we 
reflect only our share of the obligation. Where the liability is insured in part or in whole by insurance or other arrangements for reimbursement, 
an asset is recognised to the extent that this recovery is virtually certain. 
It is possible that AstraZeneca could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions. The extent of such possible, 
additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including: (1) the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted 
in the future; (2) whether AstraZeneca has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims; (3) the type of remedial 
action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known; (4) the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability 
to third parties; and (5) the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take. Notwithstanding 
and subject to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss for future environmental investigation, remediation and remedial 
operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions could be, in aggregate, in the order of $10-25m, which relates solely to the US.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
169 Financial Statements
Legal proceedings
AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including actual or threatened litigation and/or actual 
or potential government investigations relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, pricing, sales and marketing practices, 
infringement of intellectual property rights, the validity of certain patents and anti-trust laws. The more significant matters are discussed below. 
Most of the claims involve highly complex issues. Often, these issues are subject to substantial uncertainties and therefore the probability of 
a loss, if any, being sustained and an estimate of the amount of any loss is difficult to ascertain. Consequently, for a majority of these claims, 
it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of the 
proceedings. In these cases, AstraZeneca discloses information with respect to the nature and facts of the cases. 
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, other than those for which provision has been made, we are unable to make 
estimates of the possible loss or range of possible losses at this stage, other than as set forth herein. We also do not believe that disclosure 
of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due to a number of 
factors including: the stage of the proceedings (in many cases trial dates have not been set) and the overall length and extent of pre-trial 
discovery; the entitlement of the parties to an action to appeal a decision; clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing law; 
uncertainties in timing of litigation; and the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings referred to in this Note 25, based on 
management's current and considered view of each situation, we do not currently expect them to have a material adverse effect on our 
financial position. This position could of course change over time, not least because of the factors referred to above. 
In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, or where quantifiable fines and penalties have been assessed and which are not subject to 
appeal (or other similar forms of relief), or where a loss is probable and we are able to make a reasonable estimate of the loss, we indicate 
the loss absorbed or the amount of the provision accrued. AstraZeneca is defending its interests in various federal and state investigations 
and civil litigation matters relating to drug marketing and pricing practices and in respect of which the Company has made provisions in 
aggregate of $636m during 2009. $524m of this has been made in respect of the US Attorney's Office's investigation into sales and 
marketing practices involving Seroquel and $112m relates to average wholesale price litigation. The current status of these matters is 
described below. These provisions constitute our best estimate at this time of the losses expected for these matters. 
Where it is considered that the Group is more likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved in defending the claim are charged to profit as 
they are incurred. 
Where it is considered that the Group has a valid contract which provides the right to reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise) of legal 
costs and/or all or part of any loss incurred or for which a provision has been established, we consider recovery to be virtually certain and, 
the best estimate of the amount expected to be received is recognised as an asset. 
Assessments as to whether or not to recognise provisions or assets and of the amounts concerned usually involve a series of complex 
judgements about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. AstraZeneca believes that the provisions recorded are 
adequate based on currently available information and that the insurance recoveries recorded will be received. However, given the inherent 
uncertainties involved in assessing the outcomes of these cases and in estimating the amount of the potential losses and the associated 
insurance recoveries, we could in future periods incur judgments or insurance settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our 
results in any particular period. 
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the Group's patents on various products or processes and assertions of non-infringement 
of patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent protection on the related product. The consequences of any such loss 
could be a significant decrease in sales of the product, which could materially affect the future results of the Group. The lawsuits pending 
against companies that have filed ANDAs in the US, seeking to market generic forms of products sold by the Group prior to the expiry of the 
applicable patents covering these products, typically include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these patents. 
In the event that the Group is not successful in these actions or the statutory 30-month stay expires before a ruling is obtained, the 
companies involved will also have the ability, subject to FDA approval, to introduce generic versions of the product concerned. 
Accolate (zafirlukast)
Patent litigation - US
In May 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Ltd and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, 
Inc. (together DRL) that it had submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market Accolate before expiration of AstraZeneca's FDA-listed 
patents. AstraZeneca lists seven patents referencing Accolate in the FDA's Orange Book. DRL did not challenge two listed patents, US Patent 
Nos. 4,859,692 and 5,583,152, which both expire in September 2010. As a result, DRL cannot market its zafirlukast product before the 
patents expire in 2010. DRL 's notice-letter challenged the five remaining listed patents alleging non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability. 
In June 2008, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation against DRL in the United States District Court for the District of New 
Jersey for infringement of three of the five remaining listed patents, US Patent Nos. 5,319,097 (the '097 patent), 5,482,963 (the '963 patent) 
and 6,143,775 (the '775 patent). The remaining two patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book have expiration dates in December 2011 and 
March 2014. In mid-2009, the parties agreed to dismiss without prejudice all claims and counterclaims based on the '097 and '775 patents. 
The matter proceeds in discovery based only on the '963 patent. The parties have submitted claim construction briefing.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Accolate.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
170 Financial Statements
Arimidex (anastrozole)
Patent litigation - Canada
In July 2009, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. (AstraZeneca Canada) received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC (trading under 
the name Genpharm ULC) (Mylan ULC) in respect of Canadian Patent No. 1,337,420 (the '420 patent) listed on the Canadian Patent Register 
for Arimidex. Mylan ULC alleges, among other things, that the '420 patent is invalid and/or its product does not infringe the '420 patent. In 
September 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a 
Notice of Compliance (NOC) to Mylan ULC for its anastrozole tablets until the expiration of the '420 patent. The matter proceeds.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Arimidex.
Atacand (candesartan cilexetil)
Patent litigation - Canada
In April 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz Canada Inc. (Sandoz Canada) in respect of Canadian Patent 
Nos. 2,040,955 (the '955 patent) and 2,083,305 (the '305 patent) listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. Sandoz Canada indicated 
it would await the expiry of the '955 patent, but alleged that the '305 patent was not infringed and was not properly listed on the Canadian 
Patent Register.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca Canada filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing 
a NOC to Sandoz for its 4, 8 and 16mg candesartan cilexetil tablets until the expiration of the '305 patent. In December 2009, AstraZeneca 
Canada discontinued the proceeding. Sandoz may not receive a NOC until the expiry of the '955 patent.
Patent litigation - EU
In Portugal, in December 2009 a request was filed with the Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance seeking a preliminary injunction in 
the administrative courts in order to suspend the effect of decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal to grant Sandoz Farmac utica 
Limitada marketing authorisations for generic candesartan cilexetil.
Atacand HCT (candesartan cilexetil - hydrochlorothiazide)
Patent litigation - US
In September 2008 and March 2009, AstraZeneca and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda) received Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letters from Matrix Laboratories Limited (Matrix) notifying the parties that it had submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market 
a generic version of Atacand HCT, a combination product containing candesartan cilexetil and hydrochlorothiazide in 32/12.5, 32/25 and 
16/12.5mg dose forms. Matrix is a subsidiary of Mylan, Inc. AstraZeneca then listed five patents referencing Atacand HCT in the FDA's Orange 
Book. Matrix's notice alleged non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability in respect of US Patent Nos. 5,534,534 (the '534 patent), 5,721,263 
(the '263 patent) and 5,958,961 (the '961 patent). Matrix did not challenge the two listed compound patents US Patent Nos. 5,705,517 (the '517 
patent) and 5,196,444 (the '444 patent), the latest of which expires in June 2012. As a result, Matrix cannot market its candesartan cilexetil/
hydrochlorothiazide combination product before December 2012, when the six-month Paediatric Exclusivity period expires. AstraZeneca 
and Takeda did not file a complaint for patent infringement.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca and Takeda received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) notifying the parties 
that it has submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of Atacand HCT in 32/12.5, 32/25 and 16/12.5mg dose 
forms. AstraZeneca now lists six unexpired patents in the FDA's Orange Book directed to Atacand HCT. Sandoz's notice-letter alleges that 
the '534 patent, the '263 patent and the '961 patent are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Sandoz did not challenge the '517 patent, the 
'444 patent or US Patent No. 7,538,133, the latest of which expires in June 2012. As a result, Sandoz cannot market its candesartan cilexetil/
hydrochlorothiazide combination product before December 2012, when the six-month Paediatric Exclusivity period expires. AstraZeneca and 
Takeda did not file a complaint for patent infringement.
Patent litigation - Canada
In August 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz Canada in respect of Canadian Patent Nos. 2,040,955 
(the '955 patent), 2,083,305 (the '305 patent) and 2,125,251 (the '251 patent) listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand Plus. Sandoz 
Canada has confirmed that it will await the expiry of the '955 patent, but alleges that the '305 patent is not infringed and is not properly listed 
on the Canadian Patent Register and that the '251 patent is not infringed, invalid and not properly listed. In September 2009, AstraZeneca 
filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Sandoz for its 
16/12.5mg candesartan cilexetil-HCT tablets until the expiration of the '305 and '251 patents.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan ULC in respect of the '955 patent, the '305 patent and 
the '251 patent. Mylan ULC alleges the '305 and '251 patents are invalid, infringed and not properly listed. AstraZeneca is reviewing Mylan 
ULC's notice.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Atacand and Atacand HCT.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
171 Financial Statements
Crestor (rosuvastatin) 
Patent litigation - US
AstraZeneca lists three patents referencing Crestor in the FDA's Orange Book: US Patent No. RE 37 ,314 covering the active ingredient (the '314 
patent), US Patent No. 6,316,460 covering formulations (the '460 patent), and US Patent No. 6,858,618 covering medical use (the '618 patent). 
Since 2007 , AstraZeneca has received Paragraph IV Certification notice-letters from nine generic drug companies. The companies each notified 
AstraZeneca that it had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets prior to the expiration of one 
or more of AstraZeneca's three FDA Orange Book-listed patents. AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP , AstraZeneca UK Limited, IPR Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc., and AstraZeneca's licensor, Shionogi Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha, have filed separate lawsuits in the US District Court for the District of 
Delaware, against various parents or subsidiaries of eight of these companies for infringement of the patent covering rosuvastatin calcium, the 
active ingredient in Crestor tablets. AstraZeneca did not file patent infringement actions against one company, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
USA, because it did not seek approval to market products before the 2016 expiration date of the patent covering the active ingredient. 
The parties filed various jurisdictional motions, which Magistrate Judge Leonard Stark decided in a Report and Recommendation Regarding 
Motions to Dismiss. In January 2009, the Court adopted the magistrate's report and recommendations deciding the defendants' various 
jurisdictional motions directed to parent and subsidiary entities.
In May 2009, the magistrate issued his Report and Recommendation Regarding Claim Construction, which set out his recommendations for 
claim construction of the '314 patent claims. In May 2009, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc (Mylan Pharma) and Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. (Par) 
filed objections to the Report. In October 2009, Judge Joseph Farnan overruled the objections of Mylan Pharma and Par to the Report and 
adopted Magistrate Judge Leonard Stark's recommendations for claim construction of the '314 patent claims.
After completion of fact-discovery, in September 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Motion for Summary Judgment of No Inequitable Conduct. 
Defendants Apotex Inc. and Aurobindo Pharm Ltd also then each renewed their respective motions directed to the Court's jurisdiction over 
their parent and subsidiary entities seeking separate trials in Florida and New Jersey, respectively. The parties also filed evidentiary motions. 
In December 2009, Magistrate Judge Leonard Stark issued his Report and Recommendation Regarding Motions for Summary Judgment 
and to Dismiss, and Order on Evidentiary Motions denying AstraZeneca's summary judgment motion and denying or granting the other 
pre-trial motions of the parties. In December 2009, Aurobindo Pharm Ltd and AstraZeneca filed objections to certain recommendations in 
the magistrate's report and recommendations. A decision by Judge Farnan on the magistrate's report and recommendations is pending.
In October 2009, by joint stipulation, AstraZeneca and Sandoz, entered into a standstill agreement staying the patent infringement action 
against Sandoz. Both parties agreed to be bound by the first final non-appealable decision rendered in the remaining Crestor cases with 
respect to the validity and enforceability of the '314 patent.
In December 2009, Judge Farnan modified requirements and procedures for the parties' pre-trial submissions and reset the beginning trial 
date to 22 February 2010.
Other US patent litigation
In October 2008, Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. (Teva Pharmaceuticals) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against AstraZeneca 
Pharmaceuticals LP , the Company, AstraZeneca UK Limited and IPR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging that 
Crestor infringed one of its formulation patents - Patent No. RE 39,502 (the '502 patent). In January 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca UK 
Limited moved for dismissal on jurisdictional grounds. By agreement, Teva Pharmaceuticals voluntarily dismissed its claims against the Company 
and AstraZeneca UK Limited without prejudice. In March 2009, AstraZeneca moved to transfer the case to the US District Court, District of 
Delaware. In April 2009, AstraZeneca also moved to strike Teva Pharmaceutical's jury demand. Both motions were denied. In September 2009, 
AstraZeneca filed a Motion for Summary Judgment of Invalidity Due to Prior Invention. In September 2009, Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a reissue 
application with the US Patent and Trademark Office with respect to the '502 patent. In October 2009, Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a motion to 
stay the litigation in its entirety during the pendency of the reissue prosecution in the US Patent and Trademark Office. AstraZeneca opposed 
Teva Pharmaceutical's motion, arguing that the summary judgment motion should be fully briefed and decided prior to any stay of the litigation. 
On 14 January 2010, the Court denied Teva Pharmaceutical's motion for a stay and ordered it to respond to AstraZeneca's summary 
judgment motion.
Patent litigation - Canada
In September 2008, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Novopharm Limited (Novopharm) in respect of Canadian 
Patents Nos. 2,072,945 (the '945 patent) and 2,313,783 (the '783 patent) listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Crestor. AstraZeneca 
responded by commencing a court application in October 2008 under the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations, seeking 
an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Novopharm until after expiry of the patents. 
In November 2008, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Apotex Inc. (Apotex) in respect of the '945 and '783 patents. 
AstraZeneca Canada responded by commencing a court application in December 2008 under the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) 
Regulations, seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Apotex until after expiry of the patents. 
In addition to the NOC proceedings currently pending against Novopharm and Apotex, separate, parallel patent infringement actions were 
filed in September 2009 against Novopharm and Apotex in the Federal Court of Canada with respect to the '945 patent. In November 2009, 
the federal court dismissed the Statement of Claim against Novopharm as premature without prejudice to re-file. AstraZeneca Canada has 
appealed the dismissal.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
172 Financial Statements
In April 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Cobalt Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cobalt) in respect of the '783 patent 
and the '945 patent. Cobalt claims that the '945 patent is not infringed and invalid; and that the '783 patent is not infringed and invalid.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC 
to Cobalt for its 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the expiration of the '945 and '783 patents.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz Canada with respect to the '945 and '783 patents. Sandoz 
Canada claims that the '945 patent is invalid and that the '783 patent is not infringed and invalid. In July 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of 
Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Sandoz Canada for its 5, 10, 20 and 
40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the expiration of the '945 and '783 patents.
In August 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from ratiopharm Inc. (ratiopharm) with respect to the '945 and '783 
patents. Ratiopharm claims that the '945 patent and the '783 patent are not infringed and invalid. In October 2009, AstraZeneca filed a 
Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to ratiopharm for its 5, 10, 20 
and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the expiration of the '945 and '783 patents.
As a consequence of AstraZeneca Canada's legal actions seeking prohibition orders, none of Novopharm, Apotex, Cobalt, Sandoz Canada 
or ratiopharm can obtain a NOC for its rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the earlier of the disposition of the respective court application in its 
favour or, unless a Prohibition Order is granted, 24 months after the date on which the respective court application was commenced 
(assuming its regulatory submission is approvable by that date).
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Crestor.
Entocort EC (budesonide)
AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDA's Orange Book referencing Entocort EC. In 2008, in response to Paragraph IV Certification notice-
letters from Barr Laboratories and Mylan Pharma notifying AstraZeneca that each had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to 
market a generic form of AstraZeneca's Entocort EC prior to the expiration of the two patents, AstraZeneca initiated patent infringement 
actions in the US District Court, District of Delaware. Trial is scheduled to begin on 17 May 2010. Discovery proceeds.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Entocort EC.
Exanta (ximelagatran)
The consolidated amended complaint that had alleged claims on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the 
period April 2003 to September 2004 under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 was 
dismissed in its entirety. Plaintiffs appealed this decision and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals summarily affirmed the trial court's 
dismissal of the action. Plaintiffs have not appealed the Second Circuit Court of Appeals' decision. This litigation is therefore concluded.
Faslodex (fulvestrant)
AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDA's Orange Book referencing Faslodex: US Patent No. 6,774,122 (the '122 patent) and US Patent No. 
7,456,160 (the '160 patent), both of which expire in 2021. In November 2009, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter 
from Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva Parenteral) stating that Teva Parenteral had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to 
market generic fulvestrant injection 50 mg/ml, and alleging the invalidity and unenforceability of the patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book 
with respect to Faslodex. In January 2010, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit against Teva Parenteral, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva 
Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the '122 and '160 patents.
Iressa (gefitinib)
Between 2004 and 2008, seven claims were filed against AstraZeneca KK in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts. In six of the 
claims, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of interstitial lung disease (ILD) in a Japanese patient. In the seventh claim, it is alleged 
that Iressa caused a non-fatal incidence of ILD. AstraZeneca KK believes the claims are without merit and is defending all the cases. 
Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole)
Patent litigation - US
From 2001 to 2005, as previously reported more fully, AstraZeneca entered into patent infringement litigation against numerous generic companies 
including Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d.d. and Lek Services USA, Inc. (together Lek), Impax Laboratories Inc. (Impax) 
manufacturers of the generic product distributed in the US by Teva Pharma Ltd (Teva Pharma), Apotex Corp. and Apotex, Inc. (together 
Apotex Group), Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Andrx), and Laboratorios Esteve, SA and Esteve Quimica, SA (together Esteve) (manufacturers 
of the omeprazole product distributed in the US by Mylan Pharma). The basis for these proceedings included that conduct of these companies 
would infringe US Patent Nos. 4,786,505 (the '505 patent) and 4,853,230 (the '230 patent) formulation patents relating to omeprazole. 
In 2003, Mylan Pharma commenced commercial sale of Esteve's generic omeprazole product. In 2003 and 2004, Lek, Apotex Group and 
Teva Pharma (distributing Impax's product) commenced commercial sales of generic omeprazole products. AstraZeneca made claims for 
damages against each selling defendant, as well as damages claims against Andrx. Anti-trust counterclaims were filed by many generic 
defendants. Several anti-trust counterclaims, as well as several AstraZeneca claims, proceed in the US District Court for the Southern District 
of New York.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
173 Financial Statements
From April to June 2006, a consolidated bench trial on patent liability issues occurred in the District Court, involving defendants, Mylan Pharma, 
Esteve, Lek, Apotex Group and Impax. In May 2007, the Court upheld both formulation patents covering Prilosec. The Court found that the 
generic omeprazole formulations of Impax and Apotex Group infringed AstraZeneca's patents. The Court also found that the generic products 
sold by Lek, Mylan Pharma and Esteve did not infringe AstraZeneca's patents. AstraZeneca appealed the Mylan Pharma/Esteve decision to 
the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In June 2008, the Federal Circuit upheld the ruling that Mylan Pharma/Esteve did not infringe. 
In September 2008, the Federal Circuit upheld that the generic omeprazole formulations of Impax and Apotex Group infringed AstraZeneca's 
patents-in-suit. In January 2010, AstraZeneca settled with Impax and Teva Pharma, who market Impax's product. AstraZeneca received a 
one-time payment for past infringing sales. AstraZeneca continues to pursue damages and additional remedies from Andrx and Apotex Group.
Patent litigation - Canada
AstraZeneca continues to be involved in proceedings in Canada involving various patents relating to omeprazole capsules and omeprazole 
magnesium tablets. Apotex launched a generic omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004. 
In January 2006, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. was served with a claim in the Federal Court of Canada for payment of an undetermined sum based 
on damages allegedly suffered by Apotex due to the delay from January 2002 to January 2004 in the issuance to Apotex of a NOC for its 
20mg omeprazole capsule product. AstraZeneca believes the claim is without merit and is defending it, as well as continuing to vigorously 
pursue its already pending patent infringement action against Apotex. 
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Losec/Prilosec. 
European Commission case
In June 2005, the Commission notified the Company and AstraZeneca AB of its Decision to impose fines totalling  60m on the companies 
for infringement of European competition law (Article 82 of the EC Treaty (now Article 102 TFEU) and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement). The 
Commission alleges that the companies abused their dominant positions in the periods between 1993 and 2000 by making a pattern of 
misleading representations before the patent offices and/or courts in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and the UK in 
regard to obtaining supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole; and by requesting the surrender of market authorisations for 
omeprazole capsules in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, combined with withdrawal of omeprazole capsules from these countries and the 
launch of omeprazole MUPS (tablets). AstraZeneca does not accept the Commission's decision and has appealed it to the Court of First 
Instance (now referred to, following the Treaty of Lisbon, as the General Court). AstraZeneca denies that it had a dominant position or that it 
was engaged in the behaviours as characterised by the Commission. In the meantime, the fine was fully provided for in the half-year results 
in 2005 through a charge to operating profit of $75m. Because it is further alleged by the Commission that these activities had the effect of 
hindering the entry of the generic version of Losec and parallel trade, it is possible that third parties could seek damages for alleged losses 
arising from this matter. Any such claims would be vigorously resisted. 
The oral hearing in the above appeal to the General Court took place in November 2008 and AstraZeneca expects the appeal judgment to 
be handed down in 2010.
Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium)
Sales and marketing practices
AstraZeneca entities have been sued in various state and federal courts in the US in purported representative class actions involving the 
marketing of Nexium. These actions generally allege that AstraZeneca's promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians and consumers 
was unfair, unlawful and deceptive, particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with Prilosec. They also allege that 
AstraZeneca's conduct relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive. The plaintiffs allege claims under various state 
consumer protection, unfair practices and false advertising laws. The plaintiffs in these cases seek remedies that include restitution, 
disgorgement of profits, damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys' fees and costs of suit.
The first action was brought in 2004 in California state court on behalf of a class of California consumers and third-party payers. Lawsuits 
making substantially similar allegations were later filed in 2004 and 2005 in state courts in Arkansas, Florida, Massachusetts and Delaware, 
and in Delaware federal court.
The Florida and Arkansas cases have been dismissed at the trial court level and both of these dismissals have been affirmed on appeal. In 
March 2009, the California court granted AstraZeneca's motions for summary judgment and denied plaintiffs' motion for class certification. 
That decision has been appealed. In May 2009, the Massachusetts court held oral argument on AstraZeneca's motion for summary judgment 
and plaintiffs' motion for class certification. Those motions are pending.
The case in Delaware federal court was initially dismissed in November 2005, but the decision was vacated in March 2009 by the Court of 
Appeals for reconsideration in light of the US Supreme Court's pre-emption decision in Wyeth v. Levine. AstraZeneca has moved to dismiss 
the case on alternative grounds and intends to vigorously defend the case. The Delaware state case has been stayed pending the outcome 
of the federal case.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
174 Financial Statements
Patent litigation - US
In April 2008, AstraZeneca entered into a settlement agreement and consent judgment with Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ranbaxy 
Laboratories Limited (together Ranbaxy) to settle the Ranbaxy ANDA patent litigation. Ranbaxy was the first to file a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter in respect of Nexium patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book. The settlement agreement allows Ranbaxy to commence sales of 
a generic version of Nexium under a license from AstraZeneca on 27 May 2014.
AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in January 2006 from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. stating that IVAX Corporation 
(together IVAX Group) had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. In 
March 2006, AstraZeneca commenced wilful patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against IVAX 
Group, its parent Teva Pharmaceuticals, and their affiliates (together Teva Group). In December 2008, the Court granted AstraZeneca's 
motion to add Cipla, Ltd. as a defendant in the IVAX Group/Teva Group litigation. 
In January 2010, AstraZeneca entered into an agreement to settle the IVAX Group/Teva Group litigation. Teva Group conceded that all patents-
at-issue in its US Nexium patent litigations are valid and enforceable. Teva Group also conceded that its ANDA product would infringe six of 
the Nexium patents-in-suit. AstraZeneca has granted Teva Group a license for its ANDA product to enter the US market, subject to regulatory 
approval, on 27 May 2014. This date and the settlement are consistent with AstraZeneca's settlement with Ranbaxy. As a result of settlement 
and entry of a consent judgment, the litigation against IVAX Group/Teva Group and Cipla, Ltd. has been dismissed.
AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in December 2007 from DRL stating that DRL had submitted an ANDA for 20 
and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules alleging invalidity and/or non-infringement in respect of certain AstraZeneca 
US patents. In January 2008, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey 
against DRL in response to DRL 's Paragraph IV certifications regarding Nexium. Although previously consolidated with the above referenced 
IVAX Group/Teva Group and Cipla, Ltd litigations, the DRL litigation proceeds. No trial date has been set.
In 2008, AstraZeneca, IVAX Group and DRL filed declaratory judgment suits in US District Court, District of New Jersey alleging non-infringement 
and/or invalidity for patents that were not previously included in the ongoing Nexium patent infringement litigations. In January 2010, as part 
of the above referenced settlement, the IVAX Group declaratory judgment actions were dismissed. The declaratory judgment actions involving 
DRL proceed. No trial date has been set for the DRL actions.
In December 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sandoz stating that Sandoz had submitted an ANDA 
for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. In January 2009, AstraZeneca commenced patent 
infringement litigation in US District Court. In July 2009, the Court stayed the Sandoz patent infringement litigation until after trial in the above 
referenced DRL patent infringement litigation. No trial date has been set in the Sandoz patent infringement litigation.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Lupin Limited (Lupin) stating that Lupin had submitted 
an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules relating to patents listed in the FDA's 
Orange Book with reference to Nexium. In October 2009, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation against Lupin in the US 
District Court for the District of New Jersey. The Lupin litigation proceeds in its early stages. No trial date has been set.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sun Pharma Global FZE (Sun) stating that Sun had 
submitted an ANDA for esomeprazole sodium for injection 20mg/vial and 40mg/vial relating to patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book. 
AstraZeneca is reviewing Sun's notice.
Patent litigation - Canada
AstraZeneca Canada received several notices of allegation from Apotex in late 2007 in respect of patents listed on the Canadian Patent 
Register for 20 and 40mg copies of Nexium tablets. AstraZeneca responded by commencing seven court applications in January 2008 
under the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations. Apotex cannot obtain a NOC for its esomeprazole tablets until the earlier 
of the end of September 2010 or the disposition of all of the court applications in Apotex's favour. The application hearing has been 
scheduled to take place from 31 May to 4 June 2010.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan ULC relating to all patents listed on the Canadian Patent 
Register for Nexium. AstraZeneca is reviewing Mylan ULC's notice and is considering its options.
Patent litigation - Brazil
AstraZeneca has filed two law suits before the Federal Courts of Brasilia seeking judicial declaration confirming that all conditions established 
in the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement have been satisfied and therefore entitling AstraZeneca to 
exclusive marketing rights for Nexium through 2012. AstraZeneca is awaiting trial decision on the merits.
Patent litigation - EU
During 2009, marketing authorisations for generic products containing 20 and 40 mg esomeprazole magnesium were granted in Europe to 
companies in the Sandoz group. Denmark was the reference member state and the other EU countries included in the decentralised regulatory 
procedure were Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Slovenia and Spain.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
175 Financial Statements
In Denmark, Sandoz A/S launched its esomeprazole magnesium products in June 2009. AstraZeneca filed an application in June 2009 with 
the District Court of Copenhagen in Denmark seeking an interlocutory injunction to restrain Sandoz A/S from marketing products containing 
generic esomeprazole magnesium in Denmark. AstraZeneca considers that the products marketed by Sandoz A/S infringe intellectual property 
owned by AstraZeneca relating to Nexium. The oral proceedings were held in court in Denmark in December 2009. On 5 January 2010, the 
District Court of Copenhagen granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction against Sandoz A/S. The injunction prohibits Sandoz A/S from 
selling, offering for sale or marketing the pharmaceutical products  Esomeprazole Sandoz' and other pharmaceutical products containing 
esomeprazole magnesium with an optical purity of equal to or greater than 99.8% enantiomeric excess in Denmark. Sandoz A/S may appeal 
this decision to the Eastern High Court of Denmark within four weeks. An appeal will not suspend the effect on the injunction, and the 
injunction will be in force during an appeal process.
In Portugal, AstraZeneca filed a request in August 2009 with the Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance seeking a preliminary injunction 
and initiating a main action in the administrative courts. AstraZeneca has filed the request to seek a suspension of the effect of decisions taken 
by administrative bodies in Portugal to grant Sandoz Farmac utica Limitada marketing authorisations for generic esomeprazole magnesium. 
In October 2009, the Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction suspending the efficacy of 
the marketing authorisations and the price approvals for Sandoz Farmac utica Limitada's generic esomeprazole magnesium. The decision 
has been appealed by the Portuguese authorities.
In Austria, AstraZeneca filed two applications in December 2009 with the Vienna Commercial Court seeking interlocutory injunctions to restrain 
Hexal Pharma GmbH and 1A Pharma GmbH, both companies in the Sandoz group, from marketing products containing generic esomeprazole 
magnesium in Austria. AstraZeneca considers that the generic products infringe the optical purity patent covering Nexium.
In Slovenia, AstraZeneca filed an application in January 2010 with the District Court of Ljubljana seeking an interlocutory injunction to restrain 
Lek d.d., a company within the Sandoz group, from selling products containing esomeprazole magnesium in Slovenia. AstraZeneca considers 
that the generic products infringe the optical purity patent covering Nexium.
In July 2008 Sandoz AS, Sandoz A/S and Hexal AG initiated an invalidity case regarding two esomeprazole related patents in Norway. In 
December 2009 the Court delivered its judgment. The Court invalidated a formulation patent while it upheld a substance patent related to 
esomeprazole. Both parties have appealed.
In July 2008 AstraZeneca initiated a declaratory action in Finland requesting the Court to confirm that Sandoz AS and Sandoz A/S would 
infringe a patent relating to esomeprazole if they were to commercialise their generic esomeprazole product in Finland. In September 2008, 
Hexal AG, Sandoz Oy Ab and Sandoz A/S initiated an invalidity case requesting the Court to invalidate the same patent.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Nexium.
Patent proceedings
In July 2009, the European Patent Office (EPO) published the grant of two patents that relate to Nexium (the Esomeprazole Magnesium 
Patent) and Nexium i.v. (the Esomeprazole Sodium Patent). These two patents were granted on the basis of two divisional applications of 
European Patent No. 0652872 (the Parent Patent). The Parent Patent, a substance patent covering Nexium, was revoked by the EPO Board 
of Appeal in December 2006 following post-grant opposition and appeal proceedings. The Esomeprazole Magnesium Patent also covers 
Nexium, although the claims are different and narrower than the Parent Patent.
The divisional applications were supported by new evidence that was not available at the time the EPO Board of Appeal made its decision to 
revoke the Parent Patent. The new patents are due to remain in force until May 2014. The claims of the Esomeprazole Magnesium Divisional 
Application are limited to preparations and uses thereof having a very high optical purity, namely esomeprazole magnesium with an optical 
purity of equal to or greater than 99.8% enantiomeric excess. Hexal AG and Teva Pharmaceuticals filed Notices of Opposition against the 
grant of Esomeprazole Magnesium Patent in July 2009.
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) inquiry
In July 2008, AstraZeneca received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Federal Trade Commission seeking information regarding the 
Nexium patent litigation settlement with Ranbaxy. AstraZeneca is co-operating fully with the request. 
Prilosec OTC (omeprazole magnesium)
Patent litigation - US
In June 2007, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from DRL stating that DRL had submitted an ANDA seeking 
FDA approval to market a 20mg delayed release omeprazole magnesium capsule for the OTC market (AstraZeneca's OTC product is marketed by 
Proctor & Gamble Co.) before the expiration of the patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book in reference to the Prilosec OTC product. In July 
2007 , AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against DRL. 
In March 2009, the Court granted DRL 's motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the two patents-in-suit. In July 2009, 
AstraZeneca appealed this ruling to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals and in December 2009 the Court affirmed the District Court's 
summary judgment of non-infringement.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Prilosec OTC.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
176 Financial Statements
Pulmicort Respules (budesonide inhalation suspension)
Patent litigation - US
In March 2008, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Breath Ltd. (now owned by Watson 
Pharmaceuticals, hereinafter Watson) for patent infringement. The lawsuit is the result of an ANDA filed by Watson with the FDA concerning 
Watson's intent to market a generic version of AstraZeneca's Pulmicort Respules in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZeneca's patents. 
The basis for AstraZeneca's complaint is that the action by Watson of filing an ANDA infringes certain of AstraZeneca's patents directed to 
Pulmicort Respules and their use. The Watson litigation proceeds. 
In March 2009, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Apotex Group seeking a declaratory 
judgment of patent infringement. Apotex Group thereafter filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity. The lawsuit follows the 
FDA's approval of an ANDA filed by Apotex Group and concerns Apotex Group's intent to market an FDA-approved generic version of 
Pulmicort Respules in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZeneca's patents. In April 2009, on AstraZeneca's motion, the Court issued a 
Temporary Restraining Order barring Apotex Group from launching its generic version of Pulmicort Respules until further order of the Court. 
In April 2009, the Court commenced a hearing to determine whether to continue the injunction. In May 2009, the Court issued a Preliminary 
Injunction barring Apotex Group from launching its generic version of Pulmicort Respules until further order of the Court. Apotex Group 
appealed the issuance of the Preliminary Injunction to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Oral argument on the appeal is scheduled 
for 5 February 2010. 
The litigations involving Apotex Group and Watson have been consolidated under a common scheduling order. In April 2009, the US Patent 
and Trademark Office issued AstraZeneca a new patent directed to sterile formulations of budesonide inhalation suspensions. AstraZeneca 
listed the new patent in the FDA's Orange Book, referencing Pulmicort Respules. AstraZeneca amended its pleadings against Apotex Group 
and Watson alleging infringement of the newly issued patent. The consolidated litigation proceeds.
Under the terms of the previously reported 2008 settlement agreement resolving patent litigation respecting Teva Pharma's generic copies of 
Pulmicort Respules, Teva Pharma was granted an exclusive license to market its generic product on or after 15 December 2009. Teva Pharma 
launched its generic product in December 2009.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Pulmicort Respules.
Seroquel (quetiapine fumarate)
Sales and marketing practices
The US Attorney's Office in Philadelphia, working with a number of states as part of the National Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, has been directing 
an investigation relating to Seroquel involving a review of sales and marketing practices, including allegations that AstraZeneca promoted 
Seroquel for non-indicated (off-label) uses. AstraZeneca understands that this investigation is the subject of two sealed qui tam (whistleblower) 
lawsuits filed under the False Claims Act. During the investigation, the government also raised allegations related to selected physicians who 
participated in clinical studies involving Seroquel. In September 2009, AstraZeneca reached an agreement in principle with the US Attorney's 
Office to resolve the investigation, subject to the negotiation and finalisation of appropriate implementing agreements, including civil settlement 
agreements and a corporate integrity agreement. This agreement will involve AstraZeneca paying $524m, including interest, and a provision 
for this amount has been made in 2009.
There are also a number of additional active investigations involving Seroquel sales and marketing practices led by state Attorneys General which 
include investigations relating to Seroquel off-label issues and which purport to cover issues in addition to the respective states' participation 
in the National Medicaid Fraud Control Unit. Over 40 states, as part of the National Association of Attorneys General, are participating in a 
joint investigation and several states may also have individual investigations.
Some states are separately suing AstraZeneca. In February 2007, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania filed suit against AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly 
& Company (Lilly), and Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. (Janssen) claiming damages incurred by the Commonwealth as a result of alleged off-label 
promotion of atypical anti-psychotics by the three manufacturers. The lawsuit is filed in state court in Philadelphia and seeks to recover the cost 
to the Pennsylvania Medicaid programme and other state-funded health insurance programmes for prescriptions written as a result of the 
alleged off-label promotion and also seeks compensation for costs incurred by the state for the treatment of Medicaid and other public 
assistance beneficiaries who allegedly developed diabetes, hyperglycaemia and other conditions as a result of using Seroquel without adequate 
warning. In December 2007, the Court granted the defendants' motion to sever the claims against AstraZeneca and Janssen from those 
against Lilly and directed the Commonwealth to file separate complaints against the two severed defendants, which the Commonwealth did 
in January 2008. In December 2008, the Court granted AstraZeneca's motion to dismiss all but two counts of the complaint including dismissal 
of the Commonwealth's claims alleging violations of the Pennsylvania Medicaid False Claims Act.
Similar lawsuits were filed by the State of Montana in February 2008, the State of Arkansas in May 2008, the State of South Carolina in January 
2009 and the State of New Mexico in February 2009. These suits generally seek compensation for costs incurred by the state for the treatment 
of Medicaid and other public assistance beneficiaries who allegedly developed diabetes, hyperglycaemia and other conditions as a result of 
using Seroquel without adequate warning. In addition, these lawsuits seek reimbursement of payments made by the state Medicaid programmes 
for prescriptions that relate to so-called non-medically accepted indications of Seroquel. The lawsuits further seek various fines and penalties. 
AstraZeneca believes these claims to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend against them. The suits are in various stages of 
litigation, but the Pennsylvania and Arkansas suits are furthest along and are in the discovery phase.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
177 Financial Statements
In May 2007, the New Jersey Ironworkers Local Union No. 68 filed a class action suit against AstraZeneca on behalf of all individuals and 
non-governmental entities that paid for Seroquel from January 2000 to date. The lawsuit was filed in the federal District Court in New Jersey 
and alleged that AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel for off-label uses and misled class members into believing that Seroquel was superior to 
other, lower-cost alternative medicines. Two similar class action lawsuits were filed in June and July 2007 in the New Jersey and Pennsylvania 
federal courts. In December 2007 , the three lawsuits were transferred to the Middle District of Florida by the US Judicial Panel on Multi-District 
Litigation (MDL). In November 2008, the MDL Court granted AstraZeneca's motion and dismissed these cases in their entirety with prejudice, 
and the plaintiffs appealed. AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend against the appeal, which is scheduled to be heard by the Eleventh 
Circuit Court of Appeals in February 2010.
In September 2008, the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund (PEBTF) served AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP with a complaint filed 
in the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County seeking economic damages stemming from allegedly improper marketing 
practices that caused the PEBTF to reimburse for allegedly overpriced Seroquel prescriptions and the medical care of PEBTF members 
allegedly injured from Seroquel use. In October 2008, AstraZeneca removed this lawsuit to federal court and immediately requested that it 
be transferred to the Seroquel MDL. In July 2009, the MDL Court dismissed PEBTF's complaint with prejudice. PEBTF has elected to forgo a 
federal appeal of that decision, and instead is pursuing an appeal in the Pennsylvania Superior Court on the dismissal of an earlier-filed state 
court action. AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend itself against this lawsuit.
Product liability
In August 2003, Susan Zehel-Miller filed a putative class action against the Company and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP on behalf of  all 
persons in the US who purchased and/or used Seroquel'. Among other things, the class action alleged that AstraZeneca failed to provide 
adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes. In 2004, the US District Court for 
the Middle District of Florida denied class certification and the case was ultimately dismissed. Two additional putative class actions raising 
similar allegations have likewise been dismissed. There are no other US class actions relating to Seroquel; however, four putative class actions 
raising substantially similar allegations have been filed in Canada, in the provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario and Quebec. The actions 
in British Columbia and Alberta are not moving forward at this time and no date has yet been scheduled for the certification hearing in Ontario. 
The Motion for Authorization (certification hearing) in the Quebec action was heard in December 2009. A decision is expected in early 2010.
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP , either alone or in conjunction with one or more affiliates, has been sued in numerous individual personal injury 
actions involving Seroquel. In most of these cases, the nature of the plaintiffs' alleged injuries is not clear from the complaint and, in most cases, 
little or no factual information regarding the alleged injury has been provided in the complaint. However, the plaintiffs generally contend that 
they developed diabetes and/or other related injuries as a result of taking Seroquel and/or other atypical anti-psychotic medications. 
As of 4 December 2009, AstraZeneca was defending 10,399 served or answered lawsuits involving 22,099 plaintiff groups. To date, approximately 
2,664 additional cases have been dismissed by order or agreement and approximately 1,642 of those cases have been dismissed with prejudice. 
Approximately 60% of the plaintiffs' currently pending Seroquel claims are in state courts (primarily Delaware, New Jersey, New York, California 
and Alabama) with the other 40% pending in the federal court, where most of the cases have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes into 
an MDL.
AstraZeneca is also aware of approximately 177 additional cases (approximately 3,459 plaintiffs) that have been filed but not yet served and 
has not determined how many additional cases, if any, may have been filed. Some of the cases also include claims against other pharmaceutical 
manufacturers such as Lilly, Janssen and/or Bristol Myers Squibb Company.
In January and February 2009, the federal judge presiding over the Seroquel MDL in the District Court for the Middle District of Florida granted 
AstraZeneca's motions for summary judgment in the first two Seroquel product liability cases set for trial and dismissed those cases. The plaintiff 
in one of these cases filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which was argued in December 
2009. The federal MDL court has stayed all remaining Florida cases pending a decision on that appeal. In November 2009, the MDL court 
stated that it would remand non-Florida cases to the federal district courts from which they were transferred originally, recommended that 
these cases be transferred to the courts of plaintiffs' states of residence and also suggested a stay of proceedings in all remanded cases 
pending the MDL court's evaluation of a pre-identified group of cases, currently numbering 37. The MDL court further ordered mediation 
before any cases are remanded. A mediation session was conducted in mid-January 2010.
In addition to the Seroquel MDL in federal court, AstraZeneca is defending Seroquel product liability suits in multiple state courts. Cases have 
been consolidated by state courts in Delaware, New Jersey and New York in order to manage the large volume of claims pending in those 
jurisdictions. AstraZeneca is also defending Seroquel product liability claims in California, Alabama and Missouri.
In May 2009, the judge presiding over the Seroquel litigation in the Superior Court of Delaware granted AstraZeneca's motion for summary 
judgment in the first Seroquel product liability case set for trial and dismissed the case. Immediately after this decision, plaintiffs voluntarily 
dismissed the next case scheduled for trial in June 2009 as well as additional cases scheduled for trial in November 2009. Plaintiff filed a 
notice of appeal of this decision to the Delaware Supreme Court, but later dismissed that appeal voluntarily. On 7 January 2010, the Delaware 
court granted AstraZeneca's motions for summary judgment in two trials scheduled to begin in mid-January 2010 and dismissed those cases. 
As a result, the first trial is now scheduled to begin in New Jersey state court in mid-February 2010. Although trial had been scheduled in 
Missouri for the first quarter of 2010, the trial date is being rescheduled at the request of the Court.
AstraZeneca intends to litigate these cases on their individual merits and will defend against the cases vigorously. 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
178 Financial Statements
AstraZeneca has product liability insurance dating from 2003 that is considered to respond to the vast majority of the Seroquel-related product 
liability claims. This insurance provides coverage for legal defence costs and potential damages amounts. The insurers that issued the applicable 
policies for 2003 have reserved the right to dispute coverage for Seroquel-related product liability claims on various grounds, and AstraZeneca 
currently believes that there are likely to be disputes with some or all of its insurers about the availability of some or all of this coverage. In December 
2009 AstraZeneca formally requested payment from some of its insurers for legal costs incurred in defending the Seroquel-related product 
liability claims. It may be necessary for AstraZeneca to commence legal proceedings against some or all of its insurers in order to recover payment. 
As of 31 December 2009 legal defence costs of approximately $656m (2008: $512m) have been incurred in connection with Seroquel-related 
product liability claims. The first $39m is not covered by insurance. At 31 December 2009 AstraZeneca has recorded an insurance receivable 
of $521m (2008: $426m) representing the maximum insurance receivable that AstraZeneca can recognise under applicable accounting 
principles at this time. This amount may increase as AstraZeneca believes that it is more likely than not that the vast majority of costs above 
the $521m recorded as an insurance receivable will ultimately be recovered through this insurance, although there can be no assurance of 
additional coverage under the policies, or that the insurance receivable we have recognised will be realisable in full. 
In addition, given the status of the litigation currently, legal defence costs for the Seroquel claims, before damages, if any, are likely to exceed 
the total stated upper limits of the applicable insurance policies.
Patent litigation - US
As previously reported, in 2005 and into 2006, AstraZeneca received Paragraph IV Certification notice-letters from Teva Pharmaceuticals 
USA Inc. (Teva) stating that Teva had submitted an ANDA and amendments for approval to market and sell quetiapine fumarate tablets prior 
to the expiration of the patent covering Seroquel tablets. AstraZeneca filed lawsuits directed to Teva's ANDA, as amended, in the US District 
Court for the District of New Jersey for patent infringement. 
AstraZeneca received a similar Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in March 2007 from Sandoz stating that Sandoz had submitted an 
ANDA for approval to market a generic version of AstraZeneca's quetiapine fumarate 25mg tablets prior to the expiration of AstraZeneca's 
listed patent. Sandoz's notice-letter alleged non-infringement and patent invalidity. AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the 
District of New Jersey against Sandoz alleging patent infringement. 
Teva and Sandoz thereafter conceded that their respective ANDA products infringe AstraZeneca's patent covering Seroquel and that the 
patent is valid, leaving only allegations of unenforceability relating to inequitable conduct.
In July 2008, the Court entered its Final Judgment in AstraZeneca's favour on all claims and defences in respect of infringement, validity, and 
enforceability of AstraZeneca's patent. Teva and Sandoz appealed the judgment to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. 
In February 2009, during the pendency of the appeal, AstraZeneca received another Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sandoz 
directed to the remaining approved Seroquel dosage amounts. AstraZeneca sued Sandoz in US District Court for the District of New Jersey 
alleging patent infringement in March 2009. The Court stayed the new action against Sandoz pending the outcome of the appeal.
In September 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment against Teva and Sandoz. In December 
2009, based on the Federal Circuit's decision and its July 2008 decision, the Court entered final judgment against Sandoz regarding the 
ANDA products in the new, stayed action resulting from its February 2009 notice-letter. 
In December 2009 and January 2010, respectively, AstraZeneca filed motions for orders declaring the cases involving Teva and Sandoz 
 exceptional' under 35 U.S.C.   285, thereby allowing recovery of attorneys' fees from each non-prevailing party. 
Patent litigation - Brazil
In January 2006 AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit before the Federal Courts of Rio de Janeiro seeking judicial declaration extending the term of one 
of its patents from 2006 to 2012 (SPC). A preliminary order was granted shortly thereafter. Later in 2006 the Brazilian Patent Office (BPTO) 
filed its bill of review against the preliminary order. AstraZeneca replied and in August 2006, the Federal Court of Appeals denied BPTO's bill 
of review confirming the preliminary order in favour of AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca is awaiting a trial decision on the merits.
Patent litigation - EU
Since 2007, AstraZeneca has filed requests with the Portuguese courts seeking suspension of the effect of decisions taken by administrative 
bodies in Portugal to grant other companies marketing authorisations for generic quetiapine fumarate. Many preliminary injunctions and main 
actions are pending before the courts. The Courts have generally agreed with AstraZeneca's position and suspended the market authorisations 
in the preliminary injunction actions until a definitive decision on the merits in the main actions.
Patent litigation - Seroquel XR
AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDA's Orange Book referencing Seroquel XR: US Patent No. 4,879,288 (the '288 patent) covering quetiapine 
fumarate, the active ingredient, and US Patent No. 5,948,437 (the '437 patent) covering extended-release formulations, processes and methods 
in respect of quetiapine fumarate. 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
179 Financial Statements
In July 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Handa Pharmaceuticals, LLC (Handa) stating that it had 
submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 200 and 300mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of AstraZeneca's 
two listed patents covering Seroquel XR. Handa's notice-letter alleged non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. Later in July 2008, 
AstraZeneca received a similar notice-letter from Handa stating that it had submitted an amendment to its ANDA for 200 and 300mg tablets 
adding a request for approval to market a generic version of 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of AstraZeneca's two listed 
patents covering Seroquel XR. 
In July 2008, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Handa and a currently unknown, associated entity 
alleging infringement of AstraZeneca's '288 and '437 patents covering Seroquel XR 200, 300 and 400mg tablets. The filing of this lawsuit 
triggered 30-month stays of FDA final approval for Handa's ANDA products. 
In September 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Accord Healthcare Inc. (Accord) advising that it had 
submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 200, 300 and 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before expiration of AstraZeneca's 
patent covering the Seroquel XR formulation. Accord is a subsidiary of Intas Pharmaceutical Limited (Intas). Later in September 2008, 
AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Accord, Intas and related entities, alleging infringement of the 
'437 patent. The filing of this lawsuit triggered a 30-month stay of FDA final approval for Accord's ANDA products. 
In October and November 2008, AstraZeneca received, respectively, a third and fourth Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Handa 
advising that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 50 and 150mg Seroquel XR tablets before expiration 
of AstraZeneca's patents covering the product. In October 2008, AstraZeneca filed a second lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, 
against Handa alleging infringement of AstraZeneca's patents covering the active ingredient and formulation of Seroquel XR 50mg tablets; 
and in December 2008, AstraZeneca filed a third lawsuit against Handa alleging infringement of AstraZeneca's patents covering the active 
ingredient and formulation of Seroquel XR 150mg tablets. The filing of these additional lawsuits triggered 30-month stays of FDA final approval 
for Handa's 50 and 150mg ANDA products. 
In December 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Biovail Laboratories International SRL (Biovail) stating 
that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 200, 300 and 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration 
of AstraZeneca's two listed patents covering Seroquel XR. Biovail's notice-letter alleged non-infringement and invalidity in respect of AstraZeneca's 
patents. In January 2009, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Biovail alleging infringement of 
AstraZeneca's '288 and '437 patents covering Seroquel XR 200, 300 and 400mg tablets. The filing of this lawsuit triggered a 30-month stay 
of FDA final approval for Biovail's ANDA products.
In January 2009, AstraZeneca received a second Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Accord advising that it had submitted an ANDA 
seeking approval to market a generic version of 150mg Seroquel XR tablets before expiration of AstraZeneca's '437 patent covering the product. 
In February 2009, AstraZeneca filed a second lawsuit in the District of New Jersey against Accord alleging infringement of AstraZeneca's 
patent covering the formulation of Seroquel XR 150mg tablets. The filing of this additional lawsuit triggered a 30-month stay of FDA final 
approval for Accord's 150mg ANDA product.
The matters respecting Handa, Accord and Biovail proceed in co-ordinated discovery. 
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Seroquel and Seroquel XR.
Synagis (palivizumab)
In December 2008, MedImmune initiated patent litigation against PDL BioPharma, Inc. (PDL) in the US District Court for the Northern District 
of California. MedImmune seeks a declaratory judgment that the Queen patents (owned by PDL) are invalid and/or not infringed by either 
Synagis and/or motavizumab, and that no further royalties are owed under a patent licence MedImmune and PDL signed in 1997 (1997 
Agreement). MedImmune has paid royalties on Synagis since 1998 under the 1997 Agreement. In February 2009, MedImmune amended its 
complaint to add a separate claim asserting that MedImmune is entitled under the 1997 Agreement's  most favoured licensee' provision to 
more favourable royalty terms that PDL has granted to other Queen patent licensees. PDL has taken the position in the case that both 
Synagis and motavizumab infringe a single claim of the Queen patents, and on that basis that MedImmune owes royalties for both products. 
With respect to the  most favoured licensee' dispute, PDL contends that MedImmune's rights under that provision have not been triggered 
by PDL 's licensing activities with third parties. In December 2009, PDL purported to cancel the 1997 Agreement and to add counterclaims to 
the case. The proposed counterclaims assert that MedImmune underpaid royalties on ex-US sales of Synagis by Abbott Laboratories, Inc. 
prior to the purported termination of the 1997 Agreement and separately also that MedImmune is infringing sales of Synagis post-dating the 
purported cancellation of the 1997 Agreement. If the Court permits PDL to add the claim for infringement, PDL plans to seek actual and 
exemplary damages and an injunction. MedImmune has moved to strike the amended counterclaims. A hearing on that motion is set for 
26 February 2010. The case is scheduled for trial on 14 June 2010.
Symbicort (budesonide/formoterol)
Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy (Symbicort SMART)
In December 2008, oppositions were filed against European patent EP1 085 877 B1 covering the use of Symbicort for the as needed symptomatic 
relief of asthma in addition to regular maintenance treatment of chronic asthma. The opponents are Vectura Limited, ratiopharm GmbH, 
Generics (UK) Limited and Norton Healthcare Limited. A hearing date has not yet been set by the EPO Opposition Division.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
180 Financial Statements
US patent term extension
In June 2008, the US Patent and Trademark Office issued a final determination that US Patent No. 5,674,860 was not eligible for patent term 
extension. AstraZeneca filed a request for reconsideration. 
AstraZeneca will vigorously defend and enforce its remaining intellectual property portfolio protecting Symbicort, which has patent expiry 
dates up to 2019 in Europe.
Toprol-XL (metoprolol succinate)
Beginning in 2003, AstraZeneca initiated and prosecuted numerous patent infringement actions involving patents covering Toprol-XL tablets 
against KV Pharmaceutical Company (KV), Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC (Andrx LLC) and Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. (later acquired by 
Sandoz) in US District Courts for the Eastern District of Missouri and District of Delaware in response to notifications of intentions to market 
generic versions of Toprol-XL tablets. At the end of 2008, the patent litigations relating to Toprol-XL had been decided, resolved or settled.
In the first quarter of 2006, AstraZeneca was served with 14 complaints filed in the US District Courts in Delaware, Massachusetts and Florida 
against AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca AB and Aktiebolaget H ssle. The complaints were putative class 
actions filed on behalf of both direct purchasers and indirect purchasers that allege that the AstraZeneca defendants attempted to illegally 
maintain monopoly power in the US over Toprol-XL in violation of the Sherman Act through the listing of invalid and unenforceable patents in 
the FDA's Orange Book and the enforcement of such patents through litigation against generic manufacturers seeking to market metoprolol 
succinate. The complaints seek treble damages based on alleged overcharges to the putative classes of plaintiffs. These 14 complaints were 
consolidated into two amended complaints in the US District Court in Delaware, one on behalf of direct purchasers, and one on behalf of 
indirect purchasers. The lawsuits are based upon a 2006 ruling by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in the consolidated 
patent litigation against KV, Andrx LLC and Sandoz, that the AstraZeneca patents relating to Toprol-XL are invalid and unenforceable. 
In 2006 AstraZeneca filed a motion seeking to dismiss or, in the alternative, stay the consolidated complaint in both anti-trust cases. 
AstraZeneca's motion to dismiss the anti-trust complaints is still pending. AstraZeneca denies the allegations of the anti-trust complaints and 
will vigorously defend the lawsuits.
Zestril (lisinopril)
In 1996, two of AstraZeneca's predecessor companies, Zeneca Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. (as licensees), Merck & Co., Inc. and Merck 
Frosst Canada Inc. (together Merck Group) commenced a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex, alleging 
infringement of Merck Group's lisinopril patent. Apotex sold a generic version of AstraZeneca's Zestril and Merck Group's Prinivil
 
 tablets. 
Following a trial in early 2006, in April 2006 the Federal Court of Canada ruled in favour of AstraZeneca and Merck Group on the key issues 
and Apotex stopped selling lisinopril in May 2006. In October 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal in Canada upheld the lower court's decision 
and dismissed Apotex's appeal. The Supreme Court of Canada dismissed Apotex's leave to appeal in May 2007. AstraZeneca intends to 
pursue a reference proceeding in the Federal Court to quantify the damages related to the infringement by Apotex. Apotex re-commenced 
the sale of lisinopril in October 2007 after expiry of the relevant patent.
Pain pump litigation
Since February 2008, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, Zeneca Holdings Inc., and/or the Company have been named as 
defendants and served with approximately 282 lawsuits, involving approximately 475 plaintiffs, filed in various US jurisdictions, alleging injuries 
caused by third-party pain pumps. The complaints in these cases generally allege that the use of Marcaine, Sensorcaine, Xylocaine and/or 
Naropin, with or without epinephrine, in pain pumps that were implanted into patients in connection with arthroscopic surgery, caused 
chrondrolysis. Other named defendants in these cases are other manufacturers and distributors of bupivacaine and lidocaine and other pain 
medications, pain pump manufacturers, and in some cases the surgeons. As of 21 January 2010, approximately 220 plaintiffs have voluntarily 
dismissed, or are in the process of dismissing, their cases against the AstraZeneca defendants. In addition, 13 cases, involving 17 plaintiffs 
were dismissed by the court on AstraZeneca motions, although some claims were refiled. AstraZeneca has likewise filed motions to dismiss 
or for summary judgment in numerous cases that are currently pending.
In October 2009, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP was served with a putative class action lawsuit brought by a single plaintiff on behalf of 
 several hundred' class members and against more than 20 defendants, including AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and the Company, filed 
in Texas State District Court. The putative class is purportedly defined as all individuals who received local anaesthetics intra-articularly for up 
to 72 hours or more via a pain pump and includes no geographical limitations. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and exemplary 
damages from the AstraZeneca defendants under various product liability theories. The case was removed to federal court by a co-defendant, 
and both AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and the Company filed motions to dismiss. Plaintiff then proceeded to voluntarily dismiss the 
Company, but AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP's motion remains fully briefed and currently pending.
Plaintiffs moved to consolidate the federal pain pump cases under the MDL process, but the Judicial Panel on MDL denied that motion in 
August 2008. In November 2009, three plaintiffs' firms filed a renewed motion for MDL consolidation for most, but not all, of the pain pump 
cases pending in federal court. In addition, plaintiffs in Minnesota federal court, New Jersey state court, and California state court have filed 
motions or otherwise asked the courts to consolidate the pain pump cases pending in those jurisdictions pursuant to a common case 
management plan. AstraZeneca is opposing these attempts at consolidation.
Rights to market Sensorcaine, Xylocaine and Naropin in the US were sold to Abraxis Bioscience Inc. (Abraxis) in June 2006 but many of 
these lawsuits may be a retained liability under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement with Abraxis.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend against this matter.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
181 Financial Statements
Average Wholesale Price Litigation
AstraZeneca is a defendant along with many other pharmaceutical manufacturers in several sets of cases involving allegations that, by causing 
the publication of allegedly inflated wholesale list prices, defendants caused entities to overpay for prescription drugs. During 2009, AstraZeneca 
made a total provision of $112m in relation to certain sets of cases regarding these alleged practices.
The first set of cases was filed in December 2001 in the US District Court in Boston, Massachusetts on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs 
and related only to the physician-administered Zoladex medication. Following the Massachusetts complaint, nearly identical class action suits 
were filed in two other states, which have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal 
multi-district litigation (MDL) procedures. AstraZeneca and other manufacturers were later sued in similar lawsuits filed by the State Attorneys 
General of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Utah, and 
Wisconsin, as well as by multiple individual counties in the State of New York. The Attorney General lawsuits seek to recover alleged 
overpayments under Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programmes for substantially all of AstraZeneca's medications. In several 
cases, the states are also suing to recover alleged overpayments by state residents. Several of these suits have also been consolidated with the 
Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal MDL procedures. Private insurers and consumers filed putative state-wide 
class actions in Arizona and New Jersey alleging damages relating to private reimbursement of prescription drugs. 
In the MDL action in January 2006, the District Court certified three classes of plaintiffs against a sub-group of defendants (the Track 1 
manufacturer defendants) including AstraZeneca. For AstraZeneca, the three certified classes were: a nationwide class of consumers who 
made co-payments for Zoladex reimbursed under the Medicare Part B programme (Part B drugs) (Class 1); a Massachusetts-only class of 
third party payers, including insurance companies, union health and welfare benefit plans, and self-insured employers, who covered consumer 
co-payments for Zoladex (Class 2); and a Massachusetts-only class of third party payers and consumers who paid for Zoladex outside of the 
Medicare programme (Class 3). For all classes, the only AstraZeneca drug at issue is Zoladex (goserelin acetate implant). 
In May 2007, AstraZeneca reached a settlement agreement resolving the Class 1 claims. The settlement, which was approved by the Court 
in December 2008, will involve payments of up to $24m to reimburse individual class members submitting claims, plus attorneys' fees of 
$8.58m. AstraZeneca has agreed that a portion of any unclaimed settlement amounts will be donated to charitable organisations funding 
cancer patient care and research. Notice of the proposed settlement was mailed to potential class members in December 2007. A provision 
of $27m was established in 2007. In November 2009, the Court of Appeals rejected a challenge to the settlement. The administration of 
claims under this settlement continues.
In June 2007 and November 2007 , the MDL Court issued decisions, after a bench trial, on liability and damages on Classes 2 and 3. The Court 
found AstraZeneca liable under the Massachusetts consumer protection statute for engaging in unfair and deceptive conduct in connection 
with the pricing of Zoladex during the period 1998 to 2003. The Court awarded double damages (with pre-judgment interest) of $5.5m for 
Class 2, and single damages (with pre-judgment interest) of $7.4m for Class 3, for a total of $12.9m. The District Court could award post-
judgment interest and attorneys' fees in addition to the judgment amount. AstraZeneca believes the decision to be in error and filed an 
appeal. In September 2009, a panel of the First Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's opinion and judgment. In November 2009, 
the First Circuit Court of Appeals denied AstraZeneca's petition seeking reconsideration of the panel's decision. In December 2009, AstraZeneca 
reached an agreement in principle to resolve the case, inclusive of pre- and post-judgment interest, administration fees, and plaintiffs' attorney 
fees. The settlement is subject to final Court approval. AstraZeneca took a provision of $13m with respect to this matter in 2009 and there is 
no material increase in reserve with respect to the settlement.
In September 2008, the MDL Court granted, in part, the plaintiffs' motion for class certification of third party payers in states other than 
Massachusetts. The Court certified multi-state versions of Class 2 and Class 3 relating to Zoladex. AstraZeneca believes the decision to be 
in error. In January 2009, the Court granted AstraZeneca's motion to stay the entry of the order pending its appeal of the Court's award relating 
to Massachusetts payers. In December 2009, AstraZeneca reached an agreement in principle to resolve, inclusive of pre- and post-judgment 
interest, administration fees and plaintiffs' attorney fees, the Zoladex claims subject to the Court's multi-state class certification opinion and 
the Zoladex claims in the lawsuit but not certified for class action treatment. The settlement is subject to negotiation of terms and final Court 
approval. AstraZeneca took a provision of $90m in 2009 in respect of this settlement. 
The multiple Attorney General lawsuits pending against AstraZeneca and other manufacturers nationwide, which involve numerous drugs in 
addition to Zoladex, remain pending and are in various stages of discovery. Those matters with significant developments are noted below.
The average wholesale price case filed by the Alabama Attorney General was tried in Circuit Court in Montgomery, Alabama in February 2008. 
The trial resulted in a jury verdict against AstraZeneca on the State's claims of fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation, and an award 
of compensatory damages of $40m and punitive damages of $175m. In June 2008, the trial court held a hearing on AstraZeneca's request 
for post-trial relief and reduced the punitive damages award, as required by statute, to $120m. AstraZeneca filed an appeal with the Alabama 
Supreme Court and in October 2009, the Supreme Court of Alabama overturned the trial court's judgment against AstraZeneca and rendered 
judgment in AstraZeneca's favour instead. In January 2010, the Alabama Supreme Court denied the State of Alabama's petition for reconsideration. 
No provision has been made in respect of this matter.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
182 Financial Statements
In October 2009, a Kentucky jury found AstraZeneca liable under the Commonwealth of Kentucky's Consumer Protection statute and Medicaid 
Fraud statute, and awarded $14.72m in compensatory damages and $100 in punitive damages for drugs reimbursed by the Commonwealth of 
Kentucky Medicaid Agency. In January 2010, the trial court rendered a decision awarding statutory penalties of $5.4m. The court also awarded 
pre-judgment interest of 8% beginning in October 2009 until the judgment date, and awarded post-judgment interest of 9% beginning on the 
date of judgment. Interest would accrue only on the compensatory damages amount. AstraZeneca believes the Court made several material and 
reversible errors during the course of the trial and in awarding penalties. AstraZeneca will seek post-judgment relief and will consider filing an 
appeal if necessary. No provision has been made in respect of this matter. 
In May 2009, AstraZeneca reached a settlement to resolve the claims of the states of Nevada and Montana for an immaterial amount which 
has been provided. Those cases have now been dismissed with prejudice. In June 2009, the court presiding over the putative class action in 
Arizona granted AstraZeneca's motion for summary judgment and denied plaintiffs' motion for class certification as moot. The plaintiffs did 
not appeal this ruling, and so that case is final. In November 2009, AstraZeneca reached a settlement to resolve the claims of the State of 
Hawaii for an immaterial amount which has been provided.
The allegations made in respect of the average wholesale price lawsuits described in this section are denied and will be vigorously defended.
340B Class Action Litigation
In August 2005, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant, along with multiple other pharmaceutical manufacturers, in a class action suit filed 
by the County of Santa Clara on behalf of similarly situated California counties and cities that allegedly overpaid for drugs covered by the 
federal  340B' programme. The 340B programme entitles hospitals and clinics that treat a substantial portion of uninsured patients to 
preferential drug pricing for outpatient drugs. A hearing on class certification was held in April 2009, and in May 2009 the court denied class 
certification without prejudice and established Bayer Corporation as a lead-track defendant for summary judgment and trial. AstraZeneca 
intends to vigorously defend these claims.
Verus Pharmaceuticals Litigation
In May 2009, Verus Pharmaceuticals Inc. filed a lawsuit in the New York state court against AstraZeneca AB and its subsidiary, Tika L kemedel AB 
(Tika), alleging breaches of several related collaboration agreements to develop novel paediatric asthma treatments. The complaint purports 
to state claims for fraud, breach of contract, unjust enrichment and conversion. AstraZeneca AB and Tika removed the lawsuit to federal 
court and have moved to dismiss the complaint and intend to vigorously defend this matter. 
Medco qui tam litigation
AstraZeneca has been named in a lawsuit filed in the Philadelphia federal court by a former Medco Health Systems employee, Karl Schumann, 
under the qui tam (whistleblower) provisions of the federal and certain state False Claims Acts. The action was initially filed in September 2003 
but remained under seal until July 2009, at which time AstraZeneca was served with a copy of the amended complaint following the government's 
decision not to intervene in the case. The lawsuit seeks to recover, inter alia, alleged overpayments by federal and state governments for 
Prilosec and Nexium from 1996 to 2007. These overpayments are alleged to be the result of improper payments intended to influence the 
formulary status of Prilosec and Nexium at Medco and its customers. AstraZeneca has moved to dismiss the amended complaint and intends 
to vigorously defend this matter.
Drug importation anti-trust litigation
In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in the Superior Court of California alleging a conspiracy by AstraZeneca 
and approximately 15 other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants to set the price of drugs sold in California at or above the Canadian sales 
price for those same drugs and otherwise restrict the importation of pharmaceuticals into the US. In July 2005, the Court overruled in part 
and sustained in part, without leave to amend, the defendants' motion to dismiss the plaintiffs' third amended complaint in these proceedings. 
The Court overruled the defendants' motion in respect of conspiracy claims but sustained the motion in respect of the California Unfair 
Competition Law claims. In December 2006, the Court granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment and the case was subsequently 
dismissed. Plaintiffs appealed that decision and the Court of Appeal of the State of California affirmed the lower Court's decision. Plaintiffs 
have appealed to the Supreme Court of California, which has decided to hear the appeal. 
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations in the California action and is vigorously defending this matter.
Anti-trust
US secondary wholesalers
In July 2006, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP was named as a defendant, along with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers and 
wholesalers, in a complaint filed by RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. (RxUSA) in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The complaint 
alleges that the defendants violated federal and state anti-trust laws by, amongst other things, allegedly refusing to deal with RxUSA and 
other  secondary wholesalers' in the wholesale pharmaceutical industry. The plaintiff alleges a conspiracy among the manufacturers and 
seeks an injunction and treble damages. AstraZeneca vigorously denies the allegations and in November 2006 filed a motion to dismiss the 
complaint. In September 2009 the Court granted the defendants' motion to dismiss. Plaintiff is appealing the decision. 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
183 Financial Statements
EU Commission Sector Inquiry
AstraZeneca, together with several other companies, was the subject of an EU Commission Sectoral Inquiry into competition in the pharmaceutical 
industry which commenced in January 2008. In the final report, published in July 2009 the Commission recommended improvements to certain 
patent and regulatory processes as well as greater competition law scrutiny in certain areas. The final report does not identify any wrongdoing 
by any individual companies, but the Commission noted that a number of investigations are underway. AstraZeneca is not aware that it is the 
subject of a Commission investigation. The final report noted that the Commission was considering further monitoring of settlement agreements 
between originator and generic companies. Pursuant to this, in January 2010 the Commission requested copies of settlement agreements 
entered into between July 2008 and December 2009 from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will co-operate fully 
with the request.
Other
For a description of other anti-trust-related litigation involving AstraZeneca, see the subsections entitled Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole), Nexium 
(esomeprazole) and Toprol-XL (metoprolol succinate) in this Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices
As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple 
US federal and state investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices. In addition to the investigations described above, the US Attorney's 
Office (USAO) in Philadelphia is directing an investigation involving requests for documents and information relating to contracting and disease 
management programmes with one of the leading national Pharmacy Benefits Managers. AstraZeneca has been co-operating with this 
investigation and currently does not expect the government to take further action. The USAO in Boston is conducting an additional investigation 
with a leading provider of pharmacy services to long-term care facilities. According to a Court and a securities filing, that investigation may 
be the subject of one or more qui tam (whistleblower) complaints that were filed under the False Claims Act. We have been informed by the 
government that they do not intend to pursue the matter as to AstraZeneca.
In addition to the Attorney General investigations regarding Seroquel described above, the Delaware Attorney General's Office is investigating 
certain sales and marketing practices of AstraZeneca, which appear to focus on AstraZeneca's prior interactions with physicians in the State 
of Delaware. In addition, AstraZeneca is providing information in response to two informal requests for information relating to nominal pricing 
under the Medicaid rebate program, one from the US Department of Justice and one from the Attorney General of the State of Michigan. 
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of 
fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) inquiry
In 2007, AstraZeneca received from the SFO a request for documentation about its involvement in the UN Oil for Food programme in Iraq. 
AstraZeneca denies any allegation of illegal or unethical behaviour in its trading relationships with Iraq. AstraZeneca was informed in August 
2009 that following a review of cases undertaken by the SFO, the SFO decided that no further action should be taken against the Company. 
AstraZeneca co-operated fully with the SFO throughout its investigation.
Other actual and potential government investigations
From time to time, AstraZeneca receives enquiries and requests for information from a number of governmental and/or other regulatory 
bodies relating to a range of issues (some, but not all, of which may relate directly to the business of AstraZeneca) and some of which are 
confidential in nature. AstraZeneca seeks to comply with these requests in an appropriate and timely manner and generally on the basis of 
legal advice received. The nature and scope of the investigation in relation to which such enquiries and requests for information have been 
received is not always known to AstraZeneca. Consequently, it is not always possible to determine whether such enquiries and investigations 
relate specifically to AstraZeneca or are merely a means of gathering factual information in the context of an unrelated third-party issue. 
In addition, in the ordinary course of business AstraZeneca self-reports matters which may result in government investigations.
Congressional investigations
In March 2009, AstraZeneca received and responded to an enquiry from the Senate Finance Committee about Seroquel clinical studies conducted 
in the 1990s. In addition, AstraZeneca has responded to enquires from the House Energy and Commerce Committee about heparinised 
saline, found to have been contaminated, that was manufactured in Australia and sold in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong in 2008.
Informal SEC inquiry
In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Croatia, Italy, Russia 
and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present. The SEC's request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors 
or government officials and related internal accounting controls. The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents 
concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors' offices relating 
to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials. AstraZeneca has produced documents in response to this request. It is not currently 
possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
Employment-wage/hour litigation
In September 2006, Marc Brody filed a putative class action lawsuit against AstraZeneca LP on behalf of himself and a class of approximately 
844 pharmaceutical sales specialists employed by the Group in California during the period 19 September 2002 to present. The plaintiff alleges 
he and the proposed class members were unlawfully classified as exempt employees and denied overtime compensation and meal breaks 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
184 Financial Statements
in violation of the California Labour Code. AstraZeneca removed this action to the US District Court for the Central District of California in 
October 2006. The plaintiff filed a first amended complaint in March 2007, for failure to provide meal and rest periods, failure to pay all wages 
earned each pay period, failure to provide accurate wage statements, failure to pay wages in a timely manner upon termination of employment, 
unfair competition and seeking civil penalties. AstraZeneca denies the allegations made by the plaintiff, asserting that the sales specialists 
are properly classified under various exemptions to the wage laws. The plaintiff's lawyers are also pursuing similar claims in lawsuits against 
most of the major pharmaceutical companies.
In separate lawsuits against AstraZeneca, the firms representing the Brody plaintiff filed additional state and wage-and-hour class actions. 
The first case currently captioned Baum v. AstraZeneca, LP was filed under the Pennsylvania Minimum Wage Act and Wage Payment Collection 
Law in the US District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on behalf of two plaintiffs and a putative class of approximately 473 sales 
specialists working in Pennsylvania during the period March 2004 to the present. The second case, Hummel v. AstraZeneca, was filed in the 
US District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of one plaintiff and a putative class of approximately 890 sales specialists 
working in the state of New York during the period June 2001 to the present, claiming the sales specialists were misclassified as exempt 
from overtime pay under New York labour law.
Additionally, in June 2007, the firms representing the Brody plaintiff filed a nationwide collective action based on federal wage-and-hour law 
(FLSA) in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking unpaid overtime compensation and liquidated damages. The lawsuit had 
a potential class size of 8,300 current and former sales specialists employed by the Group in the US during the period June 2004 to the present. 
The parties have negotiated a stipulation of dismissal of this lawsuit and the action has been dismissed with prejudice. The plaintiff's counsel 
purportedly may file a new FLSA action with a different plaintiff in the future.
The US District Court for the Central District of California granted summary judgment in favour of AstraZeneca in the Brody lawsuit, dismissing 
all claims by plaintiff and finding the motion for class certification to be moot. Plaintiff Brody has filed a notice of appeal with the Ninth Circuit 
Court of Appeals in California. Briefing is scheduled to begin in January 2010. Additionally, the US District Court, Western District of 
Pennsylvania, granted summary judgment in favour of AstraZeneca in the Baum matter, dismissing all claims filed by plaintiff Baum and finding 
the motion for class certification to be moot. Plaintiff has filed an appeal with the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; the case has been fully briefed. 
Finally, in Hummel v. AstraZeneca, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York granted AstraZeneca's motion for summary 
judgment and dismissed the case in September 2008. In October 2008, Hummel filed a notice of appeal to the prejudice in exchange for 
AstraZeneca's agreement to waive its costs. The Hummel case has been resolved and dismissed with prejudice.
Tax
Where tax exposures can be quantified, an accrual is made based on best estimates and management's judgement. Details of the 
movements in relation to material tax exposures are discussed below.
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer pricing audits in jurisdictions around the world and, in some cases, is in dispute with the tax authorities. 
The issues under discussion are often complex and can require many years to resolve. Accruals for tax contingencies require management 
to make estimates and judgements with respect to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit, and actual results could vary from these estimates. 
The international tax environment presents increasingly challenging dynamics for the resolution of transfer pricing disputes. These disputes 
usually result in taxable profits being increased in one territory and correspondingly decreased in another. Our balance sheet positions for these 
matters reflect appropriate corresponding relief in the territories affected. Management considers that at present such corresponding relief 
will be available but given the challenges in the international tax environment will keep this aspect under careful review. The total net accrual 
included in the Financial Statements to cover the worldwide exposure to transfer pricing audits is $2,327m, an increase of $699m due to a 
number of new audits, revisions of estimates relating to existing audits, offset by a number of negotiated settlements and exchange rate effects.
Included in the total net accrual are amounts in respect of the following transfer pricing arrangements:
AstraZeneca and HMRC have made a joint referral to the UK Court in respect of transfer pricing between our UK and one of our overseas  >
operations for the years 1996 to date as there continues to be a material difference between the Group's and HMRC's positions. An additional 
referral in respect of controlled foreign company aspects of the same case was made during 2008. Absent a negotiated settlement, litigation 
is set to commence in 2010. 
AstraZeneca has applied for an advance pricing agreement in relation to intra-group transactions between the UK and the US which is  >
being progressed through competent authority proceedings under the relevant double tax treaty.
Management continues to believe that AstraZeneca's positions on all its transfer pricing audits and disputes are robust and that AstraZeneca 
is appropriately provided.
For transfer pricing audits where AstraZeneca and the tax authorities are in dispute, AstraZeneca estimates the potential for reasonably possible 
additional losses above and beyond the amount provided to be up to $575m (2008: $400m); however, management believes that it is unlikely 
that these additional losses will arise. Of the remaining tax exposures, AstraZeneca does not expect material additional losses. It is not 
possible to estimate the timing of tax cash flows in relation to each outcome, however, it is anticipated that a number of significant disputes may 
be resolved over the next one to two years. Included in the provision is an amount of interest of $565m (2008: $365m). Interest is accrued as 
a tax expense.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
185 Financial Statements
26 Leases
Total rentals charged to profit were as follows:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Operating leases 198 206 210
The future minimum lease payments under operating leases that have initial or remaining terms in excess of one year at 31 December 2009 
were as follows:
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Obligations under leases comprise:
No later than one year 132 101 103
Rentals due after more than one year:
Later than five years 131 145 184
Later than one year and not later than five years 208 212 195
339 357 379
471 458 482
27 Statutory and other information
2009 2008 2007
$m $m $m
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates:
Group audit fee 2.4 3.2 3.6
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for other services:
The audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 6.6 7. 1 6.1
Other services pursuant to legislation 2.9 3.3 3.6
Taxation 1.0 0.9 1.1
All other services 0.7 1.7 0.7
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc in respect of the Group's pension schemes:
The audit of subsidiaries' pension schemes 0.5 0.6 0.6
14.1 16.8 15.7
Other services pursuant to legislation includes fees of $2.3m (2008: $2.5m; 2007: $2.7m) in respect of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
Taxation services consist of tax compliance services and, to a lesser extent, tax advice.
All other services includes assurance services in relation to third party compliance with manufacturing and distribution agreements and 
advisory services supporting management in their development of competency and development frameworks for staff.
Related party transactions
The Group had no material related party transactions which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by the users of these 
Financial Statements.
Key management personnel compensation
Key management personnel are defined for the purpose of disclosure under IAS 24  Related Party Disclosures' as the Board of Directors 
and the SET.
2009 2008 2007
$000 $000 $000
Short-term employee benefits 20,784 21,973 31,525
Post-employment benefits 2,080 2,290 2,072
Termination benefits 3,639 - -
Share-based payments 12,547 13,210 11,515
39,050 37 ,473 45,112
Short-term employee benefits in 2007 include one-off employee costs of $11m in relation to the acquisition of MedImmune.
Total remuneration is included within employee costs (see Note 24).
Subsequent events
There were no material subsequent events. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
186 Financial Statements
Principal Subsidiaries
At 31 December 2009 Country
Percentage of voting 
share capital held Principal activity
UK
AstraZeneca UK Limited England 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Treasury Limited England 100 Treasury
Continental Europe
NV AstraZeneca SA Belgium 100 Marketing
AstraZeneca Dunkerque Production SCS France 95 Manufacturing
AstraZeneca SAS France 100 Research, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca GmbH Germany 100 Development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Holding GmbH Germany 100 Manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca SpA Italy 100 Marketing
AstraZeneca Farmaceutica Spain SA Spain 100 Marketing
AstraZeneca AB Sweden 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca BV The Netherlands 100 Marketing
The Americas
AstraZeneca Canada Inc. Canada 100 Research, marketing
AZ Reinsurance Limited Cayman Islands 100 Insurance and reinsurance underwriting
IPR Pharmaceuticals Inc. Puerto Rico 100 Development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca LP US 99 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP US 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
Zeneca Holdings Inc. US 100 Manufacturing, marketing
MedImmune, LLC US 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
Asia, Africa & Australasia
AstraZeneca Pty Limited Australia 100 Development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Co., Limited China 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca KK Japan 80 Manufacturing, marketing
All shares are held indirectly.
The companies and other entities listed above are those whose results or financial position principally affected the figures shown in the Group 
Financial Statements. A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the Company's next annual return filed with the 
Registrar of Companies. The country of registration or incorporation is stated alongside each company. The accounting year ends of subsidiaries 
and associates are 31 December, except for Aptium Oncology, Inc. which, owing to local conditions and to avoid undue delay in the preparation 
of the Financial Statements, is 30 November. AstraZeneca operates through 282 subsidiaries worldwide. Products are manufactured in 
18 countries worldwide and are sold in over 100 countries. The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2009. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
187 Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report to the 
Members of AstraZeneca PLC
We have audited the Parent Company 
Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 set 
out on pages 188 to 192. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and 
UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company's 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company's 
members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor's report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company's members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors' 
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 
122, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Parent Company Financial 
Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit the Parent Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's 
(APB's) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of 
the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of 
financial statements is provided on the APB's 
website, frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion, the Parent Company 
Financial Statements:
Give a true and fair view of the  >
state of the Company's affairs 
as at 31 December 2009.
Have been properly prepared in  >
accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice.
Have been prepared in accordance  >
with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
The part of the Directors' Remuneration  >
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
The information given in the Directors'  >
Report for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Parent Company 
Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of 
the following matters: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Adequate accounting records have not  >
been kept by the Parent Company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us.
The Parent Company Financial  >
Statements and the part of the Directors' 
Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
Certain disclosures of Directors'  >
Remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
We have not received all the information  >
and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group 
Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC 
for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
Jimmy Daboo
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square, London, EC4Y 8BB
28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
188 Financial Statements
AstraZeneca PLC
Registered Number: 2723534
Balance Sheet
At 31 December
2009 2008
Notes $m $m 
Fixed assets
Fixed asset investments 1 25,230 26,727
Current assets
Debtors - other 1 1
Debtors - amounts owed by Group undertakings 8,966 8,217
8,967 8,218
Total assets 34,197 34,945
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Non-trade creditors 2 (252) (414)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3 (1,790) (650)
(2,042) (1,064)
Net current assets 6,925 7, 154
Total assets less current liabilities 32,155 33,881
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3 (283) (283)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3 (8,582) (10,255)
(8,865) (10,538)
Net assets 23,290 23,343
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 6 363 362
Share premium account 4 2,180 2,046
Capital redemption reserve 4 94 94
Other reserves 4 2,922 2,743
Profit and loss account 4 17,731 18,098
Shareholders' funds 5 23,290 23,343
$m means millions of US dollars.
The Financial Statements on pages 188 to 192 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 January 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
David R Brennan Simon Lowth
Director Director AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
189 Financial Statements
Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial instruments as described below, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(UK GAAP). The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union and as issued by the IASB and are presented on pages 128 to 132.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
New accounting standards
The Company has adopted the following accounting standards in the year:
The Amendments to FRS 2  Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings', FRS 6  Acquisitions and Mergers', FRS 20 (IFRS 2)  Amendment 
regarding Vesting Conditions and Cancellations', FRS 28  Corresponding Amounts', FRS 29 (IFRS 7)  Financial Instruments: Disclosures', 
UITF Abstract 42 (IFRIC 9)  Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives' and FRS 26 (IAS 39)  Financial Instruments Recognition and 
Measurement'. The adoptions have no impact on the net results or net assets of the Company.
The Amendments to FRS 20 (IFRS 2)  Share-based Payment - Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions' and FRS 30 
 Heritage Assets' have been issued but not yet adopted by the Company.
Foreign currencies
Profit and loss account items in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at average rates for the relevant accounting periods. Assets 
and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Company Balance Sheet. Exchange gains and losses on loans 
and on short-term foreign currency borrowings and deposits are included within net interest payable. Exchange differences on all other 
transactions, except relevant foreign currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes. Full provision is made for the effects of these differences. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised where it is more likely than not that the amount will be realised in the future. These estimates require judgements 
to be made including the forecast of future taxable income. Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues. Tax benefits are not recognised 
unless the tax positions will probably be sustained. Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess 
whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of that benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and/or litigation.
Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge. All provisions are included in creditors due within one year.
Investments
Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Share-based payments
The issuance by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries of a grant over the Company's options, represents additional capital 
contributions by the Company to its subsidiaries. An additional investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders' 
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant's vesting period.
Financial instruments
Loans and other receivables are held at amortised cost. Long-term loans payable are held at amortised cost.
Litigation
Through the normal course of business, AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to the Company. 
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably. In other cases, appropriate descriptions 
are included. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
190 Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
1 Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries
Shares Loans Total
$m $m $m
Cost and net book value at 1 January 2009 16,188 10,539 26,727
Transfer to current assets - (1,757) (1,757)
Capital contribution - UITF 44 179 - 179
Exchange - 76 76
Amortisation - 5 5
Cost and net book value at 31 December 2009 16,367 8,863 25,230
2 Non-trade creditors
2009 2008
$m $m
Amounts due within one year
Short term borrowings (unsecured) 12 173
Other creditors 226 228
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 14 13
252 414
3 Loans
Repayment 2009 2008
dates $m $m
Amounts due within one year
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (unsecured)
US dollars
Floating Rate Note 2009 - 650
Euros
 4.625% Non-callable bond 2010 1,073 -
 5.625% Non-callable bond 2010 717 -
1,790 650
Amounts due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (unsecured)
US dollars
7.2% Loan 2023 283 283
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (unsecured)
US dollars
5.4% Callable bond 2012 1,744 1,742
5.4% Callable bond 2014 748 748
5.9% Callable bond 2017 1,743 1,742
6.45% Callable bond 2037 2,717 2,716
Euros
4.625% Non-callable bond 2010 - 1,053
5.625% Non-callable bond 2010 - 702
5.125% Non-callable bond 2015 1,072 1,051
Pounds sterling
5.75% Non-callable bond 2031 558 501
8,582 10,255
2009 2008
$m $m
Loans or instalments thereof are repayable:
After five years from balance sheet date 6,373 7,041
From two to five years 2,492 1,742
From one to two years - 1,755
Within one year 1,790 650
Total unsecured 10,655 11,188
All loans are at fixed interest rates. Accordingly the fair values of the loans will change as market rates change. However, since the loans are 
held at amortised cost, changes in interest rates and the credit rating of the Company do not have any effect on the Company's net assets. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
191 Financial Statements
4 Reserves
Share Capital Other Profit and 2009 2008
premium account redemption reserve reserves loss account Total Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
At beginning of year 2,046 94 2,743 18,098 22,981 22,582
Profit for the year - - - 2,658 2,658 3,436
Dividends - - - (3,026) (3,026) (2,767)
Gain on cash flow hedge in anticipation of debt issue - - - 1 1 1
Share-based payment - - 179 - 179 178
Share re-purchases - - - - - (607)
Share premium 134 - - - 134 158
At end of year 2,180 94 2,922 1 7,731 22,927 22,981
Distributable reserves at end of year - - 1,841 1 7,731 19,572 18,787
As permitted by section 408 (4) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
At 31 December 2009, $17,731m (31 December 2008: $16,946m) of the profit and loss account reserve was available for distribution. 
Included in other reserves is a special reserve of $157m, arising on the redenomination of share capital in 1999. 
During 2008, the Company adopted the requirements of UITF Abstract 44  Group and Treasury Share Transactions'. Included within other 
reserves at 31 December 2009 is $1,081m (31 December 2008: $902m) in respect of cumulative share-based payment awards. These 
amounts are not available for distribution.
5 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders' funds
2009 2008
$m $m
At beginning of year 23,343 22,946
Net profit for the financial year 2,658 3,436
Dividends (3,026) (2,767)
Gain on cash flow hedge in anticipation of debt issue 1 1
Share-based payment 179 178
Issue of AstraZeneca PLC Ordinary Shares 135 159
Re-purchase of AstraZeneca PLC Ordinary Shares - (610)
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders' funds (53) 397
Shareholders' funds at end of year 23,290 23,343
Details of dividends paid and payable to shareholders are given in Note 21 to the Group Financial Statements on page 154.
6 Share capital
Authorised Allotted, called-up and fully paid
2009 2009 2008
$m $m $m
Issued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each)  363 363 362
Unissued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each)  237 - -
Redeemable Preference Shares ( 1 each -  50,000) -  - -
 600 363 362
The total authorised number of Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2009 was 2,400,000,000, of which 1,450,958,562 Ordinary Shares were 
in issue.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights and no dividend rights. This class of shares is capable of redemption at 
par at the option of the Company on the giving of seven days' written notice to the registered holder of the shares. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
192 Financial Statements
6 Share capital continued
The movements in share capital during the year can be summarised as follows:
No. of shares
(million) $m
At 1 January 2009 1,447 362
Issues of shares 4 1
At 31 December 2009 1,451 363
Share schemes
A total of 3,477 ,014 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share schemes. Details of movements in the number of Ordinary 
Shares under option are shown in Note 24 to the Group Financial Statements; details of options granted to Directors are shown in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report.
Shares held by subsidiaries
No shares in the Company are held by subsidiaries.
7 Litigation and environmental liabilities
In addition to those matters disclosed below, there are other cases where the Company is named as a party to legal proceedings. These are 
described in Note 25 to the Group Financial Statements.
Exanta (ximelagatran)
The consolidated amended complaint that had alleged claims on behalf of purchasers of the Company's publicly traded securities during the 
period April 2003 to September 2004 under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 was dismissed 
in its entirety. Plaintiffs appealed this decision and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals summarily affirmed the trial court's dismissal of the 
action. Plaintiffs have not appealed the Second Circuit Court of Appeals' decision. This litigation is therefore concluded.
Informal SEC inquiry
In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Italy, Croatia, Russia 
and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present. The SEC's request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors 
or government officials and related internal accounting controls. The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents 
concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors' offices relating 
to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials. AstraZeneca has produced documents in response to this request. It is not currently 
possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
EU Commission Sector Inquiry
AstraZeneca, together with several other companies, was the subject of an EU Commission Sectoral Inquiry into competition in the pharmaceutical 
industry which commenced in January 2008. In the final report, published in July 2009, the Commission recommended improvements to certain 
patent and regulatory processes as well as greater competition law scrutiny in certain areas. The final report does not identify any wrongdoing 
by any individual companies, but the Commission noted that a number of investigations are underway. AstraZeneca is not aware that it is the 
subject of a Commission investigation. The final report noted that the Commission was considering further monitoring of settlement agreements 
between originator and generic companies. Pursuant to this, in January 2010 the Commission requested copies of settlement agreements 
entered into between July 2008 and December 2009 from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will co-operate fully 
with the request.
Other
The Company has guaranteed the external borrowing of a subsidiary, in the amount of $288m.
8 Statutory and other information
There are no employees of the Company (2008: nil). The Directors of the Company were paid by another Group company in 2009 and 2008. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
193 Financial Statements
Group Financial Record
For the year ended 31 December
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue and profits
Revenue 23,950 26,475 29,559 31,601 32,804 
Cost of sales (5,356) (5,559) (6,419) (6,598) (5,775)
Distribution costs (211) (226) (248) (291) (298)
Research and development (3,379) (3,902) (5,162) (5,179) (4,409)
Selling, general and administrative costs (8,695) (9,096) (10,364) (10,913) (11,332)
Other operating income and expense 193 524 728 524 553
Operating profit 6,502 8,216 8,094 9,144 11,543
Finance income 665 888 959 854 462
Finance expense (500) (561) (1,070) (1,317) (1,198)
Profit before tax 6,667 8,543 7,983 8,681 10,807
Taxation (1,943) (2,480) (2,356) (2,551) (3,263)
Profit for the period 4,724 6,063 5,627 6,130 7,544
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (1,122) 931 342 (1,906) (54)
Total comprehensive income for the period 3,602 6,994 5,969 4,224 7,490
Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 4,706 6,043 5,595 6,101 7,521 
Minority interests 18 20 32 29 23 
Earnings per share
Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share (basic) $2.91 $3.86 $3.74 $4.20 $5.19 
Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share (diluted) $2.91 $3.85 $3.73 $4.20 $5.19 
Dividends $1.025 $1.410 $1.750 $1.900 $2.09 
Return on revenues
Operating profit as a percentage of revenues 27.2% 31.0% 27.4% 28.9% 35.2% 
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 85.6 92.7 15.6 13.5 19.9 
At 31 December
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
$m $m $m $m $m
Statement of Financial Position
Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 9,697 11,657 29,649 29,240 29,422
Other investments 306 146 299 605 446
Deferred tax assets 1,117 1,220 1,044 1,236 1,292
Current assets 13,720 16,909 16,996 15,869 23,760
Total assets 24,840 29,932 47,988 46,950 54,920
Current liabilities (6,839) (9,447) (15,218) (13,415) (17,640)
Non-current liabilities (4,310) (5,069) (17,855) (1 7,475) (16,459)
Net assets 13,691 15,416 14,915 16,060 20,821
Share capital 395 383 364 362 363
Reserves attributable to equity holders 13,202 14,921 14,414 15,550 20,297
Minority equity interests 94 112 137 148 161
Total equity and reserves 13,691 15,416 14,915 16,060 20,821
For the year ended 31 December
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
$m $m $m $m $m
Cash flows
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from:
Operating activities 6,743 7,693 7,510 8,742 11,739
Investing activities (1,182) (272) (14,887) (3,896) (2,476)
Financing activities (4,572) (5,366) 6,051 (6,362) (3,629)
989 2,055 (1,326) (1,516) 5,634
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges
For the purpose of computing these ratios, earnings consist of the income from continuing ordinary activities before taxation of Group companies 
and income received from companies owned 50% or less, plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all indebtedness, 
amortisation of debt discount and expense and that portion of rental expense representative of the interest factor. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
194 Additional Information 
Additional Information
Development Pipeline 196
Shareholder Information 199
Corporate Information 204
Cross-reference to Form 20-F 205
Glossary 206
Index 208 195
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
Additional Information  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
196 Additional Information 
Estimated filing date
Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA
Phase I projects
Cardiovascular AZD6482 PI3K-beta inhibitor thrombosis
AZD4017 11BHSD inhibitor diabetes/obesity
AZD6714 GK activator diabetes
AZD8329 11BHSD inhibitor diabetes/obesity
AZD7687 diacylglycerol acyl transferase -1 inhibitor diabetes/obesity 
Gastrointestinal AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist GERD
AZD2516 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist GERD
Infection MEDI-534 RSV/PIV-3 vaccine RSV/PIV prophylaxis
MEDI-560 PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation
MEDI-550 pandemic influenza virus vaccine pandemic influenza vaccine
MEDI-557 YTE - extended half-life RSV MAb RSV prophylaxis
MEDI-559 RSV vaccine RSV prophylaxis
AZD5847 Oxazolidinone anti-bacterial inhibitor tuberculosis
AZD9742 BTGT4 IV MRSA
CEF104
1#
beta lactamase inhibitor/cephalosporin MRSA
Neuroscience AZD3241 myeloperoxidase (MPO) inhibitor Parkinson's disease
AZD6280 GABA receptor subtype partial agonist anxiety
AZD2516 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist chronic neuropathic pain
AZD3043
#
GABA-A receptor modulator short acting sedative and anaesthetic 
AZD8418 glutamatergic modulator schizophrenia
AZD2423 chemokine antagonist chronic neuropathic pain 
Oncology AZD4769 EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours
AZD8931 erbB kinase inhibitor solid tumours
AZD7762 CHK1 kinase inhibitor solid tumours
AZD8330
#
 (ARRY-424704) MEK inhibitor solid tumours
CAT-8015 recombinant immunotoxin haematological malignancies
AZD8055 TOR kinase inhibitor range of tumours
MEDI-573 IGF solid tumours
MEDI-575 PDGFR-alpha solid tumours
AZD1480 JAK2 inhibitor myeloproliferative diseases /solid tumours
AZD4547 FGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours
MEDI-547
#
EphA2 conjugate solid tumours
AZD2014 MTOR inhibitor solid tumours
AZD6244  
(ARRY-142886)/MK2206
#
MEK/AKT inhibitor solid tumours
Respiratory & 
Inflammation
CAM-3001
#
anti-GM-CSFR rheumatoid arthritis
AZD8566 CCR5 COPD
AZD8075 CRTh2 antagonist asthma/COPD
AZD5985 CRTh2 antagonist asthma/COPD 
AZD2551 protease inhibitor COPD
AZD5423 iSEGRA COPD
AZD5122 CXCR2 COPD
AZD8683 Muscarinic antagonist COPD
AZD5069 CXCR2 COPD
MEDI-546
#
anti-IFNaR MAb scleroderma
1 
Subject to expiry or termination of the applicable waiting period under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
# 
Partnered product.
Development Pipeline 
at 28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
197 Additional Information  
Estimated filing date
Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA
Phase II projects
Cardiovascular AZD0837 direct thrombin inhibitor thrombosis
AZD6370 GK activator diabetes
AZD1656 GK activator diabetes 2015 2015
Gastrointestinal Lesogaberan (AZD3355) GABA
B
 agonist GERD 2013 2013
AZD1386 vanilloid receptor antagonist GERD
Infection CytoFab
 #
anti-TNF-alpha polyclonal antibody severe sepsis 2014 2014
AZD7295 NS 5A inhibitor hepatitis C 2015 2015
MEDI-3250 flu vaccine (quadravalent) seasonal influenza
CAZ104
1#
beta lactamase inhibitor/cephalosporin serious infections 2012 n/a
Neuroscience AZD3480
#
Alpha4/beta2 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist ADHD
AZD6765 NMDA receptor antagonist MDD 2013 2013
AZD2327 enkephalinergic receptor modulator anxiety and depression
AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist chronic neuropathic pain
AZD8529 glutamatergic modulator schizophrenia
NKTR-118
#
oral peripherally-acting opioid antagonist opioid-induced constipation 2013 2013
TC-5214
#
nicotinic ion channel blocker MDD 2014 2012
TC-5619
#
 Alpha7 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist cognitive disorders in schizophrenia
AZD7268 enkephalinergic receptor modulator depression/anxiety
AZD1446
#
Alpha4/beta2 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist  Alzheimer's disease/ADHD
Oncology Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor NSCLC 2013 2013
AZD6244
#
 (ARRY-142886) MEK inhibitor solid tumours 2014 2014
Olaparib PARP inhibitor gBRCA breast cancer 2012 2012
Olaparib PARP inhibitor serious ovarian cancer 2014 2014
AZD1152 aurora kinase inhibitor haematological malignancies 2012 2012
Respiratory & 
Inflammation
AZD1981 CRTh2 receptor antagonist asthma/COPD
MEDI-528
#
anti-IL-9 antibody asthma
CAT-354 anti-IL-13 antibody asthma
AZD9668 neutrophil elastase inhibitor COPD 2014 2014
AZD1236 matrix metallo-proteinase inhibitor COPD
AZD3199 iLABA asthma/COPD
MEDI-563
#
anti-IL-5R antibody asthma
MEDI-545
#
anti-IFN-alpha antibody SLE, myositis
AZD9164 LAMA COPD
AZD8848 Toll-like receptor-7 agonist asthma
Estimated filing date
Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA
Phase III projects
Cardiovascular Onglyza
 # 
DPP-4 inhibitor diabetes Launched Launched
Brilinta/Brilique ADP receptor antagonist arterial thrombosis Filed Filed
Certriad
#
statin + fibrate fixed combination dyslipidaemia Filed
Dapagliflozin
#
SGLT2 inhibitor diabetes Q4 2010 Q4 2010
2
Infection Motavizumab
#
humanised MAb binding to RSV F protein RSV prevention Q4 2010 Filed 
Ceftaroline
#
affinity to penicillin-binding proteins pneumonia/skin infections Q3 2010 n/a
Neuroscience Vimovo
#
naproxen + esomeprazole signs and symptoms of OA, RA 
and ankylosing spondylitis 
Filed Filed
Oncology Zactima VEGFR/EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor 
with RET kinase activity
medullary thyroid cancer - orphan Q3 2010 Q3 2010
Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor CRC Q4 2010 Q4 2010
Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor recurrent glioblastoma - orphan Q4 2010 Q4 2010
Zibotentan (ZD4054) endothelin A receptor antagonist castrate resistant prostate cancer H1 2011 H1 2011
1 
Subject to expiry or termination of the applicable waiting period under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
2 
Timing subject to CV event rate.
# 
Partnered product.
Estimated filing date
Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA
Phase II line extensions
Infection Motavizumab
#
humanised MAb binding to RSV F protein early and late treatment of RSV 
in paediatrics >1 yr
2015 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
198 Additional Information 
Estimated filing date
Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA
Phase III line extensions
Cardiovascular Crestor statin outcomes in subjects with elevated CRP Filed Filed
Onglyza
 
/ 
metformin FDC
#
DPP-IV inhibitor + biguanide FDC diabetes Q3 2010 Filed
Dapagliflozin/
metformin FDC
#
SGLT2 inhibitor + biguanide FDC diabetes H2 2011 H2 2011
Gastrointestinal Nexium proton pump inhibitor peptic ulcer bleeding Launched Filed
Axanum proton pump inhibitor + low dose aspirin FDC low dose aspirin associated peptic ulcer Q3 2010
3
Filed
Infection FluMist live, attenuated, intranasal influenza virus vaccine influenza Filed Launched
MEDI-3414 H1N1 influenza pandemic flu prevention Launched
Neuroscience Seroquel D
2
/5HT
2
 antagonist bipolar maintenance Launched Launched
Seroquel XR D
2
/5HT
2
 antagonist MDD Filed Approved 
Seroquel XR D
2
/5HT
2
 antagonist GAD Filed Filed 
Oncology Iressa EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor NSCLC Launched TBD
Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist 1st line advanced breast cancer
Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist high dose (500mg) 2nd line 
advanced breast cancer
Filed Filed
3 
Previously, submission was indication only. Now covers fixed-dose combination.
# 
Partnered product.
Therapy area Compound Areas under investigation
Discontinued projects
Cardiovascular AZD1305 arrhythmias
Infection AZD9639 RSV treatment
CMV Vaccine cytomegalovirus
Neuroscience AZD5904 multiple sclerosis
AZD6088 chronic neuropathic pain
AZD1386 chronic neuropathic pain
AZD7325 anxiety
AZD4694 Alzheimer's disease PET diagnostic
AZD1940 nociceptive and neuropathic pain
AZD2624 schizophrenia
Oncology Saracatinib solid tumours
Zactima NSCLC
AZD6918 solid tumours
MEDI-538 leukaemia/lymphoma
AZD4877 haematological malignancies
Respiratory & 
Inflammation
AZD9056 RA
AZD5672 RA
During 2009, AstraZeneca reclassified into pre-clinical development, the EBV vaccine which appeared in Phase II of the Development Pipeline 
table in the 2008 Annual Report and Form 20-F Information. AstraZeneca has out-licensed the development of the pneumococcal vaccine 
which appeared in Phase I of the Development Pipeline table in the 2008 Annual Report and Form 20-F Information.
Therapy area Compound Areas under investigation
Discontinued line extensions
Oncology Faslodex adjuvant
Respiratory & 
Inflammation
Symbicort pMDI EU asthma
Symbicort pMDI EU COPD
Unit Dose Budesonide asthma
As disclosure of compound information is balanced by the business need to maintain confidentiality, information in relation to some compounds 
listed here has not been disclosed at this time.
Compounds in development are displayed by phase. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
199 Additional Information  
Shareholder Information
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Ordinary Shares in issue - millions
At year end 1,581 1,532 1,457 1,447 1,451
Weighted average for year 1,617 1,564 1,495 1,453 1,448
Stock market price - per Ordinary Share
Highest (pence) 2837 3529 2984 2888 2947
Lowest (pence) 1861 2574 2093 1748 2147
At year end (pence) 2829 2744 2164 2807 2910.5
Percentage analysis at 31 December 2009 of issued share capital
By size of account 2009
No. of shares %
1 - 250 0.5
251 - 500 0.7
501 - 1,000 0.8
1,001 - 5,000 1.1
5,001 - 10,000 0.2
10,001 - 50,000 1.1
50,001 - 1,000,000 13.0
Over 1,000,000
1
82.6
Issued share capital 100.0
1 
Includes VPC and ADR holdings.
At 31 December 2009, the Company had 125,363 registered holders of 1,450,958,562 Ordinary Shares. At 31 December 2009, there were 
approximately 141,000 holders of ADRs representing 5.39% of the issued share capital and 158,000 holders of shares held under the VPC 
Services Agreement representing 18.52% of the issued share capital. The ADRs, each of which is equivalent to one Ordinary Share, 
are issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan).
AstraZeneca PLC
Since April 1999, following the merger of Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for trading in the shares of the Company are the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE), the Stockholm Stock Exchange (SSE) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The table below sets out, for the 
four quarters of 2008 and for the first two quarters and last six months of 2009 the reported high and low share prices of the Company, on 
the following bases:
For shares listed on the LSE the reported high and low middle market closing quotations are derived from the Daily Official List. >
For shares listed on the SSE the high and low closing sales prices are as stated in the Official List. >
For ADSs listed on the NYSE the reported high and low sales prices are as reported by Dow Jones (ADR quotations). >
Ordinary LSE ADS Ordinary SSE
1
High Low High Low High Low
(pence) (pence) (US$) (US$) (SEK) (SEK)
2008 - Quarter 1 2345.0 1748.0 45.70 35.50 296.5 211.5
- Quarter 2 2289.0 1981.0 44.57 39.36 268.0 235.5
- Quarter 3 2766.0 2130.0 49.85 43.42 321.5 255.5
- Quarter 4 2888.0 2075.0 44.76 34.10 340.5 253.5
2009 - Quarter 1 2947.0 2147.0 41.60 30.24 331.0 261.5
- Quarter 2 2728.0 2276.0 45.01 33.40 351.0 279.5
- July 2878.0 2644.0 47.54 43.01 356.0 336.0
- August 2869.0 2722.5 47.31 45.24 338.0 326.0
- September 2856.0 2691.0 46.02 43.91 333.0 305.0
- October 2830.0 2742.0 46.19 43.64 323.1 308.0
- November 2778.0 2690.5 46.38 44.34 319.0 310.1
- December 2930.0 2753.0 47.00 45.35 339.5 315.0
1 
Principally held in bearer form.
During 2009, there were no shares re-purchased under the Company's share re-purchase programme. The total number of shares 
re-purchased to date since the beginning of the re-purchase programme in 1999 is 376.3 million Ordinary Shares (at an average price 
of 2661 pence per Ordinary Share) for a consideration, including expenses, of $18,099 million. The excess of the consideration over the 
nominal value was charged against the profit and loss account reserve. Ordinary Shares issued in respect of share schemes totalled 3.5 million. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
200 Additional Information 
In 1999, in connection with the merger between Astra and Zeneca through which the Company was formed, the Company's share capital 
was redenominated in US dollars. On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, credited as fully paid on the 
basis of one dollar share for each Zeneca share then held. This was achieved by a reduction of capital under section 135 of the Companies 
Act 1985. Upon the reduction of capital becoming effective, all issued and unissued Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum arising as 
a result of the share cancellation credited to a special reserve, which was converted into US dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing on the 
record date. This US dollar reserve was then applied in paying up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
At the same time as the US dollar shares were issued, the Company issued 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, at par. 
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights, no dividend rights and are capable of redemption, at par, at the option 
of the Company on the giving of seven days' written notice to the registered holder of the Redeemable Preference Shares.
A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were issued to Astra shareholders who accepted the merger offer before the final closing date, 
21 May 1999. The Company received acceptances from Astra shareholders representing 99.6% of Astra's shares and the remaining 0.4% 
was acquired in 2000, for cash.
Major shareholdings
At 28 January 2010, the following had disclosed an interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company in accordance with the 
requirements of rule 5.1.2 of the UK Listing Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
Date of Percentage
disclosure of issued
Shareholder Number of shares to Company
1
share capital
BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 Dec 2009 6.94%
Invesco Limited 72,776,277 6 Oct 2009 5.01%
Axa SA 56,991,117 3 Feb 2009 3.92%
Investor AB 51,587,810 3 Feb 2009 3.55%
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 67,398,874 3 Feb 2009 4.64%
1 
Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased. No requirement to notify the 
Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level. The percentage level may 
increase (on the cancellation of shares following a re-purchase of shares under the Company's share re-purchase programme) or decrease (on the issue of new shares 
under any of the Company's share plans). 
No other person held a notifiable interest in shares, comprising 3% or more of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
Changes in the percentage ownership held by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below. Major shareholders do not 
have different voting rights.
Percentage of issued share capital
Shareholder 28 Jan 2010 29 Jan 2009 31 Jan 2008 31 Jan 2007
BlackRock, Inc. 6.94% - - -
Invesco Limited 5.01% - - -
Axa SA 3.92% 4.90% 4.87% -
Investor AB 3.55% 4.38% 4.36% 4.14%
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4.64% 4.09% 4.06% 3.43%
Capital Research and Management Company - 4.92% 4.89% 11.70%
Wellington Management Co., LLP - 4.18% 4.16% 3.95%
Barclays PLC - 4.26% 4.24% 4.03%
ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by JPMorgan, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE. At 28 January 2010, the proportion of Ordinary 
Shares represented by ADSs was 5.47% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 28 January 2010:
In the US 781 >
Total  124,757 >
Number of record holders of ADRs at 28 January 2010:
In the US 2,298 >
Total  2,319 >
So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned nor controlled by one or more corporations or by any government. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
201 Additional Information  
At 28 January 2010, the total amount of the Company's voting securities owned by Directors and officers of the Company was:
Percentage
Title of class Amount owned of class
Ordinary Shares 300,474 0.02%
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in the control of the Company.
Related party transactions
During the period 1 January 2010 to 28 January 2010, there were no transactions, loans, or proposed transactions between the Company 
and any related parties which were material to either the Company or the related party, or which were unusual in their nature or conditions 
(see also Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 185).
Options to purchase securities from registrant or subsidiaries
(a) At 28 January 2010, options outstanding to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were:
Number of shares
Subscription price
pence Normal expiry date
63,251,333 1882 - 3487 2010 - 2019
The weighted average subscription price of options outstanding at 28 January 2010 was 2474 pence. All options were granted under 
Company employee share schemes.
(b) Included in paragraph (a) are options granted to Directors and officers of the Company as follows:
Number of shares
Subscription price
pence Normal expiry date
2,324,523 1882 - 3487 2010 - 2019
(c)  Included in paragraph (b) are options granted to individually named Directors. Details of these option holdings at 31 December 2009 are 
shown in the Share options table on page 118.
During the period 1 January 2010 to 28 January 2010, no Director exercised any options.
Dividend payments
For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE and the SSE and ADRs listed on the NYSE, the record date for the second interim dividend for 2009, 
payable on 15 March 2010, is 5 February 2010 and the ex-dividend date is 3 February 2010.
The record date for the first interim dividend for 2010, payable on 13 September 2010, is 6 August 2010.
Future dividends will normally be paid as follows:
First interim: Announced in July and paid in September.
Second interim: Announced in January and paid in March.
Shareview
The Company's shareholders with internet access may visit the website, shareview.co.uk, and register their details to create a portfolio. 
Shareview is a free and secure on-line service from the Company's registrars, Equiniti Limited, which gives access to shareholdings, 
including balance movements, indicative share prices and information about recent dividends.
ShareGift
The Company welcomes and values all of its shareholders, no matter how many or how few shares they own. However, shareholders who 
have only a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, either now or at some stage in the future, may wish to 
consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme. One feature of the scheme is that 
there is no gain or loss for UK capital gains tax purposes on gifts of shares through ShareGift, and it may now also be possible to obtain UK 
income tax relief on the donation. Further information about ShareGift can be found on its website, sharegift.org, or by contacting ShareGift 
on 020 7930 3737 or at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH. ShareGift is administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 
registered charity number 1052686. More information about the UK tax position on gifts of shares to ShareGift can be obtained from HM 
Revenue & Customs, whose website address is hmrc.gov.uk. 
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Company supplies unclaimed dividend data to the Unclaimed Assets Register (UAR), which provides investors who have lost track of 
shareholdings with an opportunity to search the UAR's database of unclaimed financial assets on payment of a small, fixed fee. The UAR 
donates part of the search fee to charity. The UAR can be contacted on 0870 241 1713 or at PO Box 9501, Nottingham NG80 1WD. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
202 Additional Information 
Results
Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca in 
respect of the first three months of 2010 will 
be published on 29 April 2010 and results in 
respect of the first six months of 2010 will be 
published on 29 July 2010.
Documents on display
The Memorandum of Association of the 
Company and Articles and other documents 
concerning the Company which are referred 
to in this Annual Report may be inspected 
at the Company's registered office at 
15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN.
Taxation for US residents
The following summary of the material UK 
and US federal income tax consequences 
of ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs 
held as capital assets by US resident 
shareholders is based on current UK 
and US federal income tax law, including 
the US/UK double taxation convention 
relating to income and capital gains, 
which entered into force on 31 March 2003 
(the Convention). This summary does not 
describe all of the tax consequences that 
may be relevant in light of the US resident 
shareholder's particular circumstances. 
US resident shareholders are urged to 
consult their tax advisers regarding US 
federal income tax consequences of the 
ownership and disposition of Ordinary 
Shares and ADRs in their particular 
circumstances. This discussion is also 
based in part on representations of 
JPMorgan as depositary for ADRs and 
assumes that each obligation in the deposit 
agreement among the Company, JPMorgan 
and the holders from time to time of 
ADRs and any related agreements will be 
performed in accordance with its terms. The 
US Treasury has expressed concerns that 
parties to whom ADRs are released before 
shares are delivered to the depositary 
(pre-release), or intermediaries in the chain 
of ownership between holders and the 
issuer of the security underlying the ADRs, 
may be taking actions that are inconsistent 
with the claiming, by US holders of ADRs, 
of foreign tax credits for US federal income 
tax purposes. Such actions would also be 
inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced 
tax rate, described below, applicable to 
dividends received by certain non-corporate 
US resident shareholders. Accordingly, 
the availability of the reduced tax rate for 
dividends received by certain non-corporate 
US resident shareholders could be affected 
by actions that may be taken by parties to 
whom ADRs are pre-released.
This discussion assumes that we are not, 
and will not become, a passive foreign 
investment company, as discussed below.
UK and US income taxation 
of dividends
The UK does not currently impose a 
withholding tax on dividends paid by a UK 
company, such as the Company. 
For US federal income tax purposes, 
distributions paid by the Company to a US 
resident shareholder are included in gross 
income as foreign source ordinary dividend 
income to the extent of the Company's 
current or accumulated earnings and profits, 
calculated in accordance with US federal 
income tax principles. Because the 
Company does not maintain calculations 
of its earning and profits under US federal 
income tax principles, it is expected that 
distributions generally will be reported to 
US resident shareholders as dividends. The 
amount of the dividend will be the US dollar 
amount received by the depositary for US 
resident holders of ADRs (or in the case of 
Ordinary Shares, the US dollar value of the 
pounds sterling payments made, determined 
at the spot pound sterling/US dollar rate on 
the date the dividend is received by the US 
resident shareholders, regardless of whether 
the dividend is converted into US dollars), 
and it will not be eligible for the dividends 
received deduction generally available to 
US corporations. If the dividend is converted 
into US dollars on the date of receipt, US 
resident holders of Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs generally should not be required to 
recognise foreign currency gains or losses 
in respect of the dividend income. They may 
have foreign currency gain or loss if the 
amount of such dividend is not converted 
into US dollars on the date of its receipt.
Subject to applicable limitations and the 
discussion above regarding concerns 
expressed by the US Treasury, dividends 
received by certain non-corporate US 
resident holders of Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs in taxable years beginning before 
1 January 2011 may be subject to US 
federal income tax at a maximum rate 
of 15%. US resident shareholders should 
consult their own tax advisers to determine 
whether they are subject to any special rules 
which may limit their ability to be taxed at 
this favourable rate.
Taxation on capital gains
Under the Convention, each contracting 
state may, in general, tax capital gains in 
accordance with the provisions of its 
domestic law. Under present UK law, 
individuals who are neither resident nor 
ordinarily resident in the UK, and companies 
which are not resident in the UK, will not be 
liable for UK tax on capital gains made on 
the disposal of their Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs, unless such Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs are held in connection with a trade, 
profession or vocation carried on in the UK 
through a branch or agency.
A US resident shareholder will generally 
recognise US source capital gains or losses 
for US federal income tax purposes on the 
sale or exchange of Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs in an amount equal to the difference 
between the US dollar amount realised and 
such holder's US dollar adjusted tax basis 
in the Ordinary Shares or ADRs. US resident 
shareholders should consult their own tax 
advisers about the treatment of capital 
gains, which may be taxed at lower rates 
than ordinary income for non-corporate US 
resident shareholders and capital losses, the 
deductibility of which may be limited.
Passive Foreign Investment Company 
(PFIC) rules
We believe that we were not a PFIC for US 
federal income tax purposes for the year 
ended 31 December 2009, and do not 
expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. 
However, since PFIC status depends on the 
composition of our income and assets and 
the market value of our assets (including, 
among others, less than 25% owned equity 
investments) from time to time, there can be 
no assurance that we will not be considered 
a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were 
treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during 
which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were held, 
certain adverse tax consequences could 
apply to US resident shareholders.
UK inheritance tax
Under the current Double Taxation (Estates) 
Convention (the Estate Tax Convention) 
between the US and the UK, Ordinary 
Shares or ADRs held by an individual 
shareholder who is domiciled for the 
purposes of the Estate Tax Convention 
in the US, and is not for the purposes of 
the Estate Tax Convention a national of 
the UK, will generally not be subject to UK 
inheritance tax on the individual's death or 
on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares 
or ADRs during the individual's lifetime, 
provided that any applicable US federal 
gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless 
the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part 
of the business property of a permanent 
establishment of the individual in the UK or, 
in the case of a shareholder who performs 
independent personal services, pertain to 
a fixed base situated in the UK. Where the 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been placed 
in trust by a settlor who, at the time of 
settlement, was a US resident shareholder, 
the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will generally 
not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless 
the settlor, at the time of settlement, was not 
domiciled in the US and was a UK national.  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
203 Additional Information  
In the exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the 
Estate Tax Convention generally provides for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
UK stamp duty reserve tax and stamp duty
A 1.5% stamp duty reserve tax is payable upon the deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection with the creation of, but not subsequent 
dealing in, ADRs. A 0.5% stamp duty is payable on all purchases of Ordinary Shares.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders
There are no governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the UK restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of 
dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs. 
There are no limitations under English law, the Articles or the Company's Memorandum of Association on the right of non-resident or foreign 
owners to be the registered holders of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered holders of notes 
or debentures of Zeneca Wilmington Inc. or the Company.
Exchange rates
For the periods up to April 1999, Astra accounted for and reported its results in Swedish kronor, whereas Zeneca accounted for and reported 
its results in pounds sterling. Consistent with AstraZeneca's decision to publish its Financial Statements in US dollars, the financial information 
in this document has been translated from Swedish kronor and pounds sterling into US dollars at the following applicable exchange rates:
SEK/US$ US$/GBP
Average rates (profit and loss account, cash flow)
1995 7 .1100 1.5796
1996 6.7000 1.5525
1997 7.6225 1.6386
1998 7.9384 1.6603
1999 8.2189 1.6247
End of year spot rates (balance sheet)
1995 6.6500 1.5500
1996 6.8400 1.6900
1997 7.8500 1.6600
1998 8.0400 1.6600
1999 8.5130 1.6185
The following information relating to average and spot exchange rates used by AstraZeneca is provided for convenience:
SEK/US$ US$/GBP
Average rates (income statement, cash flow)
2007 6.7692 2.0003
2008 6.5130 1.8728
2009 7.6552 1.5496
End of year spot rates (balance sheet)
2007 6.4051 1.9932
2008 7.77 40 1.4437
2009 7. 1636 1.6072 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
204 Additional Information 
Corporate 
Information 
History and development 
of the Company
AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in 
England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under 
the Companies Act 1985. It is a public limited 
company domiciled in the UK. The Company's 
registered number is 2723534 and its 
registered office is at 15 Stanhope Gate, 
London W1K 1LN (telephone +44 (0)20 
7304 5000). From February 1993 until 
April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca 
Group PLC. On 6 April 1999, the Company 
changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
The Company was formed when the 
pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty 
chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical 
Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. 
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty 
chemical business. Also in 1999, the Company 
merged with Astra of Sweden. In 2000, 
it demerged the agrochemical business and 
merged it with the similar agribusiness of 
Novartis AG to form a new company called 
Syngenta AG.
In 2007 , the Group acquired MedImmune, 
a biologics and vaccines business based 
in the US.
The Group owns and operates numerous 
R&D, production and marketing facilities 
worldwide. Its corporate headquarters are 
at 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN.
Articles
Objects
The Company's objects were originally set out 
in its Memorandum of Association. However, 
by operation of law, these objects are now 
deemed to be provisions of the Articles. 
As is typical of companies registered in 
England and Wales, the Company's objects 
are broad and wide-ranging and include 
manufacturing, distributing and trading 
pharmaceutical products.
Any amendment to the Articles requires 
the approval of shareholders by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of 
the Company.
Directors
The Board has the authority to manage 
the business of the Company, for example, 
through powers to allot and re-purchase 
its shares, subject where required to 
shareholder resolutions. Subject to certain 
exceptions, Directors do not have power to 
vote at Board meetings on matters in which 
they have a material interest.
The quorum for meetings of the Board is 
a majority of the full Board, of whom at least 
four must be Non-Executive Directors. In the 
absence of a quorum, the Directors do not 
have power to determine compensation 
arrangements for themselves or any member 
of the Board.
The Board may exercise all the powers of 
the Company to borrow money. Variation 
of these borrowing powers would require 
the passing of a special resolution of the 
Company's shareholders.
All Directors must retire from office at the 
Company's AGM each year and may present 
themselves for re-election. Directors are 
not prohibited, upon reaching a particular 
age, from submitting themselves for election 
or re-election.
Within two months of the date of their 
appointment, Directors are required to 
beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an 
aggregate nominal amount of $125, which 
currently represents at least 500 shares.
Rights, preferences and restrictions 
attaching to shares
The share capital of the Company is divided 
into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 
50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares. 
The Ordinary Shares represent 99.9% 
and the Redeemable Preference Shares 
represent 0.01% of the Company's total 
share capital (these percentages have 
been calculated by reference to the closing 
mid-point US$/GBP exchange rate on 
31 December as published in the London 
edition of the Financial Times newspaper). 
The rights and restrictions attaching to 
the Redeemable Preference Shares differ 
from those attaching to Ordinary Shares 
as follows:
The Redeemable Preference Shares  >
carry no rights to receive dividends.
The holders of Redeemable Preference  >
Shares have no rights to receive notices 
of, attend or vote at general meetings 
except in certain limited circumstances. 
They have one vote for every 50,000 
Redeemable Preference Shares held.
On a distribution of assets of the Company,  >
on a winding-up or other return of capital 
(subject to certain exceptions), the holders 
of Redeemable Preference Shares have 
priority over the holders of Ordinary 
Shares to receive the capital paid up 
on those shares.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies  >
Act 2006, the Company has the right 
to redeem the Redeemable Preference 
Shares at any time on giving not less 
than seven days' written notice. 
Action necessary to change the rights 
of shareholders
In order to vary the rights attached to any 
class of shares, the consent in writing of 
the holders of three quarters in nominal 
value of the issued shares of that class or 
the sanction of an extraordinary resolution 
passed at a general meeting of such holders 
is required.
General meetings
AGMs and other general meetings, as from 
time to time may be required, where a special 
resolution is to be passed or a Director is to 
be appointed require 21 clear days' notice to 
shareholders. Subject to the Companies Act 
2006, other general meetings require 14 clear 
days' notice.
For all general meetings, a quorum of 
two shareholders present in person or by 
proxy, and entitled to vote on the business 
transacted, is required.
Shareholders and their duly appointed 
proxies and corporate representatives are 
entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
Limitations on the rights to own shares
There are no limitations on the rights to 
own shares.
Property
Substantially all of our properties are held 
freehold, free of material encumbrances 
and we believe that such properties are fit 
for their purpose.  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
205 Additional Information  
Cross-reference to Form 20-F
The information in this document that is referenced on this page is included in AstraZeneca's Form 20-F for 2009 (2009 Form 20-F) and is filed 
with the SEC. The 2009 Form 20-F is the only document intended to be incorporated by reference into any filings by AstraZeneca under the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. References to major headings include all information under such major headings, including subheadings. 
References to subheadings include only the information contained under such subheadings. Graphs are not included unless specifically identified. 
The 2009 Form 20-F has not been approved or disapproved by the SEC, nor has the SEC passed comment upon the accuracy or adequacy 
of the 2009 Form 20-F. The 2009 Form 20-F filed with the SEC may contain modified information and may be updated from time to time.
Item Page
3 Key Information
A. Selected financial data
Financial highlights 2
Group Financial Record 193
Additional Information - Shareholder Information 199
D. Risk factors
Directors' Report -  
Principal risks and uncertainties 80
4 Information on the Company
A. History and development of the company
Additional Information - History and 
development of the Company 204
Directors' Report - Our resources 25, 32
Financial Review - Investments, divestments 
and capital expenditure 44
Note 7 - Property, plant and equipment 139
Note 22 - Acquisitions of business operations 154
B. Business overview
Directors' Report 10
Note 6 - Segment information 137
Note 1 - Product revenue information 133
Statements of competitive position, inside front
growth rates and sales cover
C. Organisational structure
Directors' Report -  
Subsidiaries and principal activities 98
Principal Subsidiaries 186
D. Property, plant and equipment
Directors' Report - Our resources 25, 32
Additional Information - Property 204
Note 7 - Property, plant and equipment 139
Directors' Report - Environmental/
occupational health and safety liabilities 85
5 Operating and Financial Review 
and Prospects
A-F. Directors' Report 10
Financial Review 36
Note 14 - Interest-bearing loans 
and borrowings 144
Note 16 - Financial instruments 146
Note 19 - Capital and reserves - 
Retained earnings 153
Note 25 - Commitments and 
contingent liabilities 166
6 Directors, Senior Management 
and Employees
A. Directors and senior management
Directors' Report -  
Board of Directors at 31 December 88
Directors' Report -  
Senior Executive Team at 31 December 90
Directors' Report -  
Directors' remuneration - US dollars 112
Directors' Report - Policy on external 
appointments and retention of fees 110
Item Page
B. Compensation
Directors' Report -  
Directors' Remuneration Report 101
Note 23 - Post-retirement benefits 156
Note 24 - Employee costs and share option 
plans for employees 161
Note 27 - Statutory and other information 185
C. Board practices
Directors' Report -  
Board of Directors at 31 December 88
Directors' Report -  
Senior Executive Team at 31 December 90
Directors' Report - 
Board Committee membership 93
Directors' Report -  
Operation of Board Committees 94
Directors' Report -  
Directors' Remuneration Report 101
D. Employees
Directors' Report - People 33
Directors' Report - Our resources 25, 32
Note 24 - Employee costs and share option 
plans for employees 161
E. Share ownership
Directors' Report -  
Directors' interests in shares 115
Directors' Report - Directors' shareholdings 99
Additional Information - Major shareholdings 200
Note 24 - Employee costs and share option 
plans for employees 161
7 Major Shareholders and  
Related Party Transactions
A. Major shareholders
Additional Information - Major shareholdings 200
B. Related party transactions
Additional Information -  
Related party transactions 201
Note 27 - Statutory and other information - 
Related party transactions 185
8 Financial Information
A. Consolidated statements  
and other financial information
Financial Review -  
Dividend and share re-purchases 42
Directors' Report - Distributions to 
shareholders and dividends for 2009 98
Financial Statements (excluding Directors' 
responsibilities on page 122 and Auditor's 
opinion on page 123) 120
Additional Information - Shareholder Information 199
B. Significant changes
Note 27 - Statutory and other information 185
9 The Offer and Listing
A4. Price history of listed stock
Additional Information - Shareholder Information 199
C. Markets
Additional Information - Shareholder Information 199
Item Page
10 Additional Information
B. Memorandum and Articles of Association
Additional Information - Articles 204
D. Exchange controls and other limitations 
affecting security holders 
Additional Information -  
Exchange controls and other 
limitations affecting security holders 203
E. Taxation
Financial Review - Taxation 48
Additional Information -  
Taxation for US residents 202
Additional Information -  
UK and US income taxation of dividends 202
Additional Information -  
Taxation on capital gains 202
Additional Information - Passive Foreign 
Investment Company (PFIC) rules 202
Additional Information - UK inheritance tax 202
Additional Information - UK stamp duty 
reserve tax and stamp duty 203
H. Documents on display
Additional Information - Documents on display 202
11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures 
about Market Risk
Financial Review -  
Financial risk management 44
Note 15 - Financial risk management 
objectives and policies 144
Note 16 - Financial instruments 146
15 Controls and Procedures
Directors' Report - Principal corporate 
governance requirements 96
Directors' Report - Audit Committee 94
Financial Statements - Directors' 
Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting 122
16 [Reserved]
A. Audit Committee financial expert
Directors' Report - Audit Committee 94
Directors' Report -  
Board Committee membership 93
B. Code of ethics
Directors' Report - Code of Conduct 97
C. Principal accountant fees and services
Directors' Report - Audit Committee 94
Note 27 - Statutory and other information 185
E. Purchases of equity securities by the issuer 
and affiliated purchasers
Note 20 - Share capital of the Company - 
Share re-purchases 154
G. Corporate governance
Directors' Report - Principal corporate 
governance requirements 96
18 Financial Statements
Financial Statements (excluding Directors' 
responsibilities on page 122 and Auditor's 
opinion on page 123) 120 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
206 Additional Information 
Glossary
Market definitions
North America Rest of World
Other Established Markets Emerging Markets
Western Europe Japan Australasia Emerging Europe China
Emerging 
Asia Pacific Other Emerging 
US Austria Japan Australia Albania* China Bangladesh* Egypt
Canada Belgium New Zealand Belarus* Cambodia* Gulf States
Denmark Bosnia-Herzegovina* Hong Kong Latin America
Finland Bulgaria* India Lebanon
France Croatia* Indonesia* Maghreb
Germany Czech Republic Laos* Saudi Arabia
Greece Estonia* Malaysia South Africa
Holland Georgia* Philippines
Iceland* Hungary* Singapore
Ireland Kazakhstan* South Korea
Italy Latvia* Sri Lanka*
Luxembourg* Lithuania* Taiwan
Norway Macedonia* Thailand
Portugal Poland Vietnam*
Spain Romania*
Sweden Russia*
Switzerland Serbia/Montenegro*
UK Slovakia
Slovenia*
Turkey
Ukraine*
Established Markets means North America and Other Established Markets.
Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela.
Gulf States includes Bahrain*, Dubai*, Kuwait*, Oman*, Qatar* and UAE.
Maghreb means Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia*. 
*IMS Health data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health data for these countries. 
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates.
US equivalents
Terms used in this Annual Report 
and Form 20-F Information US equivalent or brief description
Accruals Accrued expenses
Allotted Issued
Bank borrowings Payable to banks
Called-up share capital Issued share capital
Creditors Liabilities/payables
Current instalments of loans Long-term debt due within one year
Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses
Earnings Net income
Finance lease Capital lease
Fixed asset investments Non-current investments
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity
Interest payable Interest expense
Interest receivable Interest income
Loans Long-term debt
Prepayments Prepaid expenses
Profit Income
Profit and loss account Income statement/consolidated statement of income
Reserves Retained earnings
Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares
Short term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits
Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
207 Additional Information  
The following abbreviations and expressions have the 
following meanings when used in this Annual Report:
Abbott means Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd. 
with respect to Trilipix
 
 and/or Certriad and Abbott 
Laboratories, Inc. with respect to Crestor. 
ADR means an American Depositary Receipt 
evidencing title to an ADS.
ADS means an American Depositary Share 
representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
AGM means an Annual General Meeting 
of the Company. 
Alcon means Alcon Research, Ltd.
ANDA means an abbreviated new drug application, 
which is a marketing approval application for a generic 
drug submitted to the FDA. 
Annual Report means this Annual Report and Form 
20-F Information 2009.
Array means Array BioPharma Inc.
Articles means the Articles of Association of the 
Company. 
Astellas means Astellas Pharma, Inc.
Astra means Astra AB, being the company with whom 
the Company merged in 1999.
AstraZeneca means the Company and its subsidiaries.
BMS means Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company.
CEO means the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company.
CER means constant exchange rates.
CFO means the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
CHMP means the Committee for Medicinal Products 
for Human Use, being a committee of the EMEA.
Code of Conduct means the Group's Code of Conduct. 
Combined Code means the UK Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance that sets out standards of good 
practice in corporate governance for the UK.
Company means AstraZeneca PLC (formerly Zeneca 
Group PLC (Zeneca)).
Complete Response Letter means a letter issued by the 
FDA communicating their decision to a drug company 
that its NDA or biological licensing application is not 
approvable as submitted. The submitting drug company 
is required to respond to the Complete Response Letter 
if it wishes to pursue an approval for its submission. 
cost growth rates means percentage growth of a 
particular cost category over the comparable cost 
category for the previous year. 
Dako means Dako Denmark A/S.
Director means a director of the Company.
earnings per share (EPS) means profit for the year 
after tax and minority interests, divided by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during 
the year.
EMEA means the European Medicines Agency. 
EU means the European Union. 
FDA means the US Food and Drug Administration, 
which is part of the US Department of Health and 
Human Services Agency, which is the regulatory 
authority for all pharmaceuticals (including biologics 
and vaccines) and medical devices in the US.
Forest means Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
GAAP means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
GDP means gross domestic product. 
GIA means AstraZeneca's group internal audit.
gross margin means the margin, as a percentage, 
by which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated by 
dividing the difference between the two by the sales figure.
Group means AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries. 
IAS means the International Accounting Standards.
IASB means the International Accounting 
Standards Board.
IFRS means the International Financial Reporting 
Standards or an International Financial Reporting 
Standard, as the context requires.
Jubilant means Jubilant Biosys Ltd.
KPI means key performance indicator.
KPMG means KPMG Audit Plc. 
Listing Standards means the corporate governance 
and listing standards of the NYSE.
MAA means a marketing authorisation application, 
which is an application for authorisation to place 
medical products on the market. This is a specific term 
used in the EU and European Economic Area markets.
MAb means monoclonal antibody, a biologic that 
is specific; that is, it binds to and attacks one 
particular antigen. 
MedImmune means MedImmune, LLC (formerly 
MedImmune, Inc.).
Merck means Merck Sharp & Dohne Corp (formerly 
Merck & Co., Inc.).
moving annual total (MAT) means a figure that 
represents the financial value of a variable for 12 months. 
NDA means a new drug application to the FDA 
for approval to market a new medicine in the US.
Nektar means Nektar Therapeutics.
NGOs means non-governmental organisations.
Novexel means Novexel S.A.
NSAID means a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
NYSE means the New York Stock Exchange.
operating profit means sales, less cost of sales, 
less operating costs, plus operating income.
Ordinary Share means an ordinary share of $0.25 each 
in the share capital of the Company.
Orphan Drug means a drug which has been approved 
for use in a relatively low-incidence indication (an orphan 
indication) and has been rewarded with a period of 
market exclusivity; the period of exclusivity and the 
available orphan indications vary between markets.
OTC means over-the-counter.
Paediatric Exclusivity means, in the US, a six-month 
period of exclusivity to market a drug which is awarded 
by the FDA in return for certain paediatric clinical studies 
using that drug. This six-month period runs from the 
date of relevant patent expiry. Analogous provisions are 
available in certain other territories.
Patent Term Extension means an extension of up to 
five years in the term of a US patent relating to a drug 
which compensates for delays in marketing resulting 
from the need to obtain FDA approval.
Phase I means the phase of clinical research where a 
new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of 
people (20 to 80) to check that the drug can achieve 
appropriate concentrations in the body, determine a 
safe dosage range and identify side effects. This phase 
includes healthy volunteer studies.
Phase II means the phase of clinical research which 
includes the controlled clinical activities conducted to 
evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in patients with 
the disease under study and to determine the common 
short-term side effects and risks associated with the 
drug. Phase II studies are typically conducted in a 
relatively small number of patients (usually no more 
than several hundred).
Phase III means the phase of clinical research which 
is performed to gather additional information about 
effectiveness and safety of the drug, often in a 
comparative setting, to evaluate the overall benefit/
risk profile of the drug. Phase III studies usually 
include between several hundred and several 
thousand patients.
pounds sterling,  , GBP , pence or p means 
references to the currency of the UK.
R&D means research and development.
Redeemable Preference Share means a redeemable 
preference share of  1 each in the share capital of 
the Company.
Regulatory Exclusivity means any of the intellectual 
property rights arising from generation of clinical data 
and includes Regulatory Data Protection (as explained 
in the Intellectual property section on page 31), 
Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status. 
Salix means Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act means the US Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002.
SEC means the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, the governmental agency that regulates 
the US securities industry/stock market.
SET means the Senior Executive Team. 
SG&A costs means selling, general and administrative 
costs. 
sNDA means a supplemental new drug application, 
which is an application made to the FDA to seek 
approval to market an additional indication for a drug 
already on the market.
Targacept means Targacept Inc.
Teva means Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. 
TSR means total shareholder return, being the total 
return on a share over a period of time, including 
dividends re-invested.
UCB means UCB Pharma S.A.
UK means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland.
US means the United States of America.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ means references to the 
currency of the US.
WHO means the World Health Organization, the United 
Nations' specialised agency for health. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
208 Additional Information 
Index
2009 performance summary 15, 16
Accounting policies 45, 128, 189
Acquisitions 22, 154
Annual general meeting 93, 94, 98, 99, 100, 101, 104
Aptium Oncology, Inc. 50, 75
Articles of association 93, 96, 99, 110, 202, 203, 204
Astra Tech AB 50, 75
AstraZeneca PLC financial statements 188
AstraZeneca PLC balance sheet 188
Audit Committee 79, 92, 93, 94, 97
Biologics 12, 13, 19, 80, 81
Board 79, 87
Branches 98
Capital and reserves 153
Capitalisation 42
Cardiovascular 6, 19, 39, 43, 56, 196
Cash and cash equivalents 143
Chairman's statement 4
Chief Executive Officer's review 5
Combined Code 95, 96
Commitments and contingent liabilities 166
Company history 199, 204
Competition 13, 83
Compliance and Group Internal Audit 97
Consolidated statement of cash flows 127
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 126
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 124
Consolidated statement of financial position 125
Directors' interest in shares 115
Directors' responsibility statement 122
Dividends 3, 42, 98, 154, 201, 202
Earnings per ordinary share 2, 137
Emerging markets 3, 7, 12, 14, 16, 18, 25, 28,  
29, 32, 36, 51, 53, 82, 206
Employee costs and share options 
for employees 161
Environmental sustainability 16, 76
Established markets 7, 12, 14, 28, 29, 50, 51, 52, 206
Ethics (including stem cell research  
and animal research) 26, 29
Executive directors' and Senior Executive 
Team's remuneration and terms of employment 105
Financial highlights 2
Finance income and expense 134
Financial instruments 100, 146
Financial position 2008 43
Financial position 2009 39
Financial risk management 44, 144
Form 20-F 97, 205
Gastrointestinal 6, 39, 43, 58, 60, 75, 196
Global community 77
Glossary 206
Goodwill 39, 43, 47, 140
Group financial record 193
Group financial statements 124
Growth drivers 12
Independent auditor's report 123, 187
Infection 6, 19, 39, 43, 62, 196
Inflammation see Respiratory & Inflammation
Intangible assets 39, 43, 47, 141
Intellectual property 31, 81, 82
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 144
Inventories 40, 44, 143
Key performance indicators 14, 16, 26, 29, 35
Leases 185
Litigation 47, 56, 60, 65, 68, 71, 82, 84, 85, 166
Major events affecting 2009 37
Managing risk 33, 79
Medicines 8, 18, 55
Neuroscience 6, 19, 39, 43, 65, 196
Nomination and Governance Committee 92, 93, 95
North America 6, 12, 28, 29, 50, 206
Oncology 6, 23, 39, 43, 68, 75, 196
Operating profit 2, 16, 36, 134
Operational overview 3
Other investments 143
Outsourcing 16, 23, 26, 84
Patents see Intellectual property
Patient safety 20
People 25, 29, 32, 33
Pipeline 3, 6, 14, 16, 22, 24, 25, 196
Political donations 99
Portfolio Investment Board See R&D Executive Committee
Post-retirement benefits 48, 156
Pricing 12, 21, 51, 52, 53, 83
Principal risks and uncertainties 80
Product revenue information 133
Property, plant and machinery 39, 43, 139, 204
Provisions for liabilities and charges 152
R&D Executive Committee 15, 20, 92
Regulatory requirements 13
Related party transactions 201
Remuneration Committee 92, 93, 95, 101
Research and development 6, 12, 14, 16, 22, 47
Respiratory & Inflammation 6, 19, 39, 43, 71, 196
Rest of world 52, 206
Restructuring 14, 16, 34, 36, 37, 41, 83
Results of operations 2008 42
Results of operations 2009 38
Safety, health and wellbeing 35
Sales and marketing 16, 28
Sales by therapy area 39, 43, 55, 57, 61, 63, 66, 69, 72
Statutory and other information 185
Science Committee 92, 93, 96
Segment information 137
Senior Executive Team (SET) 49, 79, 90, 92
Share capital 99, 153, 199, 204
Share re-purchase 3, 42, 98, 199
Shareholder communications 99
Strategy 14
Subsidiaries 98, 186
Supply and manufacturing 32
Taxation 41, 44, 48, 86, 135
Taxation information for shareholders 202, 203
Trade and other payables 40, 44, 152
Trade and other receivables 40, 44, 143
Trade marks 82, inside back cover
Transactions with directors 113
UK corporate governance 96
US corporate governance 97
Working with others 6, 22
World markets 12 Trade marks
Trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of 
companies appear throughout this Annual Report in 
italics. AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and 
the AstraZeneca symbol are all trade marks of the 
AstraZeneca group of companies. Trade marks of 
companies other than AstraZeneca appear with a 
 
 
sign and include: Abraxane
 
, a trade mark of Abraxis 
BioScience, LLC.; Advair Diskus
 
, a trade mark of the 
GlaxoSmithKline group of companies; Cimzia
 
, a trade 
mark of UCB Pharma, S.A.; Cubicin
 
, a trade mark of 
Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; CytoFab
 
, a trade mark of 
Protherics, Inc.; Ethyol
 
, a trade mark of Scherico Ltd in 
certain countries and AstraZeneca in others; Iscover
 
, 
a trade mark of Sanofi-Aventis SA; Lipitor
 
, a trade mark 
of Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals; Onglyza
 
, a trade 
mark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; Plavix
 
, a trade 
mark of Sanofi-Aventis SA; Prinivil
 
, a trade mark of 
Merck; Spiriva
 
, a trade mark of Boehringer Ingelheim 
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG; Trilipix
 
, a trade mark of 
Fournier Industrie et Sant ; and Vioxx
 
, a trade mark 
of Merck.
Designed and produced by Addison, www.addison.co.uk
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
Important information for readers 
of this Annual Report and Form 
20-F Information
Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements
The purpose of this Annual Report and Form 20-F 
Information is to provide information to the members of 
the Company. The Company and its Directors, 
employees, agents and advisors do not accept or 
assume responsibility to any other person to whom this 
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information is shown or 
into whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. In order, 
among other things, to utilise the  safe harbour' 
provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act 1995 and the UK Companies Act 2006, we are 
providing the following cautionary statement: This 
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information contains 
certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 
operations, performance and financial condition of the 
Group. Forward-looking statements are statements 
relating to the future which are based on information 
available at the time such statements are made, 
including information relating to risks and uncertainties. 
Although we believe that the forward-looking 
statements in this Annual Report and Form 20-F 
Information are based on reasonable assumptions, the 
matters discussed in the forward-looking statements 
may be influenced by factors that could cause actual 
outcomes and results to be materially different from 
those expressed or implied by these statements. The 
forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and 
information available at the date of the preparation of 
this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements. We identify the forward-
looking statements by using the words  anticipates', 
 believes',  expects',  intends' and similar expressions in 
such statements. Important factors that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those contained in 
forward-looking statements, certain of which are 
beyond our control, include, among other things, those 
factors identified in the Principal risks and uncertainties 
section from page 80 of this document. Nothing in this 
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
Inclusion of reported performance, core financial 
measures and constant exchange rate growth rates
In Our year in brief section on page 2 and throughout the 
Directors' Report the following measures are referred to:
Reported performance. Reported performance takes  >
into account all the factors (including those which we 
cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates) 
that have affected the results of our business as 
reflected in our Group Financial Statements prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and 
as issued by the IASB.
Core financial measures. These are non-GAAP  >
measures because unlike Reported performance they 
cannot be derived directly from the information in the 
Group's Financial Statements. These measures are 
adjusted to exclude certain significant items, such as 
charges and provisions related to our global 
restructuring and synergy programmes, amortisation 
and impairment of the significant intangibles relating 
to the acquisition of MedImmune in 2007, the 
amortisation and impairment of the significant 
intangibles relating to our current and future exit 
arrangements with Merck in the US, and other 
specified items. See the Reconciliation of Reported 
results to Core results table on page 40 for a 
reconciliation of Reported to Core performance. 
Constant exchange rate (CER) growth rates. These  >
are also non-GAAP measures. These measures 
remove the effects of currency movements (by 
retranslating the current year's performance at the 
previous year's exchange rates and adjusting for other 
exchange effects, including hedging). A reconciliation of 
Reported results adjusted for the impact of currency 
movements is provided in the Operating profit (2009 
and 2008) table on page 39.
Throughout this Annual Report and Form 20-F 
Information, growth rates are expressed at CER unless 
otherwise stated.
AstraZeneca's determination of non-GAAP measures 
together with our presentation of them within our 
financial information may differ from similarly titled 
non-GAAP measures of other companies.
Statements of competitive position, growth rates 
and sales
In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, 
except as otherwise stated, market information 
regarding the position of our business or products 
relative to its or their competition is based upon 
published statistical sales data for the 12 months 
ended 30 September 2009 obtained from IMS Health, 
a leading supplier of statistical data to the 
pharmaceutical industry. For the US, dispensed new or 
total prescription data are taken from the IMS Health 
National Prescription Audit for the 12 months ended 
31 December 2009; such data is not adjusted for 
Medicaid and similar state rebates. Except as otherwise 
stated, these market share and industry data from IMS 
Health have been derived by comparing our sales 
revenue to competitors' and total market sales 
revenues for that period. Except as otherwise stated, 
growth rates and sales are given at CER. For the 
purposes of this Annual Report and Form 20-F 
Information, unless otherwise stated, references to the 
world pharmaceutical market or similar phrases are to 
the 49 countries contained in the IMS Health MIDAS 
Quantum database, which amounted to approximately 
95% (in value) of the countries audited by IMS Health.
AstraZeneca websites
Information on or accessible through our websites, 
including astrazeneca.com, astrazenecaclinicaltrials.com 
and medimmune.com, does not form part of and is not 
incorporated into this document.
External/third party websites
Information on or accessible through any third party 
or external website does not form part of and is not 
incorporated into this document.
Definitions
The glossary and the market definitions table from page 
206 are intended to provide a useful guide to terms and 
AstraZeneca's definition of markets, as well as to 
acronyms and abbreviations, used in this Annual Report 
and Form 20-F Information. They are, however, 
provided solely for the convenience of the reader and 
should therefore not be relied upon as providing a 
definitive view of the subject matter to which they relate.
Use of terms
In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, 
unless the context otherwise requires,  AstraZeneca', 
 the Group',  we',  us' and  our' refer to AstraZeneca 
PLC and its consolidated entities and any reference to 
 this Annual Report' is a reference to this Annual Report 
and Form 20-F Information.
Statements of dates
Except as otherwise stated, references to days and/or 
months in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 
are references to days and/or months in 2009.
Figures
Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial 
Statements are used to represent negative numbers. AstraZeneca Annual Report  
and Form 20-F Information 2009
Health in the real world
Registered office and  
corporate headquarters
AstraZeneca PLC
15 Stanhope Gate
London W1K 1LN
UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7304 5000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7304 5151
Investor relations
E-mail:
ir@astrazeneca.com
UK: as above
Sweden: 
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 S dert lje
Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)8 553 260 00
Fax: +46 (0)8 553 290 00
US:
Investor relations
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP
1800 Concord Pike
PO Box 15437
Wilmington
DE 19850-5437
US
Tel: +1 (302) 886 3000
Fax: +1 (302) 886 2972
Registrar
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
UK
Tel (freephone in the UK): 
0800 389 1580
Tel (outside the UK): 
+44 (0)121 415 7033
Swedish Central Securities Depository
Euroclear Sweden AB
PO Box 7822
SE-103 97 Stockholm
Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)8 402 9000
US Depositary
JPMorgan Chase & Co
PO Box 64504
St Paul
MN 55164-0504
US
Tel (toll free in the US): 
800 990 1135
Tel (outside the US): 
+1 (651) 453 2128
E-mail: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
Our website
This Annual Report is also available  
on our website, astrazeneca.com/
annualreport2009
Contact Information
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009