 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors' Remuneration Report 119
In this introduction to the 2010 Directors' 
Remuneration Report I highlight a number of 
points to give context to the report that follows. 
As we indicated in our 2009 annual report, the Remuneration 
Committee's main objectives during 2010 were to develop long-
term compensation structures to support the strategic and financial 
progress of the Group, to invest in the development of human 
capital in AstraZeneca, and to focus on stewardship and 
shareholder value-creation over the long term. In particular, we 
stated our intention to reshape the Group's long-term incentive 
arrangements, maintaining (but not increasing) the overall value  
of the package, but recognising that AstraZeneca operates in a 
uniquely long-term industry. We sought thereby to strengthen the 
alignment between the time horizons over which our business 
investment decisions are taken and those to which part of our share 
incentive programmes relate. An important and informative part of 
this process was extensive consultation with institutional investors. 
We are grateful for their contribution to the development of the 
proposals. Our recommendations received strong support from 
shareholders at our AGM in April 2010 and the new AstraZeneca 
Investment Plan was approved. 
Meanwhile, 2010 has been a year of considerable change for  
the senior leadership of AstraZeneca. Remuneration policy and 
practices play a key role in supporting the implementation of our 
strategy to be a focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, 
prescription-based biopharmaceutical business. The Committee 
has endeavoured to strike an appropriate balance between levels  
of remuneration that reflect the need to attract and retain top talent 
in a highly competitive global market and policies that are aligned 
with best practice through risk adjustment, deferral, claw-back and 
reward for success. The Committee has applied careful oversight  
to internal moves and external hires to ensure that AstraZeneca 
attracts and retains world-class talent in its Senior Executive Team, 
particularly, in 2010, in light of the changes in our R&D organisation, 
across its R&D senior leadership. 
There have also been changes to the membership of the 
Committee itself during 2010. In April 2010, John Buchanan retired 
from the Committee when he stepped down from the Board. On 
behalf of the Committee I would like to thank John for his immensely 
valuable contribution to the Committee's operation and decisions 
during his tenure as a member. Following John's retirement, Rudy 
Markham has joined the Committee, bringing with him a wealth of 
relevant experience, including as a Non-Executive Director of the 
Financial Reporting Council. Rudy is also a member of the Audit 
Committee, and we thereby maintain an important link between  
the work and deliberations of the two Committees. As can be seen 
from the Committee members' biographies on page 106, each  
of AstraZeneca's Board Committees (including the Science 
Committee, which is chaired by Dame Nancy Rothwell) is 
represented in the membership of the Remuneration Committee. 
This is intentionally so, and ensures that critical issues concerning 
performance, productivity, risk and reputation continue to be at the 
forefront of the Committee's considerations. 
The changes that were made to executive remuneration during  
the year (explained more fully below) reflect a clear desire in the 
business, which the Committee fully supported, to move towards  
a longer-term framework which will strengthen alignment with the 
inherently long-term nature of pharmaceutical drug development 
and thereby with the long-term interests of shareholders. The 
revised long-term incentive (LTI) structures have been designed, 
cognisant of shareholder views and expectations, to provide a clear 
focus for the business to outperform its industry peers over time,  
to deliver operational efficiency and engender a strong sense of 
stewardship that will deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I commend this 
Directors' Remuneration Report to you.
John Varley 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors' Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
John Varley 
Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This Directors' Remuneration Report (Report) has been prepared  
in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Regulations)  
and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services 
Authority's Listing Rules. As required by the Regulations, a 
resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the AGM  
on 28 April 2011. 
The following sections of this Report, up to and including the 
Non-Executive Directors section on page 128, were not subject  
to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Remuneration Committee membership and meetings
The members of the Committee are John Varley (Chairman), Rudy 
Markham, Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell. Rudy Markham 
became a member of the Committee on 29 April 2010. Until that 
date, upon which he retired from the Board, John Buchanan was a 
member of the Committee. Throughout 2010, all the members of 
the Committee were independent Non-Executive Directors - Louis 
Schweitzer was considered by the Board to be independent upon 
his appointment as Chairman. The independence of the Non-
Executive Directors is discussed in more detail in the Corporate 
Governance Report from page 109. The Company Secretary acts 
as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met seven times in 2010. The individual attendance 
record of members of the Committee is set out in the Board and 
Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 table on page 111.
At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own 
remuneration was being discussed, David Brennan, CEO; Lynn 
Tetrault, Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and 
Corporate Affairs; Simon Appleby, Vice-President, Performance  
and Reward; and Viv Gill and her successor, Katie Jackson-Turner, 
Vice-President, Global Compensation attended one or more 
Committee meetings in 2010 and provided advice and services  
that materially assisted the Committee.
The Committee retains Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) 
who provided independent advice on various matters it considered 
in 2010. During the year, the Committee reviewed the voluntary 
code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting  
in the UK, which is operated under the aegis of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group, in which Deloitte participates. During the year, 
Deloitte also provided taxation advice and other specific non-audit 
services to the Group. The Committee reviewed the potential for 
conflicts of interest and judged that there was none and that the 
independence of its adviser was not called into question.
Committee terms of reference and main work during  
the year
Committee terms of reference
A copy of the Committee's terms of reference is available on our 
website, astrazeneca.com.
The role of the Committee is to develop and deploy remuneration 
policies and practices for senior management, and for the Group 
more broadly, that support the implementation of our business 
strategy and which thereby help the organisation to create value  
for shareholders over time.
The Committee has responsibility for determining, on behalf of the 
Board, the individual compensation paid to Executive Directors and 
SET members. It takes responsibility on behalf of the Board for 
reviewing the design and operation of total compensation structures 
and practices across AstraZeneca. In this regard, the Committee's 
approval is required in relation to, among other things, decisions 
regarding:
>  The eligibility, structure, award/grant levels, performance metrics 
and targets, costs and final vesting levels under LTI plans for 
Directors, other SET members and the Company Secretary.
>  Annual bonus payments for Executive Directors, other SET 
members and senior executives below SET level.
>  The pension entitlements of Executive Directors and other  
SET members.
>  The Chairman of the Board's remuneration (which is approved by 
the other members of the Committee and the Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director).
>  Any single payment or award over $1 million.
>  Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and other  
SET members.
>  The contractual terms and conditions of, and any potential or 
actual payments arising on termination to, Executive Directors, 
other SET members and the Company Secretary so as to ensure 
that they are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is 
not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference during 
2010 and agreed to recommend to the Board a small number of 
changes, principally to reflect provisions in the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code. These were approved by the Board in January 
2011 and the revised terms of reference are available on our 
website, astrazeneca.com.
Main work during the year
The Committee considered the following principal matters  
during 2010:
>  Completion of the strategic review of the remuneration and 
incentive framework for Executive Directors and other SET 
members. This included significant consultation with major 
shareholders and institutional investor organisations.
>  A review of the terms of senior executives' remuneration 
packages on appointment, promotion and termination, including 
the remuneration packages on the appointment of a number of 
senior leaders in R&D.
>  The assessment of Group and individual performance against 
performance targets to determine the level of executive bonuses 
for 2009 and to set executive bonus performance targets for 2010.
>  The approval of the rules of the new AstraZeneca Investment Plan 
(AZIP) prior to the AZIP being proposed to shareholders for 
approval at the 2010 AGM, and the approval of the rules of the 
new AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan (GRSP), which did 
not require shareholder approval. 
>  The approval of the introduction of a new cash flow target for  
the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan (PSP), to be used in 
conjunction with the existing TSR performance condition.
>  The approval of awards made under the Group's main LTI plans: 
the PSP; the AZIP; and the GRSP to SET members and other 
participants.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 120 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report >  The approval of restricted share awards to a limited number  
of senior executives under the AstraZeneca Restricted Share  
Plan (RSP).
>  A review of the use of claw-back provisions by the Company.
>  A review of the Company's governance arrangements for global 
compensation matters.
>  A benchmarking review of the Committee's activities and policies 
against institutional investor guidelines.
>  A review of the levels of share ownership of Executive Directors 
and other SET members.
>  A review of the pension entitlements of Executive Directors and 
other SET members.
>  A review of the impact on compensation policies and practices  
of the current economic environment, including ensuring the 
appropriate degree of risk adjustment to aggregate and individual 
compensation decisions. 
>  A review of the voluntary code of conduct operated under the 
aegis of the Remuneration Consultants Group in relation to 
executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
>  In conjunction with the Senior independent Non-Executive Director 
and not in the presence of the Chairman of the Board, a review of 
the basic fee paid to the Chairman of the Board for his services.
>  The preparation, review and approval (in January 2011) of this 
Report.
Key remuneration principles
The Committee considers that the following objectives should 
continue to define its approach to the formation and execution  
of AstraZeneca's remuneration policy:
>  All aspects of executive remuneration should be designed to help 
AstraZeneca create sustainable growth in shareholder value by 
the successful implementation of strategy and be developed in 
the context of shareholder views on best practice. 
>  Reward structures and performance measures should support  
a strong performance culture enabling delivery of the business 
strategy, where all employees have a clear understanding of the 
Group's objectives, how their work will impact those objectives and 
how they will benefit from delivering high levels of performance.
>  Base pay and total compensation positioning against the market 
should be appropriate to attract and develop high-calibre talent 
and SET remuneration should continue to be referenced to 
competitive levels of remuneration.
Following the 2010 AGM, the shareholding guidelines for Executive 
Directors and other SET members were increased. The 
shareholding requirement for the CEO was increased to 200% of 
base salary (from 100%) and the requirement for all other Executive 
Directors and SET members was increased to 125% of base salary 
(from 100%).
Incentive programmes designed to deliver long-term 
shareholder value
The long-term share interests of Executive Directors and other SET 
members are provided through two complementary share plans, 
the PSP and the AZIP .
Under the PSP , a relative TSR performance condition applies in 
respect of one half of any award made and the other half of the 
award is subject to a cash flow performance measure that reflects 
operational management of the business in a way that is consistent 
with generating value for shareholders. A cash flow measure was 
introduced in 2010 because it encompasses all elements of 
operational and financial performance, represents a strong proxy 
through time for shareholder value creation and is a key measure for 
the Group. Together, the TSR and cash flow performance conditions 
focus reward under the PSP on outperformance of competitors.
The AZIP , approved by shareholders in 2010, operates with an 
eight-year time horizon where reward is conditional on sustainable 
shareholder returns and financial performance. The AZIP creates 
the opportunity for annual awards to Executive Directors and other 
SET members which must be held for a total of eight years and  
are subject to a four-year performance requirement from the date  
of award.
The greater weighting within the LTI opportunity is given to awards 
under the PSP . Awards under the PSP are positioned so that 
interests under this plan can deliver 75% of the overall expected value 
from long-term remuneration and the AZIP 25%. The Committee 
keeps under review the appropriateness of this weighting.
The combination of awards under these two plans enhances the 
alignment between the time horizons over which our business 
investment decisions are taken and those to which our long-term 
remuneration vehicles relate.
The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan (SOP) expired during 2010 and 
grants of share options no longer form part of our LTI arrangements.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 121 Components of remuneration
During 2010, the remuneration components for all Group employees 
(including those of SET members) comprised fixed and variable 
performance-related elements. Summaries of these elements are 
included in the Components of remuneration table below. 
The way in which these elements of remuneration are combined 
and applied varies according to a range of factors, including specific 
business needs and practices in different markets, although, in 
general, the more senior the role within the business, the greater 
the proportion of total remuneration is made up of variable 
performance-related elements. The Committee seeks to ensure that 
the overall proportion of variable pay to which Executive Directors 
and other SET members may become entitled forms a significant 
part of their overall remuneration opportunity. The Committee's 
objective for senior management is to ensure that such variable pay 
is linked to a range of measures designed to promote both 
individual and team behaviour and performance in a way that 
supports the success of AstraZeneca and creates value for its 
shareholders. Such measures are designed to stretch and 
challenge the relevant individuals while at the same time giving them 
an opportunity to participate as shareholders in the creation  
of long-term economic value.
The Committee has continued to take into account the wider 
business environment and employment conditions across the 
Group. In particular, with the exception of the CFO whose base 
salary had remained unchanged since he joined the Group, no base 
pay increases were awarded in respect of the 2010 calendar year  
to Executive Directors or other SET members whose responsibilities 
were unchanged. In addition, award opportunities for SET members 
under the Group's LTI plan framework have been held at a 
consistent level since the adoption of the PSP in 2005. 
For 2011, the Company will continue to benchmark against 
appropriate comparator companies and will assess whether or not 
and to what extent the overall opportunities for remuneration offered 
by the current structure of remuneration remain appropriate in the 
context of changes within the business and the external 
environment in which it operates, taking note also of the guidance 
issued within the last 12 months from bodies representing 
institutional shareholders.
Components of remuneration
Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of policy Applies to
Base salary (fixed) Base fixed remuneration. Based on conditions in the relevant market and 
recognising the value of an individual's sustained 
personal performance and contribution to the 
business, taking account of the market rate for an 
individual's skills and experience. Benchmarked 
against external comparators.
All employees
Pension arrangements 
(fixed)
Provision of retirement benefits. Benchmarked against the relevant local  
employment market.
All employees
Benefits (fixed) Provision of standard non-cash employment benefits, 
such as healthcare, insurances and, for certain 
employees, facilitated car purchase arrangements. 
Cost-effective and compatible with relevant welfare 
arrangements and local market norms.
All employees
Short-term bonus 
(variable)
An annual cash incentive opportunity determined  
by reference to Group, functional and individual 
performance, measured over a single financial year  
of the Company and taking into account external 
expectations of performance.
Differs by market, but the Group performance 
measures ensure that all eligible employees receive  
an element of reward based on the Group's overall 
financial performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the Committee at 
the start of the year and are derived from the business 
scorecard, the key elements of which are set out in the 
Business objectives and key performance indicators 
section from page 16, and are monitored as part of the 
quarterly business review (QBR) process.
Individual goals are based on annual objectives, which 
are linked to functional goals.
All eligible 
employees
Deferred bonus plan 
(variable)
Aligns SET members' interests with those of 
shareholders.
SET members must defer a proportion of their 
short-term bonus (one-third of pre-tax bonus for 
Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET 
members) into Ordinary Shares or ADSs for a 
three-year period.
SET members
LTI plans (variable) Long-term equity incentive awards to provide individual 
executives and employees with total compensation 
opportunities that are competitive against local market 
practice, for the achievement of operational excellence, 
strong financial performance and actions that are 
closely aligned with the interests of shareholders. The 
primary LTI plans in which SET members participate 
are the PSP and the AZIP.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. SET members and 
other senior 
executives
AstraZeneca Investment Plan. SET members
Share Option Plan (final awards made in 2009). Senior management 
and SET members
Global Restricted Stock Plan. Eligible employees 
globally
Other share plans  All employee' share participation arrangements, 
including some that are tax-approved, for example  
in the UK.
Examples include the Share Incentive Plan and 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
1
.
Eligible employees
Shareholding guidelines Aligning SET members' interests with those of 
shareholders.
The CEO is expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% 
of base salary and the CFO and other SET members 
are expected to hold 125% of base salary in shares.
SET members
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET member's remuneration the Committee considers, both separately and in aggregate, each 
component of the SET member's total remuneration.
1
 Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 122 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report Illustration of fi xed and variable performance-related 
remuneration
Based on AstraZeneca's remuneration policy, the Components of 
remuneration - expected value charts below illustrate the potential 
weighting given to fi xed and variable performance-related elements 
of the remuneration package at Executive Director level. Variable 
performance-related elements of the package are shown on an 
 expected value' basis, and in the event that performance 
conditions are not met, such elements would not deliver any value. 
The  expected value' approach considers the range of possible 
outcomes and the probability attached to each, in order to provide 
a value that represents the average that would be delivered if the 
arrangements were operated over many years. The  expected value' 
for bonus payment is taken to be the target payout level.
Fixed remuneration
Both Executive Directors' terms and conditions are UK-based apart 
from David Brennan's pension and health insurance arrangements, 
which are described below, and are benchmarked against external 
UK comparators.
Base salary
The base salary for Executive Directors and other SET members 
is determined by the Committee. Salary decisions refl ect the 
experience and performance of the individuals to whom they apply, 
taking account of market competitiveness and the level of increases 
applicable to employees in the wider Group. There was no increase 
to the base salary of the CEO in either 2009 or 2010. The CFO's 
base salary was increased in 2010 for the fi rst time since he joined 
the Group in 2007 . Effective from 2011, the Committee awarded 
David Brennan and Simon Lowth base salary increases of 2.5%, 
illustrated in the Executive Directors' base salaries in 2010 and 2011 
table below. This is in line with the adjustments being made to the 
base salaries of other employees within the Group in 2011.
Executive Directors' base salaries in 2010 and 2011
Executive Director
Annual salary 
in 2010
 
Annual salary 
in 2011
 
Increase
%
David Brennan 972,900 997,223 2.5
Simon Lowth 620,000 635,500 2.5
Components of remuneration - expected value
Chief Executive Officer (%) 
Fixed
 Base Salary  
Variable
 Bonus  
 PSP  
 AZIP  
 
22
14
42
22
Chief Financial Officer (%) 
Fixed
 Base Salary  
Variable
 Bonus  
 PSP  
 AZIP  
 
29
11
34
26
Fixed Elements Variable Elements
Base salary Linked to short-term performance Linked to long-term performance
Pension Bonus AstraZeneca Investment Plan
Benefi ts (such as healthcare) Deferred Bonus (share-based) Performance Share Plan
Remuneration and terms of employment for Executive Directors and other SET members
Components of Executive Director and SET remuneration
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 123 Pension arrangements
The table in the Defined benefit arrangements section on page 130 
gives details of the changes in the value of the Executive Directors' 
accrued pensions during 2010.
CEO's pension arrangements
David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit 
Pension Plan (US DBP), by virtue of his membership of pension 
plans applicable to legacy Astra Merck employees. On his 
appointment to the Board, the rules of the US DBP were amended 
so as to remove bonus payments from the calculation of his 
pensionable pay. Benefits for members of the US DBP are delivered 
on a tax-qualified basis, with accrued benefits that exceed specific 
limits under the plan's formula and the US Tax Code being delivered 
through a supplementary, non-qualified plan.
The normal pension age under the US DBP is 65. However, on 
leaving or retiring from employment, David Brennan is eligible to take 
a pension or lump sum equivalent based on accrued service and final 
pensionable pay (ie without actuarial reduction) due to his satisfaction 
of a condition in the pension plan relating to the combined age and 
service exceeding 85 years, as previously disclosed.
David Brennan's participation in the US DBP is subject to a service 
cap at 35 years' service, which will be attained in January 2011, 
after which no further service accrual can be earned.
Members and, in the event of death, surviving spouses/dependants 
can elect, in relation to those benefits delivered on a tax-qualified 
basis under the US DBP , to take pensions in lump sum form based 
on actuarial valuation. Members or spouses/dependants may not 
make such an election in relation to any supplementary non-
qualified benefits which must be taken in lump sum form.
In addition, David Brennan (as a US citizen) is a contributing 
member of the US 401(k) savings plan
1
. He also contributes to 
an associated non-qualified plan, as described in the Defined 
contribution arrangements section on page 131.
In the event of a US participant becoming incapacitated, permanent 
health insurance cover will provide continuation of a proportion of 
salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical criteria. In the 
event of the death of a participant prior to retirement, a life 
assurance policy will provide surviving spouses/dependants with a 
lump sum equivalent to one times salary (such salary being capped 
at the maximum pensionable salary under the plan).
CFO's pension arrangements
Simon Lowth is eligible to join the AstraZeneca Group Self Invested 
Personal Pension (UK Defined Contribution Plan (UK DCP)) at a 
company contribution rate of 24% of annual base salary or, 
alternatively, to take the company contribution as a cash allowance. 
For the option years 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 
to 30 June 2011, he elected to take the cash allowance, as detailed 
in the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 131.
In the event of a senior employee in the UK DCP (including one who 
has taken an alternative cash allowance) becoming incapacitated, 
permanent health insurance cover provides continuation of a 
proportion of salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical 
criteria. In the event of death prior to retirement, dependants are 
entitled to a pension and/or lump sum secured from a multiple of  
10 times salary.
1
  The 401(k) savings plan is a qualified plan to which eligible employees may make salary-deferral 
contributions on a post-tax and/or pre-tax basis. Employers may also make matching or 
non-elective contributions to the plan. There is a supplementary non-qualified plan in place for 
all eligible employees whose earnings exceed specific limits under the US Tax Code.
Benefits
Consistent with the majority of employers, certain benefits are made 
available to Executive Directors and other SET members via local 
benefits programmes offered by AstraZeneca. Benefits under these 
programmes typically include healthcare, insurances and facilitated 
car purchase arrangements.
Variable performance-related remuneration
Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to 
participate in different elements of variable performance-related pay, 
which are described below. The decision as to whether or not, in 
any given year, they receive any or all of their elements of variable 
pay is determined by the Committee, which, in making such a 
determination, will typically have regard to the performance of the 
individual and the Group and will consider the elements of variable 
pay applicable to senior employees in other comparable 
organisations.
Short-term bonus
Performance criteria
Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible for a 
short-term bonus. The basis for the payment of any short-term 
bonus is determined by reference to a range of factors linked to the 
underlying performance of AstraZeneca's business, the 
performance of the functional area for which the individual is 
responsible and the performance of the individual in his or her role.
Structure and assessment of performance 
As set out in the 2009 Directors' Remuneration Report, the 
performance criteria for the determination of annual bonuses for 
Executive Directors and other SET members have been aligned 
more closely with the current objectives and measures that are 
used by the business. This approach continued to apply for 2010 
and will do so for 2011. For 2011, the bonus ranges are unchanged 
from 2010. The bonus deferral requirements, described in more 
detail below, applied for 2010 and will be reviewed during 2011. 
Executive Directors' and other SET members' bonuses for 2010 
were based on performance criteria linked to the following targets:
>  60% by reference to EPS, cash flow targets and the objectives in 
each of the strategic priority areas identified by the Board for the 
business, the key elements of which are set out in the Business 
objectives and key performance indicators section from page 16 
and which are monitored as part of the quarterly business review 
(QBR) process against targets set by the Committee at the 
beginning of the year and, which among other things, take into 
account external expectations of performance;
>  40% by reference to individual measures and initiatives which link 
to the business objectives relevant to the individual's functional 
accountability (or, in the case of the CEO, the average of these 
individual outcomes).
These measures reinforce AstraZeneca's emphasis on individual 
and business accountability. The key measures referred to above 
are clearly set out in the Business objectives and key performance 
indicators section from page 16, whereby Group and functional 
objectives and measures are managed in a robust and consistent 
way and assessed by the SET as part of the QBR process. The 
outcome of this process is rigorously scrutinised by the Committee.
Bonus ranges for 2011
For 2011, the bonus ranges for each Executive Director are shown 
below and are the same as 2010.
Executive Director
Bonus range for 2011
%
David Brennan 0-180
Simon Lowth 0-150
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 124 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report Bonus outcomes for 2010
In assessing bonuses for 2010, the Committee took into account 
the strong EPS (excluding restructuring and synergy costs) and 
cash flow performance, which in both cases significantly exceeded 
target, together with overall business and financial outcomes and 
relevant functional performance against clear measures and 
initiatives set at the beginning of the bonus year. The key elements 
of these strategic priorities and business objectives are set out in 
the Business objectives and key performance indicators section 
from page 16, in relation to the following categories, which the 
Committee believes are consistent with delivering shareholder value:
> Pipeline
> Deliver the business
> Business shape
> People and values.
When assessing the performance of the business in these 
categories, the Committee noted that during 2010:
>  In relation to the pipeline and life-cycle management, Vimovo was 
approved in the US and the EU; Brilique was approved in the EU; 
Kombiglyze  XR (Onglyza /metformin combination) was 
approved in the US; additional indications were approved for 
other products; decisions were made in December to discontinue 
development of motavizumab and Certriad. 
>  Although we suffered some pipeline disappointments, the new 
R&D leadership team has made significant progress in 2010 with 
the creation of a single R&D organisation. 
>  The Commercial organisation has continued to drive strong sales 
performance in the face of an increasingly challenging 
environment.
>  Our Operations function has continued to deliver on efficiency. 
>  The business broadly maintained a good level of employee 
engagement despite a period of significant organisational change. 
>  The business response to the Corporate Integrity Agreement has 
been rigorous with significant work undertaken to continue to 
promote a culture of responsibility and accountability across the 
organisation.
Having assessed the Company's performance against all the 
measures set out above, the Committee is satisfied that the bonus 
payments that have been earned against stretching performance 
targets are fully justified.
The bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors for 2010 are 
shown in the table below.
Bonus outcomes for 2010 
Short-term bonus (delivered as a combination 
of cash and shares, as shown in the Directors' 
emoluments in 2010 section from page 129)
1
Executive Director   % of salary
David Brennan
1,583,025 162.71
Simon Lowth
918,245 148.10
1
 Bonuses for Executive Directors are not pensionable.
Bonus share deferral requirements
Consistent with best practice, and to encourage a long-term view 
and align SET members' interests with those of shareholders, the 
Committee has put in place a requirement that certain proportions 
of any short-term bonus payment (as specified below) be deferred 
and invested into Ordinary Shares or ADSs (together, Shares). 
Broadly, these are acquired on the open market at the prevailing 
market price and held for a period of three years from the date of 
acquisition before being delivered to individual Executive Directors 
and other SET members. This arrangement is one of the ways in 
which, over time, Executive Directors and other SET members will 
be able to build up a significant shareholding in the Company.  
The proportion currently deferred into shares is one-third of the 
pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET 
members. The Committee will review whether the proportion of 
bonus to be deferred should be increased in 2011. On leaving, 
participants would normally have to wait for the shares to be 
released at the end of the three-year period. For Executive Directors 
and other SET members who cease employment for reasons other 
than that of good leaver (for example, those who are dismissed),  
the deferred bonus award will lapse, unless the Committee decides 
otherwise before the cessation of employment.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
The PSP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and 
provides for the grant of performance share awards (PSP Share 
Awards) over Shares. The operation of the PSP was reviewed in 
2010 and a new cash flow performance condition, described in 
more detail below, was introduced.
Basis of participation
Participation in the PSP is highly selective and usually includes only 
senior employees on the basis of their performance. 
Generally, PSP Share Awards can be granted at any time (although 
in practice they are awarded annually), but not during a close or 
prohibited period of the Company. In 2010, the main grant of PSP 
Share Awards was made on 26 March, (for SET members on 7 
May) with other Share Awards approved by the Committee in 
relation to, for example, new appointments, promotions or 
assignments being granted on 27 August and 5 November. The 
value of Shares subject to a PSP Share Award is determined by 
reference to the market price of Shares over the three-day period 
immediately preceding the date of grant.
Details of PSP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are 
shown in the Performance Share Plan table on page 133.
Individual limit
In respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum 
market value of Shares that may in theory be put under a PSP 
Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employee's 
base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under the PSP , subject to this 
maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
Performance conditions
Other than in exceptional circumstances, which are prescribed in 
the PSP rules, the vesting of PSP Share Awards is contingent on 
the satisfaction of specified performance targets and continued 
employment with the Group. In addition to the satisfaction of these 
performance targets, PSP Share Awards will generally not vest until 
the third anniversary of the date of grant. If a participant ceases to 
be in relevant employment, the award will be time pro-rated and 
vest at the end of the performance period.
Performance period and vesting dates
In the case of all PSP Share Awards granted to date, the 
performance target relates to the three-year period commencing  
on 1 January of the year of grant. Therefore, for PSP Share Awards 
made in 2010, the performance period runs from 1 January 2010  
to 31 December 2012. The vesting date is the third anniversary of 
the date of grant.
Performance targets
>  50% of the award is based on relative TSR against a selected 
peer group of global pharmaceutical companies, of which:
 -  25% of the maximum award vests for performance at the 
median of the peer group; 
 -  75% of the maximum award vests for upper quartile 
performance; and 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 125  -  100% of the maximum award may vest at the Committee's 
discretion if the Company's TSR performance is substantially 
better than that of the upper quartile of the comparator group. 
For PSP Share Awards to vest at this level the Company would 
need to have sustained a level of performance significantly in 
excess of upper quartile over a period of years and the 
Committee would need to be satisfied that this was warranted.
>  50% of the award vests subject to the achievement of the free 
cash flow target, which operates as a cumulative cash flow target 
over a three-year performance period.
The peer group for the TSR measure is: Abbott Laboratories, Inc., 
BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson & 
Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., F. Hoffmann-La Roche 
Ltd and Sanofi-Aventis. 
TSR measures share price growth, and dividends reinvested in 
respect of a notional number of shares from the beginning of the 
relevant performance period to the end of it, and ranks the 
companies in the selected comparator group by reference to their 
TSR achieved over that period. The rank which the Company's TSR 
achieves over the performance period will determine how many 
Shares will vest under the relevant PSP Share Award. Payouts 
against performance in relation to TSR for PSP Share Awards are 
expressed as a percentage of the maximum PSP Share Award 
currently payable, shown within a range of 0% to 100%. This 
presentation is shown in the table below.
The TSR vesting schedule is as follows:
TSR ranking of the Company Vesting %
Below median
 0
Median
25
Between median and upper quartile
Pro rata
Upper quartile
75
Significantly above upper quartile
Up to 100
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in 
the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior 
to the start and end of the relevant performance period.
In addition to the TSR performance target being met for each PSP 
Share Award as set out above, the Committee also has to satisfy 
itself that achievement of the TSR performance target is a genuine 
reflection of the Group's underlying financial performance and has 
the discretion to prevent PSP Share Awards from vesting or only to 
allow them to partially vest where this appears to the Committee to 
be warranted.
The cash flow target will operate as a cumulative performance 
target over the same three-year performance period as the TSR 
measure. The measure for the cash flow target is net cash flow 
(before distributions) and the level of vesting will be based on a 
sliding scale between a threshold cash flow target of $16 billion and 
an upper target of $23 billion. Twenty five percent of the relevant 
portion of the award will vest for achievement of the threshold 
target, rising on a sliding scale to full vesting for achievement  
of the upper target as shown in the table below. Net cash flow  
is considered to be the most appropriate measure of cash flow 
performance because it relates to the residual cash available to 
finance additional investment in specific business needs, debt 
repayments and our distribution policy.
The cash flow measure encompasses a number of important 
elements of operational and financial performance and helps to 
align executives' rewards with shareholder value creation. The level 
of vesting of this element is based on a sliding scale against a target 
that is intended to represent a significant challenge for the business. 
It is intended that the Committee should have the discretion to 
adjust, but on an exceptional basis only, the free cash flow target 
during the performance period for material factors that might 
otherwise distort the performance measure in either direction.  
This is so that performance can be assessed against targets that 
have been set on a consistent basis. For example, adjustments  
may be required to reflect exchange rate movements, significant 
acquisitions or divestments, and major legal and taxation 
settlements. Any major adjustments to the calculation are disclosed 
to shareholders. There is no retesting of performance. 
Adjusted cumulative cash flow Vesting %
Less than $16 billion
0
$16 billion
25
Between $16 billion and $23 billion
Pro rata
$23 billion and above
100
For PSP Share Awards granted up to and including 2007 , the 
companies included in the peer group for the TSR measure were: 
Abbott Laboratories, Inc., BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline 
plc, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Sanofi-Aventis, Schering-Plough 
Corporation and Wyeth Inc. As a result of corporate actions in the 
pharmaceutical sector during 2009, Schering-Plough Corporation 
and Wyeth Inc. have been removed from the peer group. As a result, 
the Committee has decided the following in relation to outstanding 
unvested awards:
>  PSP Share Awards in 2007: the TSR performance for Schering-
Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc. was adjusted from a date a 
week before the announcement of the relevant corporate action 
to the end of the relevant performance period so as to track the 
TSR of the acquiring companies (Merck in the case of Schering-
Plough and Pfizer Inc. in the case of Wyeth Inc.).
>  PSP Share Awards from 2008 onwards: Schering-Plough 
Corporation and Wyeth Inc. were removed from the peer group 
thus reducing the size of the peer group to 10 companies 
(excluding AstraZeneca). For these awards, AstraZeneca's TSR 
will be compared with the TSR for the 10 companies remaining  
in the peer group in respect of the relevant performance period.
Performance under the PSP in 2010
The TSR graphs on page 131 show, for each PSP Share Award, 
how the Company's TSR performance has compared with the TSR 
for the companies in the comparator group from the first day of the 
relevant performance period to 31 December 2010 and how the 
Company ranks against those other peer companies on this basis. 
At the end of 2010, the Company is on track to meet the cash flow 
target. We will continue to report on the performance of each PSP 
Share Award against the relevant performance target during the 
relevant vesting period.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan 
The AZIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and 
provides for the grant of share awards (AZIP Share Awards) over 
Shares.
Basis of participation
Participation in the AZIP is highly selective and usually includes only 
senior employees on the basis of their performance. 
The first grant of AZIP Share Awards was made on 7 May, shortly 
after the approval of the AZIP by shareholders. In future years, AZIP 
Share Awards are likely to be made annually at the same time as the 
annual awards under other long-term incentive plans. The value of 
Shares subject to an AZIP Share Award is determined by reference 
to the market price of Shares over the three-day period immediately 
preceding the date of grant.
Details of AZIP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are 
shown in the AstraZeneca Investment Plan table on page 133.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 126 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report Performance period and holding period
It is intended to operate the AZIP with a four-year performance 
period (Performance Period) and a four-year holding period (Holding 
Period). Under the rules of the AZIP , the Performance Period is the 
period of up to eight years (and not less than three years) from 
1 January of the financial year in which the AZIP Share Award is 
made. The Holding Period starts at the end of the Performance 
Period and ends eight years from the first day of the financial year  
in which the AZIP Share Award was made.
Performance requirement for awards under the AZIP
The AZIP is aligned to AstraZeneca's targeted product development 
cycle, reflecting the long-term investment horizons that are a feature 
of the industry. The performance requirement attached to awards 
under the AZIP is a combination of dividend and dividend cover 
tests, assessed over a period of up to four financial years beginning 
at the start of the first financial year of the Company in which the 
award is granted. 
At the end of the Performance Period, the extent to which the 
performance hurdle has been met will determine the number of 
Shares in respect of which the AZIP Share Award will vest at the 
end of the Holding Period. 
The Committee's intention in its choice of proposed performance 
tests has been to establish a performance requirement that 
motivates financial business performance that will generate returns 
for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended time 
period. The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2010 is 
that the annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary 
Shares is increased from $2.30 over the four year Performance 
Period ($2.30 being the full year dividend for 2009) and that 
dividend cover (based on reported earnings before restructuring 
costs) does not fall below 1.5 times.
Performance under the AZIP in 2010
The full year dividend was $2.55 for 2010 and dividend cover did 
not fall below the 1.5 times threshold. We will continue to report on 
the performance of each AZIP Share Award against the relevant 
performance hurdle during the relevant performance period.
Cessation of employment during the Performance Period
If a participant ceases to be in employment (and also, if relevant, an 
Executive Director) with the Group during the Performance Period, 
his/her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his cessation 
is because of death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, 
retirement with the agreement of his/her employing company, or 
because of a sale or transfer out of the Group (each a Good Leaver 
Reason). In these circumstances, the maximum number of Shares 
comprised in an AZIP Share Award will, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the 
period of employment between grant and cessation, relative to the 
four-year Performance Period. In circumstances where the Good 
Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability (being 
compassionate circumstances), the performance hurdle will be 
assessed and the AZIP Share Award may vest following cessation 
of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise. On 
cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the 
pro-rated AZIP Share Award will remain subject to the performance 
hurdle, which will be assessed at the end of the Performance 
Period, unless the Committee determines that special 
circumstances apply, and the AZIP Share Award may then vest on 
the later of: (i) the end of the Performance Period; or (ii) 24 months 
after cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise. 
Cessation of employment during the Holding Period
If a participant ceases to be in employment (and also, if relevant, an 
Executive Director) with the Group during the Holding Period, his/
her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his/her cessation 
is because of a Good Leaver Reason. In circumstances where the 
Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability (being 
compassionate circumstances), the AZIP Share Award will vest in 
respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award (as 
calculated at the end of the Performance Period) as soon as 
possible following cessation of employment. On cessation of 
employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the AZIP Share 
Award will vest in respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share 
Award (as calculated at the end of the Performance Period) on the 
earlier of: (i) the end of the period of 24 months from the date of 
cessation of employment; and (ii) the end of the Holding Period. The 
Committee does have discretion to determine otherwise if it believes 
the circumstances justify this.
Individual limit
In respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum 
market value of Shares that may in theory be put under an AZIP 
Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employee's 
base salary. The actual individual limits that apply under the AZIP , 
subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to 
time. Share Awards made to Executive Directors in 2010 did not 
exceed 65% of base salary.
Claw-back of Shares
The Committee can claw back some or all of the Shares that are  
the subject of a participant's AZIP Share Award at any time during 
the Performance Period and the Holding Period if, in the opinion  
of the Committee (acting fairly and reasonably), any of the 
underlying performance of the Company, the occurrence of an 
event that causes or is very likely to cause reputational damage  
to the Company, or serious misconduct by the participant, warrants 
the claw-back. If this discretion is exercised, the AZIP Share Award 
will be deemed to have been granted over the reduced number  
of Shares.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan
The SOP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2000 and 
provided for the grant of share option awards (Option Awards) over 
Shares. The SOP was approved for a period of 10 years and 
expired in May. The Company did not seek re-approval of the SOP 
by shareholders.
Details of outstanding Option Awards granted to Executive Directors 
are shown in the Share option plan table on page 134.
The Committee imposed performance conditions in respect of  
the exercise of such Option Awards by SET members (including  
the Executive Directors) which, in the view of the Committee, were 
considered appropriately stretching. In order for Option Awards  
to vest, the EPS of the Group must increase at least in line with the  
UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum on average, over a three 
year period, the base figure being the EPS for the financial year 
preceding the date of grant, with no retesting. In addition, since  
the review of executive remuneration in 2004, the Committee has 
included a condition that, if an event occurs which causes material 
reputational damage to the Company, such that it is not appropriate 
for the Option Awards to vest and become exercisable, the 
Committee can make a determination to reflect this.
Other incentive plans
Global Restricted Stock Plan 
The GRSP was introduced in 2010 and provides for the grant of 
restricted stock awards (Stock Awards) over Shares. As the GRSP 
is operated for below SET-level employees only, no SET member 
participates in the GRSP . During 2010, two restricted stock plans 
(the AZ RSU Plan and the MedImmune RSU Plan described below) 
applicable to below SET-level employees were discontinued and 
replaced by the GRSP (on broadly similar terms to the existing 
plans, with no increase in overall award levels) for the purposes of 
simplifying the administration. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 127 In 2010, Stock Awards were made under the GRSP on 26 March, 
with other Stock Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, 
for example, new appointments, promotions or assignments being 
granted on 27 August. Stock Awards granted under the GRSP do 
not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares but 
rather rely on the market purchase of Shares that have already been 
issued. There is no increase in the overall quantum of awards 
applicable to target employees through the introduction of the GRSP . 
Restricted Stock Unit Plans 
The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award 
Plan (AZ RSU Plan) was introduced in 2007 and provided for the 
grant of restricted stock unit awards to selected employees 
(predominantly in the US). The MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted 
Stock Unit Award Plan (MedImmune RSU Plan) was introduced in 
2008 to make restricted stock unit awards to employees of 
MedImmune. The AZ RSU Plan and the MedImmune RSU Plan 
were used in conjunction with the SOP to provide a mix of restricted 
stock units and share options. Restricted stock unit awards typically 
vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and are contingent 
on continued employment with AstraZeneca. The AZ RSU Plan and 
the MedImmune RSU Plan were replaced in 2010 by the GRSP . 
Restricted Share Plan
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan (RSP) was introduced  
in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards  
(RS Awards) to key employees, excluding Executive Directors.  
RS Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates 
and may not operate in respect of newly issued Ordinary Shares  
or Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury. The RSP was used  
a number of times in 2010 to make RS Awards to a limited number 
of key senior executives in specific situations considered by the 
Committee. The Committee has responsibility for agreeing any  
RS Awards under the RSP and for setting the policy for the way  
in which the RSP should operate. 
Other plans
In addition to the plans described above, the Company operates a 
Share Incentive Plan and a Savings-Related Share Option Plan in 
the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & Customs approved plans. 
Certain Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to 
participate in these plans, more detailed descriptions of which can 
be found in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173. 
Dilution under LTI Plans
Only outstanding awards under the SOP are settled using newly 
issued Ordinary Shares. None of the other LTI plans currently 
operated by the Company have a dilutive effect because they  
do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares  
but rather rely on the market purchase of Shares that have already 
been issued. 
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts for each of the Executive Directors, 
including their notice periods, are set out opposite. Either the 
Company or the Executive Director may terminate the service 
contract on 12 months' notice. It is the Committee's intention that,  
in the event of early termination of an Executive Director's 
employment, any compensation payable under his/her service 
contract should not exceed the salary and benefits that would have 
been received had the contractual notice period been worked and 
this may be further reduced in line with the Executive Director's duty 
to mitigate losses. None of the Executive Directors has any provision 
in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages 
or an automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice 
period. Compensation for any bonus entitlement will be assessed 
initially as  on target' but subject to adjustment by the Committee  
to take account of the particular circumstances of the termination.
Policy on external appointments and retention of fees
Subject to the specific approval of the Board in each case, 
Executive Directors and other SET members may accept external 
appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and 
retain any related fees paid to them, provided always that such 
external appointments are not considered by the Board to prevent 
or reduce the ability of the executive to perform his or her role within 
the Group to the required standard. Such appointments are seen as 
a way in which executives can gain a broader business experience 
and, in turn, benefit the Company.
During 2010, with the approval of the Board, Simon Lowth was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC. 
In respect of such position, he retained the fees paid to him for his 
services which, during the period of his directorship from 1 May to 
31 December, amounted to  66,667 .
Non-Executive Directors
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract but  
all have letters of appointment. The effective dates of appointment 
for each of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table 
opposite. In accordance with the Company's Articles, following their 
appointment, Directors must retire at each AGM and may present 
themselves for election or re-election. None of the Non-Executive 
Directors has any provision in their letter of appointment giving them 
a right to compensation payable upon early termination of their 
appointment. They are not eligible for performance-related bonuses 
or the grant of share awards or options. No pension contributions 
are made on their behalf.
During 2010, the annual fees paid to Non-Executive Directors were 
reviewed. The basic Board fee, the fee of the Chairman and of the 
Senior independent Non-Executive Director, and the fee for 
membership of the Audit Committee were increased. These 
increases took into account the need for the Company to continue 
to attract skilled and experienced Non-Executive Directors, having 
regard to comparable fees at other UK public listed companies of a 
similar size, and to recognise the significant responsibility and time 
commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors. The increases 
ensure that the Company is well positioned when seeking to recruit 
new Non-Executive Directors as part of routine refreshment of the 
Board and succession planning. The annual aggregate 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors remains well below the 
limit in the Articles approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM. 
None of the Non-Executive Directors has participated or will 
participate in any decision made in relation to the determination of 
their own fees.
The Chairman's annual fee is  500,000, and the annual fees 
applicable to other Non-Executive Directors are set out opposite.  
In addition to the mandatory shareholding requirement imposed  
on all Directors under the Articles described in the Directors' section 
on page 216, in December 2008 the Board agreed that each 
Non-Executive Director should also be encouraged to build up, over 
time, a shareholding in the Company with a value approximately 
equivalent to the basic annual fee for a Non-Executive Director 
( 75,000) or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately equivalent 
to his annual fee ( 500,000).
Audit
The Directors' emoluments in 2010 disclosed in the Directors' 
emoluments in 2010 section from page 129 and the details of the 
Directors' interests in Ordinary Shares disclosed in the Directors' 
interests in shares section from page 132, have been audited by 
KPMG Audit Plc.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 128 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report Details of Executive Directors' service contracts at 31 December 2010
Executive Director
1
Date of service 
contract
Unexpired term at 
31 December 2010
Notice 
period
David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months
Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months
1
  Neither of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to a bonus for the duration of their notice period.
Non-Executive Directors' terms and conditions
Non-Executive Director
1, 2
Effective date of appointment
Bruce Burlington 1 August 2010
Jean-Philippe Courtois 18 February 2008
Jane Henney 24 September 2001
Michele Hooper 1 July 2003
Rudy Markham 12 September 2008
Nancy Rothwell 27 April 2006
Louis Schweitzer 11 March 2004
John Varley 26 July 2006
Marcus Wallenberg 6 April 1999
1
 None of the letters of appointment applicable to Non-Executive Directors confers upon them any right to compensation payable on early termination of their appointment.
2
 Pursuant to the Articles, the continued appointment of each Non-Executive Director is subject to their election or re-election at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors' fees
 
Basic Fee 75,000
Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000
Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000
Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee
1
20,000
Membership of the Science Committee 10,000
Chairman of the Science Committee
1
7,000
1
 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Directors' emoluments in 2010
The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards, 
paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2010 was  5,880,000 ($9,088,000).  
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars. All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits  
for Directors are established in pounds sterling.
Directors' remuneration - pounds sterling 
Name
Salary 
and fees
  000
Bonus 
cash
  000
Bonus 
Shares
1
 
 000
Taxable 
benefits
 000
Other 
payments 
and 
allowances 
 000
Total 
2010 
 000
Total
2009
 000
Total
2008 
 000
Louis Schweitzer 456 - - - - 456 325 303
David Brennan 973
2
1,055 528 24 464
3
3,044 3,186 2,506
Simon Lowth 620 612 306 8 96
4
1,642 1,426 1,304
Bruce Burlington
5
33 - - - - 33 --
Jean-Philippe Courtois 80 - - - - 80 75 58
Jane Henney 90 - - - - 90 85 76
Michele Hooper 120 - - - - 120 100 90
Rudy Markham 90 - - - - 90 75 23
Nancy Rothwell 96 - - - - 96 92 80
John Varley 99 - - - - 99 95 83
Marcus Wallenberg 71 - - - - 71 60 53
Former Directors
Bo Angelin
6
23 - - - - 23 70 63
John Buchanan
6
36 - - - - 36 110 96
Others - - - -- - 479 1,181
Total 2,787 1,667 834 32 560 5,880 6,178 5,916
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 129 Directors' remuneration - US dollars
Name
Salary 
and fees
 $000
Bonus 
cash
 $000
Bonus 
Shares
1
 
$000
Taxable 
benefits
$000
Other 
payments 
and 
allowances 
$000
Total 
2010 
$000
Total
2009
$000
Total
2008 
$000
Louis Schweitzer 705---- 705 504 567
David Brennan 1,504
2
1,631 816 37 717
3
4,705 4,937 4,692
Simon Lowth 958 946 473 12 148
4
2,537 2,209 2,442
Bruce Burlington
5
51 ---- 51 --
Jean-Philippe Courtois 124---- 124 116 109
Jane Henney 139---- 139 132 142
Michele Hooper 185---- 185 155 169
Rudy Markham 139---- 139 116 43
Nancy Rothwell 148---- 148 143 150
John Varley 153---- 153 147 155
Marcus Wallenberg 110---- 110 93 99
Former Directors
Bo Angelin
6
36 ---- 36 108 118
John Buchanan
6
56 ---- 56 170 180
Others ------ 743 2,211
Total 4,308 2,577 1,289 49 865 9,088 9,573 11,077
1
  These figures represent that portion of the 2010 bonuses required to be deferred into Shares to be held for a three-year period, as explained in the Bonus share deferral requirements section 
on page 125.
2
  This figure includes a sum of $356,000/ 230,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and 401(k) plan which were paid into the plan 
by means of a salary sacrifice (see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 131 for further details).
3
 Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards. 
4
  Relates to remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZeneca's UK flexible benefits programme and a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of an LTI share 
plan award.
5
  Part-year only as appointed as a Director with effect from 1 August 2010.
6
  Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 29 April 2010.
In the tables on this page and on the previous page, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars at the average 
exchange rate for the year in question. These rates were:
GBP/USD
2010 0.647
2009 0.645
2008 0.534
Details of share options exercised by Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the  
LTI plans, in the year are given in the Director's interests in shares section from page 132.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Pensions
Defined benefit arrangements
Pension is payable to David Brennan in US dollars. For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds sterling 
and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2010 set out above. 
David Brennan
 000 $000
Defined benefit arrangements
1. Accrued pension at 1 January 2010 918 1,419
2. Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation --
3. Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 69 107
4. Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 19 29
5. Accrued pension at 31 December 2010 1,006 1,555
6. Employee contributions during 2010 --
7. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2009 12,890 19,922
8. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2010
1
14,711 22,738
9. Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 1,822 2,816
10. Age at 31 December 2010 57
4
 12 57
4
 12
11. Pensionable service (years) at 31 December 2010 35 35
1
  For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity. The value shown at 
31 December 2010 has been adjusted to reflect a change in the lump sum factor at 31 December 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 130 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report Defined contribution arrangements
In addition to the defined benefit arrangements set out in the Defined benefit arrangements section above, David Brennan participates in  
a 401(k) plan. He also participates in AstraZeneca's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP) which is operated as a supplemental 
non-qualified plan in respect of US employees should annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions under the qualified 
401(k) plan. During 2010, total employer matching contributions of $91,000 ( 59,000) (2009: $98,000 ( 64,000)) were made to his 401(k)  
plan and EDCP . Member contributions of $356,000 ( 230,000) were paid through salary sacrifice into the plans. As described in the Pension 
arrangements section on page 124, Simon Lowth chose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2010 amounted to 
 149,000 ($230,000) (2009:  132,000 ($205,000)).
Transactions with Directors
There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2010 or 2009.
Total shareholder return
The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph showing TSR over a five-year period in respect of a holding of the Company's shares, plotted 
against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index  
is calculated. The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out below,  
we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index. This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling five-year period. We 
have also included a  Pharma Peers Average' (excluding Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc.), which reflects the TSR of the same 
comparator group used for the graphs below.
The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of a holding of the Company's shares over the relevant performance period be compared with the 
TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical companies (as described in the Performance targets section from page 125). The graphs below show 
how the Company's TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator group from the first day in 
the relevant three-year performance period in respect of each Share Award to 31 December 2010 and how the Company ranks against those 
other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to the start 
of the relevant performance period (as stipulated in the PSP) and, for the purposes of the graphs below, over the last three months of 2010. 
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 (%)
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
AZ GSK BMS J&J NOV AL SA PFI LLY RCH MRK
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2009 to 31 December 2010 (%)
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
BMS MRK AZ SA GSK LLY PFI J&J NOV AL RCH
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 (%)
20
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
AZ BMS MRK NOV LLY J&J GSK PFI SA AL RCH
TSR over a five-year period
160
140
120
100
80
January
2006
January
2007
January
2008
January
2009
January
2010
January
2011
 AstraZeneca  
 Pharmaceutical peers (average)  
 FTSE 100 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 131 Directors' interests in shares
Beneficial interests
The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors (including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is 
defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 or on the date of 
resignation of such Director (if earlier). All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated. However, interests in Ordinary Shares  
or ADSs that are the subject of PSP Share Awards, AZIP Share Awards and/or the Deferred Bonus Plan discussed in this Report, are not 
included in the table below but are shown in the Performance Share Plan, AstraZeneca Investment Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables on 
page 133. None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Company's subsidiaries. Between 31 December 2010 
and 27 January 2011, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below. 
Name
Beneficial interest in Ordinary
Shares at 1 January 2010 or 
(if later) appointment date
Change to beneficial 
interest
Beneficial interest in Ordinary
Shares at 31 December 2010 
or (if earlier) resignation date
Louis Schweitzer 5,356 11,259 16,615
David Brennan 128,375 58,607 186,982
Simon Lowth 850 8,496 9,346
Bo Angelin
1
787 - 787
John Buchanan
1
2,500 - 2,500
Bruce Burlington
2
553 - 553
Jean-Philippe Courtois 2,635 - 2,635
Jane Henney 787 527 1,314
Michele Hooper 1,700 700 2,400
Rudy Markham 1,420 520 1,940
Nancy Rothwell 787 527 1,314
John Varley 500 794 1,294
Marcus Wallenberg
3
67,264 (3,618) 63,646
1
 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 29 April 2010.
2
 Part-year only as appointed as a Director on 1 August 2010.
3
 Ceased to have an interest in 3,618 shares held by a family member who ceased to be a Connected Person during 2010.
Unitised stock plans
David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests in the following plans which were awarded to  
him prior to him becoming CEO: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the 
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan. These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has 
been deferred (and are not incentive awards in their own right). Participants hold units in each plan, which represent a long-term equity 
interest in the Company. A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs. The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value 
of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position. The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights. David Brennan 
is deemed to have a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs. 
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
Unitised stock plan
ADSs held at 
1 January 2010
Net ADSs acquired
during 2010
ADSs held 
at 31 December 2010
AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 35,906 1,835 37,741
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 8,103 420 8,523
No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they 
have different voting rights from other shareholders.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 132 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report Performance Share Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2010 in Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP are not included in the table on 
the previous page but are shown below:
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence)
Price on 
vesting 
date (pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2007 Share Award 107,051 2744 30.03.07 30.03.10 01.01.07 - 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 161,546 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
2009 Share Award 133,347 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 - 31.12.11
Total at 1 January 2010 401,944
Partial vesting of 2007 Share Award
2
(83,499)
3,5
2980
Partial lapse of 2007 Share Award (23,552)
2010 Share Award 127,520 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 - 31.12.12
Total at 31 December 2010 422,413
Simon Lowth
2007 Share Award 15,554 2210 16.11.07 16.11.10 01.01.07 - 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 58,448 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
2009 Share Award 54,276 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 - 31.12.11
Total at 1 January 2010 128,278
Partial vesting of 2007 Share Award
2
(12,132)
4,5
3016
Partial lapse of 2007 Share Award (3,422)
2010 Share Award 52,009 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 - 31.12.12
Total at 31 December 2010 164,733
1
 UK date convention applies.
2
   Share Awards granted in 2007 vested in 2010 at 78% based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets (which are set out in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan section from page 125).
3
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 49,264 Ordinary Shares.
4
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneficially interested in a net number of 5,944 Ordinary Shares.
5
  Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in  Other payments and allowances' in the Directors' remuneration tables 
from page 129.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2010 in Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the AZIP are not included in the table 
on the previous page but are shown below:
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2010 Share Award 21,253 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 - 31.12.13
Total at 31 December 2010 21,253
Simon Lowth
2010 Share Award 8,668 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 - 31.12.13
Total at 31 December 2010 8,668
1
  UK date convention applies.
Deferred Bonus Plan
As described in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 125, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET members 
to defer a certain proportion of any short-term bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs. The proportion of bonus currently deferred into 
Ordinary Shares or ADSs is one-third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for all other SET members. The interests of 
Directors at 31 December 2010 in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject of awards under these arrangements are not included in the 
table on the previous page but are shown below:
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence)
Price on 
vesting 
date (pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
David Brennan
2007 Award 12,014 2911 23.02.07 23.02.10
2008 Award 16,810 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
2009 Award 17,992 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 1 January 2010 46,816
Vesting of 2007 Award (12,014)
2,3
2810
2010 Award 20,718 2817.5 25.02.10 25.02.13
Total at 31 December 2010 55,520
Simon Lowth
2008 Award 1,340 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
2009 Award 9,775 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 1 January 2010 11,115
2010 Award 9,760 2817.5 25.02.10 25.02.13
Total at 31 December 2010 20,875
1
 UK date convention applies.
2
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 7,088 Ordinary Shares.
3
  Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in  Other payments and allowances' in the Directors' remuneration tables 
from page 129.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors' Remuneration Report 133 Share option plans 
The interests of Directors who served during 2010, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the SOP and, where 
indicated, the Zeneca Plan, are included in the following table. None of the Directors in the table below hold options under the AstraZeneca 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan. There were no grants of options made under any of the plans in 2010.
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares under 
option
1
Exercise 
price per 
Ordinary 
Share
2
Market price 
on date 
of exercise
First day 
exercisable
3,4
Last day
exercisable
3,4
David Brennan At 1 January 2010 - options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
- market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 31 December 2010 - options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
- market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 1 January 2010 - options over ADSs 355,246 $45.22 16.03.03 23.03.15
- market price above option price (ADSs) 210,255 $42.91 26.03.07 23.03.15
- market price at or below option price (ADSs) 144,991 $48.58 29.03.04 27.03.12
Exercised 2 March 2010 (32,727)
5
$44.00 $44.35 16.03.03 26.03.19
At 31 December 2010 - options over ADSs 322,519 $45.35 29.03.04 23.03.15
- market price above option price (ADSs) 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15
- market price at or below option price (ADSs) 211,532 $47.97 29.03.04 25.03.14
Simon Lowth At 1 January 2010 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19
- market price above option price 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price - n/a n/a n/a
Exercised 17 November 2010 (18,665) 2210p 3048p 16.11.10 15.11.17
At 31 December 2010 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19
- market price above option price 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price - n/a n/a n/a
1
  Vesting is subject to satisfying the relevant performance conditions set out in each of the relevant share option plans. Further information on the performance conditions applicable to the SOP 
is set out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on page 127. As a Save As You Earn scheme, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan is not subject to any performance 
conditions. Awards granted under the Zeneca Plan are no longer subject to any performance conditions.
2
 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3
 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there may be shorter exercise periods.
4
 UK date convention applies.
5
 Option granted under the Zeneca Plan.
Gains by Directors on exercise of share options
The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years are set out below.
Year
Gains made by Directors 
on the exercise of share options
$
Gains made by the 
highest paid Director
$
2010 260,182.40 11,454.45
2009 --
2008 1,764.96 -
During 2010, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows:
Stock Exchange
Ordinary Share/ADS market price 
at 31 December 2010
Range of the Ordinary Share/
ADS market price during 2010
London 2922p 2732p to 3385p
Stockholm 309.3 SEK 309.3 SEK to 382.2 SEK
New York $46.19 $40.91 to $53.50
On behalf of the Board
A C N Kemp 
Company Secretary 
27 January 2011
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 134 Directors' Remuneration Report
Directors' Remuneration Report