 Directors' Remuneration Report
I am pleased to introduce our Directors' 
Remuneration Report (the Report) for 201 1 for 
which we seek approval at the Company's 
AGM in April. 
The job of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) is to 
promote long-term, sustainable growth in shareholder value. So its 
main focus is on developing policy and remuneration decisions that 
support the Group's strategy as a focused, integrated, innovation-
driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business. This 
involves taking careful account of the interests of our stakeholders.
As your elected representatives, our primary task is to invest 
shareholders' money, in the form of compensation resource, wisely. 
We are mindful of the UK Corporate Governance Code's main 
principle which guides us to award levels of remuneration that are 
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate senior employees (including 
Directors) of the quality required to run the Group successfully, while 
avoiding paying more than is necessary. This means paying close 
attention to the design of incentive arrangements for Executive 
Directors, SET members and other senior executives, as well as to 
how our pay structures operate in practice. To reinforce our objectivity, 
and to complement the objective mindset that is brought to bear  
on remuneration decisions, the Committee takes advice from  
Deloitte LLP, directly appointed by the Committee independently  
of the Company. 
Base salaries are benchmarked against relevant industry market  
data to ensure that they remain competitive, but this is not done 
blindly, continuously or in isolation; the Committee takes care also to 
consider, before making its decisions, the overall performance of the 
business and the needs of the Company in terms of its strategic and 
operational targets. We will not award increases that are not justified 
by individual performance. For incentive arrangements, the Committee 
aims to select performance criteria which are appropriate to the 
Company's circumstances and which will promote AstraZeneca's 
success and competitiveness in the pharmaceutical industry.  
Whether it is the combination of a balanced scorecard, cash flow  
and EPS performance for the annual bonus, or longer-term measures 
relating to shareholder value, such as TSR used in the AstraZeneca 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the dividend hurdles in the 
AstraZeneca Investment Plan (AZIP), we seek to establish clear and 
fair links between individual and Group performance, and appropriate 
levels of reward.
We try to keep in touch with what our shareholders are thinking. There 
is an annual opportunity for our larger investors to meet me and Board 
colleagues to share their opinions and, of course, shareholders 
express their views by way of the shareholder vote on this Report at  
the AGM in April, which is attended by many of our owners. We are 
grateful for the support that shareholders have shown for our 
approach to executive remuneration; last year, 95% of the votes cast 
by shareholders supported the 2010 Directors' Remuneration Report. 
The Committee is also very aware of the position of employees 
throughout the Group, how the remuneration principles established by 
the Committee translate into rewards for employees, and the fairness 
of the rewards earned by Executive Directors, SET members and 
other senior executives in the overall Group context, especially in 
relation to annual salary increases. We call for, and analyse, a 
significant amount of data relating to salaries, bonus levels and 
incentive scheme awards across the Group. We also consider the 
levels of share ownership among SET members and other senior 
executives. We know that in making judgements about the pay of 
senior employees, particularly the Executive Directors, we must 
ensure that our decisions take account of the wider employee context. 
How, for example, does any percentage increase in the base pay of 
the CEO sit alongside base pay increases of junior staff? I hope that 
you can see in our decisions this year, and in the behaviour of the CEO 
himself (who has again declined an increase in base pay), that we are 
sensitive to these important issues. Before awarding an increase in 
base pay and long-term compensation opportunity to our CFO, we 
consulted widely with our major shareholders. The salary increase we 
have decided to award sits within the range of base pay increases 
awarded to the wider UK employees of the Group for 2012. Going 
forward, our intention is that any future increases for Executive 
Directors will be cost of living type increases made on an annual basis. 
In the decisions that it makes, the Committee seeks always to  
assess how these might affect AstraZeneca's reputation. We use  
our discretion to avoid mechanistic outcomes of remuneration 
arrangements that are not justified by the prevailing circumstances, be 
it underlying financial performance or the way in which the Company 
does business. We defer awards and have the ability to use claw-back 
arrangements (where appropriate) to reinforce the importance of the 
Company's reputation and to deter inappropriate risk taking. 
We have changed the format of the Report this year. Without reducing 
disclosure, we have sought in the first part to answer the question: 
What was paid to the Executive Directors in 2011 and why? We then 
set out extensive information of the sort that our shareholders are 
familiar with. So the Report that follows is divided into three sections. 
We start with  What was paid to the Executive Directors in 2011 and 
why?'. We follow this with a section headed  How the Remuneration 
Committee approaches its work' that describes how we aim to 
support business strategy; link reward with performance; and exercise 
judgement. The third section describes the work of the Committee in 
2011. We conclude with an Additional information section containing 
the remainder of the information which shareholders habitually wish to 
see. We would find it useful to receive feedback from shareholders on 
this new approach in due course.
We have noted the proposals on executive remuneration announced 
in January 2012 by the UK Secretary of State for Business, Innovation 
& Skills. This Report is likely to evolve further in response to  
developing legislation. 
On behalf of the Committee, I commend this Report to you.
John Varley 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
John Varley
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 113 Directors' Remuneration Report
In this section, we have set ourselves the task of explaining, as simply 
as we can, what was paid to the Executive Directors during 2011  
and why. 
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (Regulations) and meets the relevant requirements 
of the Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules. As required by the 
Regulations, a resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at 
the AGM on 26 April 2012. 
What was paid to the Executive Directors in 2011 and why?
The summaries below set out the quantitative data for each Executive 
Director, including certain data for the preceding year to enable 
comparison. We follow this with short qualitative comments relating  
to base pay, annual bonus or Short Term Incentive (STI), Long Term 
Incentive (LTI) and benefits, including pension.
David Brennan
Base pay per annum and % changes over previous year
2012 2011 2010
 997,223  997,223  972,900
+0% +2.5% +0%
>  The Committee reviewed the CEO's base pay in December 2011 
and decided to award an increase for 2012 of 2.5%. This was within 
the range of salary increases for employees across the Group. As in 
2010, the CEO declined to accept any increase.
>  The CEO was awarded a bonus for performance during 2011 of 
 1,325,609 (133% of base salary out of a maximum possible award 
of 180% of base salary), the cash element of which will be paid in 
2012
1
. His bonus for performance during 2010, the cash element 
of which was paid in 2011, was  1,583,025 (163% of base salary out 
of a maximum possible award of 180% of base salary)
2
. The 2011 
bonus was lower than the 2010 bonus by 16%. The reasons for this 
are set out in the section below headed Variable elements of the 
CEO's and CFO's remuneration in 2011.
>  The CEO must defer one-third of any pre-tax bonus into Ordinary 
Shares or ADSs. These are held for three years before being 
released. The bonus is not pensionable. 
>  The CEO received an LTI award in 2011 with an expected value of 
250% of base salary
3
. Full details can be found on page 126. Under 
the rules of the PSP and the AZIP, in respect of any financial year  
of the Company, the maximum market value of shares that may in 
theory be put under a PSP or an AZIP share award in respect of  
an employee, is 500% of that employee's base salary.
>  In respect of the LTI award made in 2011, the distribution between 
the PSP and the AZIP was in the ratio 75% to 25%.
>  During 2011, as a result of the vesting of the 2008 share award 
under the PSP, the CEO received 201,932 Ordinary Shares and  
a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued. 
>  The CEO is entitled to standard non-cash employment benefits, 
such as healthcare benefits, insurances and car purchase 
arrangements.
>  In relation to pension arrangements, the CEO's pension entitlement 
is provided through a combination of the AstraZeneca US Defined 
Benefit Pension Plan and US defined contribution arrangements.  
He has an accrued pension at 31 December 2011 of  978,000 per 
annum (2010:  972,000 per annum) from his defined benefit 
arrangements. Full details can be found on page 118.
>  The Committee increased the CEO's shareholding requirement  
in January 2012 from 200% to 300% of base salary.
>  At 31 December 2011, the CEO had a beneficial shareholding of 
273,263
4
 AstraZeneca shares which, at that date, had a value 
approximately equivalent to 815% of his 2011 base salary.
1
  The factors considered by the Committee in assessing performance during 2011 and 
determining the bonus are summarised on page 116.
2
  Each year in January, the Committee determines bonuses for performance in the previous year 
and these are paid in February.
3
  The Company estimates the expected value of LTI awards taking account of the likelihood of 
performance conditions and targets being achieved.
4
  This figure includes an estimated 27,089 shares post-tax held in retention in the Deferred 
Bonus Plan.
2011 
Fixed
 Base Salary
Variable*  
 Bonus  
 PSP
 AZIP  
21
13
39
27
2010 
Fixed
 Base Salary
Variable*  
 Bonus  
 PSP
 AZIP  
20
12
36
32
2009 
Fixed
 Base Salary
Variable*  
 Bonus  
 PSP
 SOP  
19
18
29
34
David Brennan
Components of remuneration - What was paid to the Chief Executive Officer (%)
*  Bonus element is the actual bonus paid for the year in question. PSP, AZIP and SOP elements are on an expected value basis.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 114 Directors' Remuneration Report Simon Lowth 
Base pay per annum and % changes over previous year
2012 2011 2010
 660,000  635,500  620,000
+3.85% +2.5% +13%
>  The Committee reviewed the CFO's base pay in December 2011 
and decided to award an increase for 2012 of 3.85%. This was 
within the range of salary increases for employees across the 
Group. The Committee consulted major shareholders and took  
their views into account before awarding this increase. 
>  The CFO was awarded a bonus for performance during 2011 of 
 769,902 (121% of base salary out of a maximum possible award  
of 150% of base salary), the cash element of which will be paid in 
2012
1
. His bonus for performance during 2010, the cash element of 
which was paid in 2011, was  918,245 (148% of base salary out of a 
maximum possible award of 150% of base salary)
2
. The 2011 bonus 
was lower than the 2010 bonus by 16%. The reasons for this are set 
out in the section below headed Variable elements of the CEO's and 
CFO's remuneration in 2011.
>  The CFO must defer one third of any pre-tax bonus into Ordinary 
Shares or ADSs. These are held for three years before being 
released. The bonus is not pensionable. 
>  The CFO received an LTI award in 2011 with an expected value of 
160% of base salary
3
. Full details can be found on page 126. Under 
the rules of the PSP and the AZIP, in respect of any financial year  
of the Company, the maximum market value of shares that may in 
theory be put under a PSP or an AZIP share award in respect of  
an employee is 500% of that employee's base salary. 
>  After consulting major shareholders and taking their views into 
account, starting in 2012 the Committee has decided to increase 
the target LTI award for the CFO from an expected value of 160%  
of base salary to 200%.
>  In respect of the LTI award made in 2011, the distribution between 
the PSP and the AZIP was in the ratio 75% to 25%. 
>  During 2011, as a result of the vesting of the 2008 share award 
under the PSP, the CFO received 73,060 Ordinary Shares and  
a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued.
>  The CFO is entitled to standard non-cash employment  
benefits, such as healthcare benefits, insurances and  
car purchase arrangements.
>  In relation to pension arrangements, the CFO receives a payment 
equivalent to 24% of his base salary, which amounted to  153,000 
in 2011 (2010:  149,000), as a cash alternative to participation in a 
defined contribution pension scheme. Full details can be found on 
page 118.
>  The Committee increased the CFO's shareholding requirement  
in January 2012 from 125% to 200% of base salary.
>  At 31 December 2011, the CFO had a beneficial shareholding  
of 68,538
4
 AstraZeneca shares which, at that date, had a value 
approximately equivalent to 321% of his 2011 base salary. 
1
  The factors considered by the Committee in assessing performance during 2011 and 
determining the bonus are summarised on page 116.
2
  Each year in January, the Committee determines bonuses for performance in the previous 
year and these are paid in February.
3
  The Company estimates the expected value of LTI awards taking account of the likelihood 
of performance conditions and targets being achieved.
4
  This figure includes an estimated 14,312 shares post-tax held in retention in the Deferred 
Bonus Plan.
2011 
Fixed
 Base Salary
Variable*  
 Bonus  
 PSP
 AZIP  
26
11
31
32
2010 
Fixed
 Base Salary
Variable*  
 Bonus  
 PSP
 AZIP  
24
10
30
36
2009 
Fixed
 Base Salary
Variable*  
 Bonus  
 PSP
 SOP 
23
16
26
35
Simon Lowth
Components of remuneration - What was paid to the Chief Financial Officer (%)
*  Bonus element is the actual bonus paid for the year in question. PSP, AZIP and SOP elements are on an expected value basis.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 115 Directors' Remuneration Report
Variable elements of the CEO's and CFO's remuneration  
in 2011
Bonus outcomes for 2011
For Executive Directors, the principal drivers of annual bonus 
opportunity are EPS (27% weighting), cash flow (9% weighting),  
the Group scorecard (24% weighting) and the relevant SET area 
scorecards (40% weighting). In terms of the SET area scorecards,  
an average of all SET area scorecards is used for the CEO and the 
Finance scorecard is used for the CFO. The scorecards include 
categories relating to Values, Pipeline and People. At the beginning  
of 2011, the Committee set EPS, cash flow and scorecard targets 
against which the performance of the Executive Directors has been 
measured. At CER, both revenue and Core operating profit for the 
year declined by 2% and 4% respectively. This partly accounts for the 
reduction of 16% in the bonuses of the CEO and the CFO. However, 
Core EPS increased by 7%. There was strong double-digit growth for 
Crestor, Seroquel XR and Symbicort. Emerging markets sales growth 
was 10% at CER. Brilinta was approved and launched in the US and 
a number of other countries; other products made good progress 
through regulatory approvals. Both cash flow and EPS performance 
exceeded internal and external expectations. Balanced against this 
were a number of pipeline disappointments, including olaparib and 
TC-5214, which both resulted in impairment charges. The Company 
made net cash distributions to shareholders of $9,370 million by way 
of dividends and the share buy-back programme, boosted by the 
successful disposal of Astra Tech. In addition to a strong financial 
performance in a challenging environment, significant work was 
undertaken in 2011 to continue promoting a culture of responsibility, 
accountability and compliance. The Company is ranked in the top 7% 
in the sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and European 
Indexes, with its highest assessment score to date of 85%.
The annual bonus ranges for the CEO and the CFO in 2012 are 
unchanged from 2011. For the CEO, the range is 0-180% of base 
salary and for the CFO it is 0-150% of base salary.
Vesting of PSP awards in 2011 and 2012
The PSP share awards granted in 2008 in respect of the 2008-2010 
performance period vested during 2011 at 125% for SET members, 
including the CEO and the CFO (whose awards were based on TSR 
alone), following achievement of a relative TSR ranking of first in the 
comparator group over the performance period. The Committee  
used its discretion to determine this vesting of the maximum PSP 
award because the Company's TSR performance was substantially 
better than that of the upper quartile of the comparator group in the 
2008-2010 performance period (a TSR of 55% for the Company 
versus 16% for the next best performing company in the  
comparator group).
The PSP share awards granted in 2009 in respect of the 2009-2011 
performance period will vest during 2012 at 78% for SET members, 
including the CEO and the CFO (whose awards were based on TSR 
alone), following achievement of a relative TSR ranking of fourth in the 
comparator group with a TSR of 35% over the performance period. 
This is in accordance with the performance measures determined by 
the Committee.
Performance under the PSP in 2011
The TSR graphs on page 124 show, for each PSP share award, how 
the Company's TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the 
companies in the comparator group from the first day of the relevant 
performance period to 31 December 2011 and how the Company ranks 
against those other peer companies on this basis. At the end of 2011, 
the Company is on track to meet the cash flow target. We will continue 
to report on the performance of each PSP share award against the 
relevant performance target during the relevant vesting period.
Performance under the AZIP in 2011
Previously granted AZIP awards continued without lapsing as the 
full-year dividend for 2011 was $2.80 per Ordinary Share, which 
exceeded the 2009 and 2010 full-year dividends of $2.30 and  
$2.55 per Ordinary Share respectively. Dividend cover did not fall 
below the 1.5 times threshold.
How the Remuneration Committee approaches its work
Remuneration Committee membership 
The Committee members are John Varley (Chairman of the 
Committee), Rudy Markham, Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell. 
Louis Schweitzer was considered by the Board to be independent 
upon his appointment as Chairman of the Board. All other members  
of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors. The 
Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee retains Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), represented by Carol 
Arrowsmith, who provided independent advice on various matters it 
considered in 2011. The cost of this service to the Company in 2011 
was  118,380 (including VAT). During the year, Deloitte also provided 
taxation advice and other specific non-audit services to the Group. 
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and 
judged that there were no conflicts.
Committee terms of reference
A copy of the Committee's terms of reference is available on our 
website, astrazeneca.com.
The Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference during 
2011. A small number of changes were recommended to the Board, 
principally to reflect updated guidance issued by the Association of 
British Insurers in September 2011. The changes were approved by 
the Board in January 2012.
Supporting the business strategy
The principal role of the Committee is to develop remuneration  
policies and practices that support the implementation of our business 
strategy and help create shareholder value over time.
The remuneration components for all employees (including Executive 
Directors and SET members) comprise fixed and variable 
performance-related elements. A summary of the main components 
of remuneration is set out on page 119.
Base pay and total compensation positioning against the relevant 
market is intended to be sufficient (but no more than necessary) to 
attract, retain and develop high-calibre talent.
Variable pay forms a significant part of the overall remuneration 
opportunity for Executive Directors, SET members and other senior 
executives. It is linked to a range of measures designed to promote 
individual and team performance in a way that supports the Group's 
success. Such measures are intended to stretch and challenge the 
relevant individuals while at the same time giving them an opportunity 
to participate as shareholders in the creation of long-term economic 
value. This is made up of three elements:
>  The annual bonus drives and rewards short-term performance 
against specific Group, functional and individual business objectives. 
>  The PSP rewards the generation of cash at levels to finance 
investment in the business, debt repayment and the Company's 
shareholder distribution policy; and outperformance of industry 
peers in terms of shareholder value-creation measured by  
relative TSR.
>  The performance and holding periods of the AZIP are aligned to  
the Company's product development cycle, reflecting the long-term 
investment horizons that are a feature of the industry. Dividend-
based performance hurdles motivate the generation of returns for 
shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended period  
of time.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 116 Directors' Remuneration Report Linking reward with performance
Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to participate 
in different elements of variable performance-related pay, which are 
described in the Additional information section below. The decision  
as to whether or not, in any given year, they receive any or all of  
their elements of variable pay is determined by the Committee, which, 
in making such a determination, will typically have regard to the 
performance of the individual and the Group, and will consider the 
elements of variable pay applicable to senior employees in other 
comparable organisations.
The Committee works with the Audit Committee to ensure that the 
Group's remuneration policies and practices achieve the right balance 
between appropriate incentives to reward good performance and 
managing risk in terms of employee behaviour and how the Company 
achieves its business objectives. 
The AstraZeneca annual bonus plan, in which all employees participate, 
contains goals demonstrating a commitment to distinction through 
integrity, to enhance reputation and avoid reputational damage. All LTI 
plans operated by AstraZeneca contain claw-back provisions.
Exercising judgement
The Committee believes that an essential element of its approach  
is the exercise of its judgement and discretion in determining 
remuneration in order to reflect relevant circumstances and achieve 
the right balance between the interests of the business, shareholders 
and employees. The Committee always considers the overall 
performance of the Group when using its discretion under the terms  
of AstraZeneca's remuneration arrangements. This is to avoid 
mechanistic outcomes under the terms of any remuneration plan 
which would provide for rewards that are not justified either by 
underlying business performance or in circumstances where 
AstraZeneca has suffered reputational damage.
Aligning senior executives' interests with those of 
shareholders
Part of the annual bonus of Executive Directors and SET members  
is deferred into shares, helping align senior executives' interests with 
those of shareholders.
The proportion currently deferred into shares is one-third of the 
pre-tax annual bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other 
SET members. The Committee reviews annually whether the 
proportion of bonus to be deferred should be changed in the light of 
market and/or best practice developments. The shares are acquired 
on the open market at the prevailing market price and held for a period 
of three years from the date of acquisition before being delivered to 
individual Executive Directors and other SET members.
In addition to partial bonus deferral, there is a requirement for 
Executive Directors and other SET members to hold shares in the 
Company. The shareholding requirement for the CEO was increased 
in January 2012 from 200% to 300% of base salary, and for the CFO 
from 125% to 200% of base salary. The requirement for all other SET 
members is 125% of base salary.
In all aspects of its work, the Committee considers both the external 
environment in which the Company operates and the guidance issued 
by organisations representing institutional shareholders. It consults the 
Company's largest investors on general and specific remuneration 
and provides an annual opportunity for representatives of those 
investors to meet the Chairman of the Committee and other 
Committee and Board members.
Considering the wider employee context
The Committee sets overall remuneration policy and makes decisions 
about specific remuneration arrangements in the broader context of 
employee remuneration throughout the Group. The Committee 
annually reviews Group remuneration data including bonus data; 
gender and geographical data in relation to base salaries; and 
aggregate data about the shareholding levels of senior managers. In 
particular, in reviewing the base salaries of Executive Directors and 
SET members, the Committee considers the overall level of any salary 
increases being awarded to employees across the Group in the 
relevant year. 
Main work of the Remuneration Committee during the year
The Committee met five times in 2011. The individual attendance 
record of Committee members is set out on page 105. At the invitation 
of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being 
discussed, the CEO; the Executive Vice-President, Human Resources 
& Corporate Affairs; the Global Head, Reward & Employment; and the 
Vice-President, Global Compensation attended one or more 
Committee meetings in 2011 and provided advice and services that 
materially assisted the Committee.
The work of the Committee focused on the following principal matters 
during 2011:
>  A review of the terms of senior executives' remuneration packages 
on appointment, promotion and termination, including the 
remuneration packages on the appointment of a number of senior 
leaders in R&D.
>  The assessment of Group and individual performance against 
performance targets to determine the level of executive bonuses for 
2010 and to set executive bonus performance targets for 2011.
>  The assessment of performance against targets to determine the 
level of vesting in 2011 under the PSP and to set PSP and AZIP 
performance thresholds for awards made in 2011.
>  The determination of awards made under the Group's main LTI 
plans: the PSP, the AZIP and the Global Restricted Stock Plan 
(GRSP) to SET members and other participants.
>  The determination of restricted share awards to a limited number of 
senior executives under the AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan (RSP).
>  The setting of the terms of appointment of Katarina Ageborg as 
Chief Compliance Officer and a SET member.
>  A review of performance metrics used by the R&D organisation.
>  The approval of rules of a new UK all-employee savings-related 
share option scheme, which will be proposed to shareholders for 
approval at the 2012 AGM, to replace the AstraZeneca Savings-
Related Share Option Plan, which expires in 2013.
>  Jointly with the Audit Committee, a review of compensation policy 
across the Commercial organisation. 
>  The review and determination of incentive arrangements below SET 
level for a limited pool of eligible employees in the context of the 
Company's restructuring plans in Commercial and R&D.
>  A review of Group reward data, including average salary data 
analysed by gender.
>  Consideration of the review of the Committee's effectiveness carried 
out by the Board.
>  A benchmarking review of the Committee's activities and policies 
against institutional investor guidelines.
>  A review of the levels of share ownership of Executive Directors, other 
SET members and senior executives immediately below SET level.
>  A review of the pension entitlements of Executive Directors and 
other SET members.
>  A review of the proportion of Executive Directors' and SET 
members' annual cash bonuses that are deferred into shares with  
a three-year vesting period.
>  A review of the performance of Deloitte, the independent adviser  
to the Committee.
>  The submission by the Company of a response to the executive 
remuneration discussion paper published by the UK Department  
for Business, Innovation & Skills in September 2011.
>  The preparation, review and approval (in January 2012) of this Report.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 117 Directors' Remuneration Report
Additional information
Audit
The Executive Directors' pension arrangements disclosed in the 
Pension arrangements section on page 118, the Directors' emoluments 
disclosed in the Directors' emoluments in 2011 section from pages 
123 to 124 and the details of the Directors' interests in Ordinary Shares 
disclosed in the Directors' interests in shares section (excluding the 
Beneficial interests sub-section) from page 125 have been audited by 
KPMG Audit Plc.
Pension arrangements
CEO's pension arrangements
Defined benefit arrangements
David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit 
Pension Plan (US DBP), by virtue of his membership of pension plans 
applicable to legacy Astra Merck employees. On his appointment to 
the Board, the rules of the US DBP were amended to remove bonus 
payments from the calculation of his pensionable pay. Benefits for 
members of the US DBP are delivered on a tax-qualified basis, with 
accrued benefits that exceed specific limits under the plan's formula 
and the US Tax Code being delivered through a supplementary, 
non-qualified plan.
The normal pension age under the US DBP is 65. However, on  
leaving or retiring from employment, David Brennan is eligible to take  
a pension or lump sum equivalent based on accrued service and final 
pensionable pay (ie without actuarial reduction) due to his satisfaction 
of a condition in the pension plan relating to the combined age and 
service exceeding 85 years.
David Brennan's participation in the US DBP is subject to a service 
cap at 35 years' service, which has now been attained and therefore 
service beyond 35 years is not shown in the table below. No further 
service accrual can be earned.
Members and, in the event of death, surviving spouses/dependants 
can elect, in relation to those benefits delivered on a tax-qualified basis 
under the US DBP, to take pensions in lump sum form based on 
actuarial valuation. Members or spouses/dependants may not make 
such an election in relation to any supplementary non-qualified 
benefits which must be taken in lump sum form.
Pension is payable to David Brennan in US dollars. For ease of 
understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds 
sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2011 set out on 
page 124. Transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the 
value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued 
pension annually.
Defined contribution arrangements
In addition, David Brennan (as a US citizen) is a contributing member 
of the US 401(k) savings plan. He also participates in AstraZeneca's 
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP) which is operated as  
a supplemental non-qualified plan in respect of US employees should 
annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions  
under the qualified 401(k) plan. During 2011, total employer matching 
contributions of $96,000 ( 60,000) (2010: $91,000 ( 59,000)) were 
made to his 401(k) plan and EDCP. Member contributions of $719,000 
( 447,000) were paid through salary sacrifice into the plans. 
In the event of a US participant becoming incapacitated, permanent 
health insurance cover will provide continuation of a proportion of 
salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical criteria. In the 
event of the death of a participant prior to retirement, a life assurance 
policy will provide surviving spouses/dependants with a lump sum 
equivalent to one times salary (such salary being capped at the 
maximum pensionable salary under the plan).
CFO's pension arrangements 
Simon Lowth is eligible to join the AstraZeneca Group Self Invested 
Personal Pension (UK Defined Contribution Plan (UK DCP)) at a 
company contribution rate of 24% of annual base salary or, 
alternatively, to take the company contribution as a cash allowance. 
Since joining AstraZeneca, he has elected to take the cash allowance 
in lieu of a pension, which during 2011, amounted to  153,000 
($245,000) (2010:  149,000 ($230,000)).
In the event of a senior employee in the UK DCP (including one who 
has taken an alternative cash allowance) becoming incapacitated, 
permanent health insurance cover provides continuation of a 
proportion of salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical 
criteria. In the event of death prior to retirement, dependants are 
entitled to a lump sum secured from a multiple of 10 times salary 
(capped at  4.3 million).
David Brennan
 000 $000
Defined benefit arrangements
1. Accrued pension at 1 January 2011 972 1,555
2. Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation - -
3. Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 6 10
4. Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service - -
5. Accrued pension at 31 December 2011 978 1,565
6. Employee contributions during 2011 - -
7. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2010 14,211 22,738
8. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2011 14,055 22,488
9. Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions (156) (250)
10. Age at 31 December 2011 58
4
/ 12
11. Pensionable service (years) at 31 December 2011 35
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 118 Directors' Remuneration Report Components of remuneration for all employees
Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of policy Applies to
Base salary (fixed) Base fixed remuneration. Based on conditions in the relevant market and recognising 
the value of an individual's sustained personal performance 
and contribution to the business, taking account of the 
market rate for an individual's skills and experience. 
Benchmarked against external comparators.
All employees
Pension arrangements 
(fixed)
Provision of retirement benefits. Benchmarked against the relevant local  
employment market.
All employees
Benefits (fixed) Provision of standard non-cash employment benefits,  
such as healthcare, insurances and, for certain employees, 
facilitated car purchase arrangements. 
Cost-effective and compatible with relevant welfare 
arrangements and local market norms.
All employees
Short-term bonus 
(variable)
An annual cash incentive opportunity determined by 
reference to Group, functional and individual performance, 
measured over a single financial year of the Company and 
taking into account external expectations of performance.
Differs by market, but the Group performance measures 
ensure that all eligible employees receive an element of 
reward based on the Group's overall financial performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the Committee at  
the start of the year and are derived from the business 
scorecard, the key elements of which are set out in the  
Our strategy section from page 19, and are monitored  
as part of the quarterly business review (QBR) process. 
Embedded into these goals is a commitment to distinction 
through integrity to avoid any damage to reputation. 
Individual goals are based on annual objectives, which  
are linked to functional goals.
Performance measures for the annual bonus in respect  
of Executive Directors are set out in the Variable elements  
of the CEO's and CFO's remuneration in 2011 section on 
page 116.
All eligible 
employees
Deferred bonus plan 
(variable)
Aligns SET members' interests with those of shareholders. SET members must defer a proportion of their short-term 
bonus (one-third of pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors 
and one-sixth for other SET members) into Ordinary Shares 
or ADSs for a three-year period.
SET members
LTI plans (variable) Long-term equity incentive awards to provide individual 
executives and employees with total compensation 
opportunities that are competitive against local market 
practice, for the achievement of operational excellence, 
strong financial performance and actions that are closely 
aligned with the interests of shareholders. The primary 
LTI plans in which SET members participate are the PSP 
and the AZIP.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. SET members  
and other senior 
executives
AstraZeneca Investment Plan. SET members
Share Option Plan (final awards made in 2009). SET members  
and other senior 
executives
Global Restricted Stock Plan. Eligible employees 
globally
Note: Performance measures for the PSP and the AZIP are 
set out in the summary of those plans in the next section.
Other share plans  All employee' share participation arrangements, including 
some that are tax-approved, for example 
in the UK.
Examples include the Share Incentive Plan and the 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
1
.
Eligible employees
Shareholding 
guidelines
Aligning SET members' interests with those of shareholders. The CEO is expected to hold shares equivalent to 300% of 
base salary, the CFO 200% and other SET members 125%.
SET members
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET member's 
remuneration, the Committee considers, both separately  
and in aggregate, each component of the SET member's 
total remuneration.
1
 Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 176.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 119 Directors' Remuneration Report
Summary of the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the AstraZeneca Investment Plan (AZIP)
History
PSP
The PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and provides for the grant of performance share awards (PSP Share Awards) over Ordinary Shares or ADSs 
(together, Shares). 
AZIP
The AZIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and provides for the grant of share awards (AZIP Share Awards) over Shares.
Basis of participation
PSP
Participation in the PSP is highly selective and usually includes only senior employees on the basis of their performance. 
Generally, PSP Share Awards can be granted at any time (although in practice they are awarded annually), but not during a close or prohibited period of the Company. In 
2011, the main grant of PSP Share Awards was made on 28 March, with a smaller grant of Share Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, for example, new 
appointments, promotions and assignments being made on 26 August. The number of Shares subject to a PSP Share Award is determined by reference to the market price 
of Shares over the three-day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
Details of PSP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are shown in the Performance Share Plan table on page 126.
AZIP
Participation in the AZIP is highly selective and usually includes only senior employees on the basis of their performance. 
In 2011, the main grant of AZIP Share Awards was made on 28 March, with a further Share Award approved by the Committee in relation to Katarina Ageborg's appointment 
to the SET on 26 August. The number of Shares subject to an AZIP Share Award is determined by reference to the market price of Shares over the three-day period 
immediately preceding the date of grant.
Details of AZIP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are shown in the AstraZeneca Investment Plan table on page 126.
Individual limit
PSP
Under the PSP rules, in respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum market value of Shares that may in theory be put under a PSP Share Award in respect of 
an employee is 500% of that employee's base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under the PSP, subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
AZIP
Under the AZIP rules, in respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum market value of Shares that may in theory be put under an AZIP Share Award in respect 
of an employee is 500% of that employee's base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under the AZIP, subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
Performance conditions and performance targets
PSP
Other than in exceptional circumstances, which are prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting of PSP Share Awards is contingent on the satisfaction of specified performance 
targets (balanced equally between cash flow and TSR) and continued employment with the Group. In addition to the satisfaction of these performance targets, PSP Share 
Awards will generally not vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Fifty percent of the award is based on relative TSR against a selected peer group of global pharmaceutical companies, of which:
>  25% of the maximum award vests for performance at the median of the peer group; 
>  75% of the maximum award vests for upper quartile performance; and
>  100% of the maximum award may vest at the Committee's discretion if the Company's TSR performance is substantially better than that of the upper quartile of the 
comparator group. For PSP Share Awards to vest at this level, the Company would need to have sustained a level of performance significantly in excess of upper quartile 
over a period of years and the Committee would need to be satisfied that this was warranted.
The peer group for the TSR measure is: Abbott, BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GSK, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Sanofi-Aventis. 
TSR measures share price growth, and dividends reinvested in respect of a notional number of shares from the beginning of the relevant performance period to the end of it, 
and ranks the companies in the selected comparator group by reference to their TSR achieved over that period. The rank which the Company's TSR achieves over the 
performance period will determine how many Shares will vest under the relevant PSP Share Award. Payouts against performance in relation to TSR for PSP Share Awards 
are expressed as a percentage of the maximum PSP Share Award currently payable, shown within a range of 0% to 100%. This presentation is shown in the table below.
TSR ranking of the Company Vesting %
Below median 0
Median 25
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata
Upper quartile 75
Significantly above upper quartile Up to 100
In addition to the above TSR performance target being met for each PSP Share Award, the Committee has to satisfy itself that achievement of the TSR performance target is 
a genuine reflection of the Group's underlying financial performance. It has the discretion to prevent PSP Share Awards from vesting or only to allow them to partially vest 
where this appears to the Committee to be warranted.
Fifty percent of the award vests subject to the achievement of the free cash flow target, which operates as a cumulative cash flow target over the same three-year performance 
period as the TSR measure. 
The measure for the cash flow target is net cash flow (before distributions) and the level of vesting will be based on a sliding scale between a threshold cash flow target  
of $16 billion and an upper target of $23 billion. Twenty five percent of the relevant portion of the award will vest for achievement of the threshold target, rising on a sliding 
scale to full vesting for achievement of the upper target as shown in the table below. Net cash flow is considered to be the most appropriate measure of cash flow 
performance because it relates to the residual cash available to finance additional investment in specific business needs, debt repayments and our distribution policy.
The cash flow measure encompasses a number of important elements of operational and financial performance and helps to align executives' rewards with shareholder value 
creation. The level of vesting of this element is based on a sliding scale against a target that is intended to represent a significant challenge for the business. It is intended that 
the Committee should have the discretion to adjust, but on an exceptional basis only, the free cash flow target during the performance period for material factors that might 
otherwise distort the performance measure in either direction. This allows performance to be assessed against targets that have been set on a consistent basis. For example, 
adjustments may be required to reflect exchange rate movements, significant acquisitions or divestments, and major legal and taxation settlements. Any major adjustments to 
the calculation are disclosed to shareholders. There is no retesting of performance.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 120 Directors' Remuneration Report Performance conditions and performance targets continued
Adjusted cumulative cash flow Vesting %
Less than $16 billion 0
$16 billion 25
Between $16 billion and $23 billion Pro rata
$23 billion and above 100
AZIP
The AZIP is aligned to AstraZeneca's targeted product development cycle, reflecting the long-term investment horizons that are a feature of the industry. The performance 
requirement attached to awards under the AZIP is a combination of dividend and dividend cover tests, assessed over a period of up to four financial years beginning at the 
start of the first financial year of the Company in which the award is granted. 
The AZIP is operated over a four-year performance period (Performance Period) and a four-year holding period (Holding Period). At the end of the Performance Period,  
the extent to which the performance hurdle has been met will determine the number of Shares in respect of which the AZIP Share Award will vest at the end of the  
Holding Period. 
The Committee's intention in its choice of proposed performance tests has been to establish a performance requirement that motivates financial business performance that 
will generate returns for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended time period. 
The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2011 is that:
>  The annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary Shares is increased from $2.55 over the four-year Performance Period ($2.55 being the full-year dividend for 
2010); and 
>  Dividend cover (based on reported earnings before restructuring costs) does not fall below 1.5 times.
The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2010 is that:
>  The annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary Shares is increased from $2.30 over the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013 ($2.30 being the full-year 
dividend for 2009); and 
>  Dividend cover over the same period (based on reported earnings before restructuring costs) does not fall below 1.5 times. 
Performance Period/Holding Period and vesting dates
PSP
In the case of all PSP Share Awards granted to date, the performance target relates to the three-year period commencing on 1 January of the year of grant. Therefore, for 
PSP Share Awards made in 2011, the performance period runs from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013. The vesting date is the third anniversary of the date of grant.
AZIP
Under the rules of the AZIP, the performance period is the period of up to eight years (and not less than three years) from 1 January of the financial year in which the AZIP 
Share Award is made. The holding period starts at the end of the performance period and ends eight years from the first day of the performance period. As described above, 
the AZIP is currently operated over a four-year performance period (Performance Period) and a four-year holding period (Holding Period).
Cessation of employment
PSP
If a participant ceases to be in relevant employment, the award will be time pro-rated and vest at the end of the Performance Period, subject to the achievement of the 
relevant performance targets measured over the entire Performance Period.
AZIP
During the Performance Period: If a participant ceases to be in employment (and also, if relevant, an Executive Director) with the Group during the Performance Period, 
his/her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his/her cessation is because of death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of his/her 
employing company, or because of a sale or transfer out of the Group (each a Good Leaver Reason). In these circumstances, the maximum number of Ordinary Shares 
comprised in an AZIP Share Award will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the period of employment between grant and 
cessation, relative to the four-year Performance Period. In circumstances where the Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability (being compassionate 
circumstances), the performance hurdle will be assessed and the AZIP Share Award may vest following cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise. On cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the pro-rated AZIP Share Award will remain subject to the performance hurdle, which will be 
assessed at the end of the Performance Period, unless the Committee determines that special circumstances apply, and the AZIP Share Award may then vest on the later 
of: (i) the end of the Performance Period; or (ii) 24 months after cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise. 
During the Holding Period: If a participant ceases to be in employment (and also, if relevant, an Executive Director) with the Group during the Holding Period, his/her AZIP 
Share Award will generally lapse, unless his/her cessation is because of a Good Leaver Reason. In circumstances where the Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or 
disability (being compassionate circumstances), the AZIP Share Award will vest in respect of all the Ordinary Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award (as calculated at the end of 
the Performance Period) as soon as possible following cessation of employment. On cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the AZIP Share Award will vest 
in respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award (as calculated at the end of the Performance Period) on the earlier of: (i) the end of the period of 24 months from the 
date of cessation of employment; and (ii) the end of the Holding Period. The Committee does have discretion to determine otherwise if it believes the circumstances justify this.
2011 performance
PSP
The TSR graphs on page 124 compare for each PSP Share Award, the Company's TSR performance against the TSR for companies in the comparator group from the first 
day of the relevant performance period to 31 December 2011. At the end of 2011, the Company is on track to meet the cash flow target.
AZIP
The full-year dividend was $2.80 for 2011 and dividend cover did not fall below the 1.5 times threshold.
Claw-back of Shares
PSP
In the event that an employee leaves the Company's employment for anything other than a Good Leaver Reason, any unvested award shall lapse unless the Committee 
decides otherwise.
AZIP
The Committee can claw back some or all of the Ordinary Shares that are the subject of a participant's AZIP Share Award at any time during the Performance Period and the 
Holding Period if, in the opinion of the Committee (acting fairly and reasonably), any of the underlying Company performance, the occurrence of an event that causes or is 
very likely to cause reputational damage to the Company, or serious misconduct by the participant, warrants the claw-back. If this discretion is exercised, the AZIP Share 
Award will be deemed to have been granted over the reduced number of Ordinary Shares. No Ordinary Shares were subject to claw-back in 2011.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 121 Directors' Remuneration Report
Summary of other plans
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan
The Share Option Plan (SOP) was approved by shareholders for a period of 10 years and expired in May 2010. 
Details of outstanding grants of option awards (Option Awards) granted to Executive Directors are shown in the Share option plans table on page 127 .
The Committee imposed performance conditions in respect of the exercise of such Option Awards by SET members (including the Executive 
Directors) which, in the view of the Committee, were considered appropriately stretching. In order for Option Awards to vest, the EPS of the 
Group must increase at least in line with the UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum on average, over a three-year period, the base figure 
being the EPS for the financial year preceding the date of grant, with no retesting. In addition, since the review of executive remuneration in 
2004, the Committee has included a condition that, if an event occurs which causes material reputational damage to the Company, such that  
it is not appropriate for the Option Awards to vest and become exercisable, the Committee can make a determination to reflect this. No such 
determination was made in 2011.
Global Restricted Stock Plan
The AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan (GRSP) was introduced in 2010 and provides for the grant of restricted stock awards (Stock 
Awards) over Shares. The GRSP is operated for below SET-level employees only.
In 2011, Stock Awards were made under the GRSP on 28 March, with other Stock Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, for 
example, new appointments, promotions and assignments being granted on 26 August. Stock Awards granted under the GRSP do not involve 
the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares but rather rely on the market purchase of Ordinary Shares that have already been issued. There 
is no increase in the overall quantum of awards applicable to target employees through the introduction of the GRSP. 
Restricted Share Plan
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan (RSP) was introduced in 2008 and provides for the granting of restricted share awards (RS Awards)  
to key employees, excluding Executive Directors. RS Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates and may not operate in 
respect of Ordinary Shares which are newly issued or transferred from treasury. The RSP was used seven times in 2011 to make RS Awards to 
a limited number of key senior executives in specific situations considered by the Committee. The Committee has responsibility for agreeing any 
RS Awards under the RSP and for setting the policy for the way in which the RSP should operate. 
Other plans
In addition to the plans described above, the Company operates the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca 
All-Employee Share Plan in the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & Customs approved plans. Certain Executive Directors and other SET members 
are eligible to participate in these plans, more detailed descriptions of which can be found in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 176. 
Dilution under share plans
Other than the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca All-Employee Share Plan, which operate in the UK only, 
and the SOP, none of the Company's share plans has a dilutive effect because they do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary 
Shares but rather rely on the market purchase of Ordinary Shares that have already been issued.
Terms of employment for Executive Directors
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are set out below. Either the Company or the Executive Director may 
terminate the service contract on 12 months' notice. It is the Committee's intention that, in the event of early termination of an Executive 
Director's employment, any compensation payable under his/her service contract should not exceed the salary and benefits that would have 
been received had the contractual notice period been worked and this may be further reduced in line with the Executive Director's duty to 
mitigate losses. None of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an 
automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice period. Compensation for any bonus entitlement will be assessed initially as  
 on target' but subject to adjustment by the Committee to take account of the particular circumstances of the termination.
Details of Executive Directors' service contracts at 31 December 2011 are shown in the table below:
Executive Director Date of service contract 
Unexpired term at 
31 December 2011 
Notice 
period
David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months
Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months
Policy on external appointments and retention of fees
Subject to specific Board approval in each case, Executive Directors and other SET members may accept external appointments as non-executive 
directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them, provided always that such external appointments are not considered  
by the Board to prevent or reduce the ability of the executive to perform their role within the Group to the required standard. Simon Lowth is a  
Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC. In respect of such position, he received fees of  105,000 for his services in 2011.
Non-Executive Directors
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract but all have letters of appointment. In accordance with the Company's Articles, 
following their appointment, Directors must retire at each AGM and may present themselves for election or re-election. None of the Non-Executive 
Directors has any provision in their letter of appointment giving them a right to compensation payable upon early termination of their appointment. 
They are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or the grant of share awards or options. No pension contributions are made on their behalf.
The annual Board fees applicable to Non-Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, are set out in the Non-Executive 
Directors' fees table on page 123. In addition to the mandatory shareholding requirement imposed on all Directors under the Articles described 
in the Directors section on page 208, the Board encourages each Non-Executive Director to build up, over time, a shareholding in the Company 
with a value approximately equivalent to the basic annual fee for a Non-Executive Director ( 75,000) or, in the case of the Chairman, 
approximately equivalent to his annual fee ( 500,000).
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 122 Directors' Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors' fees
 
Chairman's fee 500,000
Basic fee 75,000
Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000
Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000
Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee
1
20,000
Membership of the Science Committee 10,000
Chairman of the Science Committee
1
7,000
1
 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Directors' emoluments in 2011
The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards,  
paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2011 was  6,535,000 ($10,458,000).  
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars. All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits for 
Directors are established in pounds sterling.
Directors' remuneration - pounds sterling
Name
Salary 
and fees
  000
Bonus 
cash
  000
Bonus 
Shares
1
 
 000
Taxable 
benefits
 000
Other 
payments 
and 
allowances 
 000
Total
2011 
 000
Total 
2010 
 000
Total
2009
 000
Louis Schweitzer 500 - - - - 500 456 325
David Brennan 997
2
884 442 24 1,023
3
3,370 3,044 3,186
Simon Lowth 636 513 257 6 373
4
1,785 1,642 1,426
Bruce Burlington 98 - - - - 98 33 -
Jean-Philippe Courtois 95 - - - - 95 80 75
Michele Hooper 145 - - - - 145 120 100
Rudy Markham 110 - - - - 110 90 75
Nancy Rothwell 107 - - - - 107 96 92
Shriti Vadera 95 - - - - 95 - -
John Varley 110 - - - - 110 99 95
Marcus Wallenberg 85 - - - - 85 71 60
Former Directors
Jane Henney 35
5
- - - - 35 90 85
Others - - - - - - 59 659
Total 3,013 1,397 699 30 1,396 6,535 5,880 6,178
 
Directors' remuneration - US dollars
Name
Salary 
and fees
 $000
Bonus 
cash
$000
Bonus 
Shares
1
 
$000
Taxable 
benefits
$000
Other 
payments 
and 
allowances 
$000
Total
2011 
$000
Total 
2010 
$000
Total
2009
$000
Louis Schweitzer 800 - - - - 800 705 504
David Brennan 1,596
2
1,415 707 38 1,637
3
5,393 4,705 4,937
Simon Lowth 1,018 821 411 10 597
4
2,857 2,537 2,209
Bruce Burlington 157 - - - - 157 51 -
Jean-Philippe Courtois 152 - - - - 152 124 116
Michele Hooper 232 - - - - 232 185 155
Rudy Markham 176 - - - - 176 139 116
Nancy Rothwell 171 - - - - 171 148 143
Shriti Vadera 152 - - - - 152 - -
John Varley 176 - - - - 176 153 147
Marcus Wallenberg 136 - - - - 136 110 93
Former Directors
Jane Henney 56
5
- - - - 56 139 132
Others - - - - - - 92 1,021
Total 4,822 2,236 1,118 48 2,234 10,458 9,088 9,573
1
  These figures represent that portion of the 2011 bonuses required to be deferred into Ordinary Shares to be held for a three-year period under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
2
  This figure includes a sum of  447,000 ($719,000) in respect of member contributions to the 401(k) plan and to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan which was paid into the plans by 
means of a salary sacrifice (see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 118 for further details).
3
  Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash of  880,000 ($1,408,000) on the vesting of a PSP Share Award and  73,000 ($117,000) on the release of Ordinary Shares under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan, in each case paid in respect of dividends accrued.
4
  Relates to remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZeneca's UK flexible benefits programme and cash of  318,000 ($509,000) on the vesting of a PSP Share Award and  6,000 
($10,000) on the release of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan, in each case paid in respect of dividends accrued.
5
  Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 28 April 2011.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 123 Directors' Remuneration Report
In the tables in the Directors' emoluments in 2011 section on page 123, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars 
at the average exchange rate for the year in question. These rates were:
GBP/USD
2011 0.625
2010 0.647
2009 0.645
Details of share options exercised by Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options and of awards under the LTI plans 
in the year are given in the Directors' interests in shares section from page 125.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Transactions with Directors
There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2011 or 2010.
Total shareholder return
The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph showing TSR over a five-year period in respect of a holding of the Company's shares, plotted 
against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index is 
calculated. The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out below, we have 
selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index. This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling five-year period. We have also 
included a  Pharmaceutical peers (average)', which reflects the TSR of the same comparator group used for the PSP graphs below.
The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of a holding of the Company's shares over the relevant performance period be compared with the 
TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical companies (as described on page 120). The graphs below show how the Company's TSR performance 
has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator group from the first day in the relevant three-year performance period 
in respect of each Share Award to 31 December 2011 and how the Company ranks against those other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to the 
start of the relevant performance period (as stipulated in the PSP) and, for the purposes of the graphs below, over the last three months of 2011. 
TSR over a five-year period
160
140
120
100
80
January
2007
January
2008
January
2009
January
2010
January
2011
January
2012
 AstraZeneca  
 Pharmaceutical peers (average)  
 FTSE 100 
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 (%)
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
-5
BMS PFI GSK LLY AL RCH SA J&J MRK AZ NOV
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2011 (%)
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
BMS GSK LLY PFI AZ J&J AL MRK SA NOV RCH
Key: AZ AstraZeneca, AL Abbott Laboratories, BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
GSK GlaxoSmithKline, J&J Johnson & Johnson, LLY Eli Lilly, MRK Merck, 
NOV Novartis, PFI Pfizer, RCH Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, SA Sanofi-Aventis
TSR - AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 (%)
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
BMS MRK GSK AZ PFI SA LLY J&J AL NOV RCH NOV
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 124 Directors' Remuneration Report Directors' interests in shares
Beneficial interests
The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors (including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined 
in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 or on the date of resignation of 
such Director (if earlier). All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated. However, interests in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the 
subject of PSP Share Awards, AZIP Share Awards and/or the Deferred Bonus Plan discussed in this Report, are not included in the table below 
but are shown in the Performance Share Plan, AstraZeneca Investment Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables from page 126. No Director or 
senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they have different voting  
rights from other shareholders. None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Company's subsidiaries. Between 
31 December 2011 and 2 February 2012, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below. 
Beneficial interest 
in Ordinary
Shares at 
1 January 2011 or 
(if later) appointment date
Change to beneficial 
interest
Beneficial interest 
in Ordinary
Shares at 
31 December 2011 or 
(if earlier) resignation date
Louis Schweitzer 16,615 - 16,615
David Brennan 186,982 59,192 246,174
Simon Lowth 9,346 44,880 54,226
Bruce Burlington 553 - 553
Jean-Philippe Courtois 2,635 - 2,635
Jane Henney
1
1,314 - 1,314
Michele Hooper 2,400 - 2,400
Rudy Markham 1,940 512 2,452
Nancy Rothwell 1,314 518 1,832
Shriti Vadera 3,000 - 3,000
John Varley 1,294 450 1,744
Marcus Wallenberg 63,646 - 63,646
1
  Ceased to be a Director on 28 April 2011.
Unitised stock plans
David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests in the following plans which were awarded to him  
prior to him becoming CEO: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the 
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan. These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has 
been deferred (and are not incentive awards in their own right). Participants hold units in each plan, which represent a long-term equity interest 
in the Company. A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs. The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of  
the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position. The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights. David Brennan  
is deemed to have a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs. 
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
Unitised stock plan
ADSs held at 
1 January 2011
Net ADSs acquired
during 2011
ADSs held 
at 31 December 2011
AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 37,741 2,261 40,002
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 8,523 499 9,022
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 125 Directors' Remuneration Report
Performance Share Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2011 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP are not included in the 
Beneficial interests in Ordinary Shares table on page 125 but are shown below:
Number of 
Ordinary Shares
Award price
(pence)
Price on 
vesting 
date (pence) Grant date
1
Vesting 
date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2008 Share Award 161,546 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
2009 Share Award 133,347 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 - 31.12.11
2010 Share Award 127,520 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 - 31.12.12
Total at 1 January 2011 422,413
Discretionary enhancement of 2008 Share Award
2
40,386
Vesting of 2008 Share Award
2
(201,932)
3,5
2874
2011 Share Award 131,075 2853 28.03.11 28.03.14 01.01.11 - 31.12.13
Total at 31 December 2011 391,942
Simon Lowth
2008 Share Award 58,448 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 - 31.12.10
2009 Share Award 54,276 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 - 31.12.11
2010 Share Award 52,009 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 - 31.12.12
Total at 1 January 2011 164,733
Discretionary enhancement of 2008 Share Award
2
14,612
Vesting of 2008 Share Award
2
(73,060)
4,5
2874
2011 Share Award 53,459 2853 28.03.11 28.03.14 01.01.11 - 31.12.13
Total at 31 December 2011 159,744
1
  UK date convention applies.
2
  The Remuneration Committee used its discretion to determine that Share Awards granted in 2008 should vest in 2011 at 125%, based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets (which 
are set out in the Vesting of PSP awards in 2011 and 2012 section on page 116).
3
  201,932 Ordinary Shares vested after the application of the 125% vesting percentage. Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 98,219 
Ordinary Shares.
4
  73,060 Ordinary Shares vested after the application of the 125% vesting percentage. Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneficially interested in a net number of 35,799 
Ordinary Shares.
5
  Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in  Other payments and allowances' in the Directors' remuneration tables from 
page 123.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2011 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the AZIP are not included in the 
Beneficial interests in Ordinary Shares table on page 125 but are shown below:
Number of 
Ordinary Shares
Award price
(pence) Grant date
1
Vesting
date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2010 Share Award 21,253 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 - 31.12.13
Total at 1 January 2011 21,253
2011 Share Award 21,845 2853 28.03.11 01.01.19 01.01.11 - 31.12.14
Total at 31 December 2011 43,098
Simon Lowth
2010 Share Award 8,668 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 - 31.12.13
Total at 1 January 2011 8,668
2011 Share Award 8,909 2853 28.03.11 01.01.19 01.01.11 - 31.12.14
Total at 31 December 2011 17,577
1
 UK date convention applies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 126 Directors' Remuneration Report Deferred Bonus Plan
As described on page 117, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET members to defer a certain proportion of any short-term 
bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs. The interests of Directors at 31 December 2011 in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject 
of awards under these arrangements are not included in the Beneficial interests in Ordinary Shares table on page 125 but are shown below:
Number of 
Ordinary Shares
Award price
(pence)
Price on
vesting
date
(pence)
Grant
date
1
Vesting
date
1
David Brennan
2008 award 16,810 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
2009 award 17,992 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
2010 award 20,718 2817.5 25.02.10 25.02.13
Total at 1 January 2011 55,520
Vesting of 2008 award (16,810)
2,4
2945
2011 award 17,725 2977 25.02.11 25.02.14
Total at 31 December 2011 56,435
Simon Lowth
2008 award 1,340 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
2009 award 9,775 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
2010 award 9,760 2817.5 25.02.10 25.02.13
Total at 1 January 2011 20,875
Vesting of 2008 award (1,340)
3,4
2945
2011 award 10,281 2977 25.02.11 25.02.14
Total at 31 December 2011 29,816
1
  UK date convention applies.
2
  Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 8,213 Ordinary Shares.
3
  Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneficially interested in a net number of 656 Ordinary Shares.
4
  Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in  Other payments and allowances' in the Directors' remuneration tables 
from page 123.
Share option plans 
The interests of Directors who served during 2011, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the SOP are included in the 
following table. None of the Directors in the table below holds options under the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan. There were 
no grants of options made to Directors under any of the plans in 2011.
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares under 
option
1
Exercise 
price per 
Ordinary 
Share
2
Market price 
on date 
of exercise
First day 
exercisable
3,4
Last day
exercisable
3,4
David Brennan At 1 January 2011 - options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
- market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 31 December 2011 - options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
- market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 1 January 2011 - options over ADSs 322,519 $45.35 29.03.04 23.03.15
- market price above option price (ADSs) 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15
- market price at or below option price (ADSs) 211,532 $47.97 29.03.04 25.03.14
Exercised 18 February 2011 (29,354) $47.14 $49.10 29.03.04 28.03.11
Exercised 18 February 2011 (39,942) $47.73 $49.10 29.06.04 28.06.11
At 31 December 2011 - options over ADSs 253,223 $44.76 28.03.05 23.03.15
- market price above option price (ADSs) 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15
- market price at or below option price (ADSs) 142,236 $48.21 28.03.05 25.03.14
Simon Lowth At 1 January 2011 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19
- market price above option price 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price - n/a n/a n/a
Exercised 9 August 2011 (70,138) 1882p 2568p 28.03.11 27.03.18
At 31 December 2011 65,131 2280p 27.03.12 26.03.19
- market price above option price 65,131 2280p 27.03.12 26.03.19
- market price at or below option price - n/a n/a n/a
1
  Vesting is subject to satisfying the relevant performance conditions set out in each of the relevant share option plans. Further information on the performance conditions applicable to the SOP is set 
out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on page 122. 
2
  Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3
  First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there may be shorter exercise periods.
4
  UK date convention applies. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
Corporate Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report 127 Directors' Remuneration Report
Gains by Directors on exercise of share options
The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years are set out below.
Year
Gains made by Directors 
on the exercise of share options
$
Gains made by the 
highest paid Director
$
2011 882,089 112,254
2010 260,182 11,454
2009 - -
During 2011, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows:
Stock Exchange
Ordinary Share/ADS market price 
at 31 December 2011
Range of the Ordinary Share/ADS 
market price during 2011
London 2975p 2543.5p to 3194p
Stockholm 316.0 SEK 269.3 SEK to 328.5 SEK
New York $46.29 $40.95 to $52.40
On behalf of the Board
A C N Kemp 
Company Secretary 
2 February 2012
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 128 Directors' Remuneration Report