 Atlantic Global Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13
www.atlantic-global.co.uk
Remuneration and Employee Report
The Remuneration Committee presents this report to shareholders on behalf of the Board. The disclosures in this report
are made on a voluntary basis and therefore are not intended to comply with the Directors Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. Details of Directors remuneration in the year to 31 December 2003 are given in note 4 to the Accounts,
and details of Directors shareholdings and share options are given in the Directors Report.
Membership of Remuneration Committee
David Cox (Chairman) Non-Executive
Adrian Bradshaw (Director) Non-Executive
Eugene Blaine (Managing Director) Executive
Remuneration policy
Executive Directors' remuneration packages consist of various components and may contain any or all of the following:
Basic salary Pension contributions Car allowance Performance linked bonus
Share options Life assurance Private healthcare insurance
Scope and objectives
Our ability to attract, retain and motivate Directors, senior managers and staff of appropriate calibre and experience is
essential to the success of the Group. The Remuneration Committee' s primary responsibility is to ensure that the Company
policy supports this objective whilst avoiding unnecessary cost.
Company bonus scheme
The short-term reward for employees and Directors is in the form of a bonus scheme. Performance related elements of
remuneration form a significant proportion of executives' total remuneration packages and have been designed to align
the executive interests with those of shareholders. The bonus scheme is based on total Group profitability, including
stretch targets for the Group. Individual bonus schemes have been put in place where appropriate in which, to reach a
maximum payment would require exceptional achievement, substantially out performing budget targets. Bonus payments
are not pensionable.
Pension contributions
The Group operates a contributory money purchase pension scheme for the benefit of all employees. Basic salary only
is pensionable. Pension contributions for most employees are available through salary sacrifice, which is matched up to
a maximum Company contribution of 5%. Pension contributions on behalf of the Managing Director are 10% before any
salary sacrifice.
Share options 
Share options are a means by which the Group rewards and motivates employees and Directors in the medium to long
term. If the Group achieves targets and the full bonus is paid this will increase the share price, which will lead to more
long-term benefits for employees and shareholders alike. Executive Directors' share option details are given in the
Directors' Report, and employee share options details are given in the share capital note 17 to the accounts. Share options
can be awarded based on two criteria, merit or attracting new senior employees to the Company. 
The more committed and focused employees are, the more successful the Group will be and the more reward the
employees will receive, not just financially but also from a personal sense of achievement, job satisfaction, security, and
the enjoyment of working together as a team.
Directors emoluments 
The total amount paid to the Directors for their services in the year to 31 December 2003 was  233,000 (2002:  228,000). 