 The Remuneration Committee comprises the non-
executive directors and is chaired by Roger McDowell. 
The principal objective of the Committee is to 
attract, retain and motivate talented people with a 
competitive package of incentives and awards linked 
to Group performance and aligned with the interests 
of shareholders. The Committee uses the services of 
independent external advisers as required. 
The Committee met on six occasions during 2013, with 
business including reviews of the remuneration for the 
new chief executive officer, granting of share options to 
the chief executive officer and decisions relating to the 
salary of the interim chief executive and decisions relating 
to bonus awards. The Directors' Remuneration Report 
includes the outcome of these considerations.
During quarter 4 the Committee engaged Deloitte LLP as 
external advisors to assist in the development of the new 
LTIP . This work continued into quarter 1 of 2014 and has 
resulted in a scheme with the following attributes:
 A company share options plan, allowing annual 
awards of shares in the Company to be made to 
participants
 A three vesting year period, with annual performance 
conditions based on Group performance
 Performance conditions for executives based on 
targets for Total Shareholder Returns and EPS growth 
 Awards ranging from 75% of salary, for certain senior 
managers, to 200% of salary, for the chief executive 
officer.
The Committee will undertake a consultation exercise with 
shareholders prior to finalising the details of the scheme. 
The first awards are expected to be granted under the 
new scheme during quarter 2 of 2014. 
The new LTIP will provide a scheme which ensures that 
management incentives are closely linked to improving 
shareholder returns. 
Chairman
Roger McDowell
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Members
Roger McDowell
Jim Meredith
Rory Macnamara
Andrew Bryce
Meetings
Total Number of Committee 
meetings: 6
53
Augean PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
Remuneration Committee Report
Directors' Report Our Governance Our Governance