 AUHUA CLEAN ENERGY PLC  11  
AUHUA CLEAN ENERGY PLC
The remuneration committee presents the Directors' remuneration report for the period ended 31 December 2011.
A Remuneration Committee comprising of two Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director was established to 
make recommendations to the Board on the Company's policy and structure for all remuneration of the Directors and senior 
management. 
The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to review the remuneration policy for the Directors and other senior management 
and to determine the level of remuneration package in order to attract, motivate and retain talent. The Remuneration Committee 
will consult with the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer in respect of their recommendation in determining 
the remuneration of the Directors and senior management.
REMUNERATION POLICY
Executive remuneration packages are prudently designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of the necessary calibre 
and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.  The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and 
key members of senior management and the determination of their annual remuneration package is undertaken by the 
Remuneration Committee. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board, and within the limits set 
out in the Articles of Association.  Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing the 
Board' s permission is sought.
The Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board, having regard to the level of fees payable to Non-Executive 
Directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfill in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and 
the time committed to the Company' s affair .
The policy of the Board is to review the level of Directors' fees and remuneration from time to time. During the year ended 
31 December, the remuneration committee carried out a review of the level of directors' fees and remuneration, and decided 
that the annual fees should remain unchanged for the present.
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT
The Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company or subsidiary in addition to their appointment as directors of 
the Company. The Company' s policy is that directors have contracts for an indefinite term, providing for a maximum of six 
months notice.
The terms of their appointment provide that at every annual general meeting one-third of the Directors are bound to retire and 
be subjected to reappointment by Shareholders. The terms also provided that the contract is to continue until termination 
by either party giving six months' notice or by resolution of the shareholders. There are no liquidated damages or other 
compensation payable by the Company upon early termination of the directors.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION DETAILS
The directors received no remuneration in respect of their role as directors of the company during the period under review.
DIRECTORS' 
REMUNERATION REPORT 12  ANNUAL REPOR T 2011
AUHUA CLEAN ENERGY PLC
DIRECTORS' INTEREST
The Directors' interest in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2011 and at the date of this report, 20 June 2012 
are shown below:
Ordinary shares held on 
31 December 2011
Ordinary shares held on 
20 June 2012
Director Direct Deemed Direct Deemed
Tham Wai Mun Raphael 40,744,000* Nil 40,744,000* Nil
Chen Anxiang Nil 14,934,000** Nil 14,934,000**
Thng Tien Lung Nil Nil Nil Nil
Guan Yiqun Nil Nil Nil Nil
Derek Marsh Nil Nil 25,000 NIl
James Yip Mun Foong Nil Nil Nil Nil
*  Of the 40,744,000 Ordinary Shares in which Mr Tham Wai Mun Raphael is interested, 22,500,000 are held through 
Auhua Holdings and 3,310,000 are held through Chippenham Management Ltd, of both of which Mr Tham is the 
sole shareholder. In addition to Mr Tham's interest in 40,744,000 Ordinary Shares, as stated at footnote ** below, Mr 
Chen Anxiang's interest in 14,934,000 Ordinary Shares is, and will continue to be, held in trust by Mr Tham Wai Mun 
Raphael pending Mr Chen Anxiang obtaining the requisite approvals, if any, following Admission, at which point Mr 
Chen's interest shall be held through Auhua International Holdings Ltd, a company incorporated and registered in the 
BVI and of which Mr Chen is the sole shareholder.
**  Mr Chen Anxiang's interest is, and will continue to be, held in trust by Mr Raphael Tham Wai Mun pending Mr Chen 
Anxiang obtaining the requisite approvals in relation to his holding of Ordinary Shares, if any, following Admission, 
at which point Mr Chen Anxiang's interest shall be held through Auhua International Holdings Ltd, a company 
incorporated and registered inthe BVI and of which Mr Chen is the sole shareholder.
DIRECTORS' 
REMUNERATION REPORT