 Remuneration Report
A An nn nu ua al l  R Re ep po or rt t  & &  A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s  2 20 01 14 4  Aurasian Minerals plc 09
Remuneration policies
Financial packages for Directors are established by reference to those
prevailing in the employment market for executives of equivalent
status both in terms of level of responsibility of the position and their
achievement of recognised job qualifications and skills.
The Company's policy on remuneration is to:
  attract and retain people of the appropriate quality by paying
competitive remuneration packages relevant to each person's role
and experience and the external market. The packages include
employment related benefits; and
  reward Directors for creating shareholder value through share
options and other rewards.
The packages recognise that each Non-Executive Director spends
considerably more time on the Company's affairs than is usual, and
aims to keep the cash remuneration as low a level as possible through
the award of shares and share options. 
Directors' and Officers' insurances
During the year, Directors' and officers' liability insurance was
maintained for Directors and other officers of the Group as permitted
by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors' emoluments
Details of the Director's emoluments for the year ended 31st March
2014 are set out in note 10 to the accounts, together with the amounts
paid to former Directors. 
Pam Mapes, wife of Tony Shearer, was paid  600 (2013:  1,075) in
respect of her services in redesigning and changing the website during
the year.
Puma Resources Limited, a company owned by Patrick Gorman and
his wife, was paid  4,100 (2013:  19,577) in respect of consulting
services during the year.
Directors' shares and share options
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares and options of
the Company as at 31st March 2014 and as at 30th June 2014 (the last
practical date before the date of this report) were, as far as the
Directors are aware, as set out in the sections of the Directors' Report
above entitled Substantial shareholders and Directors' interests in
shares  and Share capital, options and warrants .
Terms of the Directors service contracts
Chris Goss, Patrick Gorman and Tony Shearer have employment
contracts with the Company under which they are entitled to fees
payable to each of  2,000 per month.
Other than their service contracts, no director has a material interest in
a contract with the Company. 
Reappointment of Directors
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, Patrick
Gorman and me will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
and, being eligible, offer ourselves for re-election.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
Chris Goss, Chairman
2nd July 2014 
17614 Aurasian Minerals Annual Report:Layout 1 04/07/2014 10:31 Page 9