 23
Autoclenz ANNu Al RepoR t 2011
Our Performance Our financials
21248.04    17.04.2012  Proof 5
Our Business Our Governance
commitment
Each Director is required to disclose their other significant commitments to the Board prior to appointment and when there is any 
significant change. Any potential conflicts of interest are reviewed at Board Meetings.
development, Information, support and evaluation
Each Director takes responsibility for ensuring that he remains up to date in his skills and knowledge of the Company. Where 
appropriate the Company provides the resources to meet Directors' development requirements.
All Directors are given a monthly management pack covering Financial, Operational and Corporate Governance issues. The 
Directors have access to the Company Secretary at all times. The Company Secretary ensures Board procedures are followed and 
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Performance evaluations of the Board, the Audit Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and the Senior Management of the Company is done internally.
r e-election
The articles require Directors to retire and seek re-election at the third Annual General Meeting after the General Meeting that he 
was last appointed or reappointed.
Mr Leek and Mr Clingo were reappointed in 2011. At the 2012 Annual General Meeting Mr Stone and Mr Rummery will seek re-
election.
accountability and audit
financial r eporting
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects through the 
Chairman's Statement, Finance Review, Corporate Governance Report, Remuneration Report and Directors' Report.
risk Management and Internal control
The Directors are responsible for the Company's system of internal control which aims to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure 
that proper accounting records are maintained, ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and ensure the 
effectiveness and efficiency of operations including the assessment and management of risk. A system of internal control is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance particularly against misstatement or loss.
Autoclenz has a well established and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control to identify, evaluate and 
manage risks faced by the Group. The Group Board meet annually for a strategic review, the purpose of which is to review the 
Group's position against its strategic targets and to formulate and update a strategic framework to achieve the Groups financial 
targets for the following three years. The Directors and the Executive Management of the Company are accountable for their 
conduct and performance within the agreed strategies. A Management Structure exists with clearly defined lines of responsibility 
and the appropriate levels of delegation.
The Group and its operations are subject to a detailed annual budget process. Actual performance during the year is monitored 
monthly against budget, forecast and the previous year. Full year forecasts are updated at regular intervals during the year based 
on the latest historical data and trends. These forecasts and results are presented to the appropriate monthly Board Meeting. The 
Chief Executive, Finance Director and Senior Management prepare Board Reports to monitor performance and actions to achieve 
objectives. An annual budget is also set for capital expenditure. Actual expenditure is authorised by the Board and monitored 
against the annual budget.
The Group has well established procedures over the security of data held on IT Systems which includes automatic and regular 
backups together with backup servers and discs held off-site in secure surroundings.
The Board is responsible for identifying the main business risks faced by the Group. An annual assessment is conducted and 
agreed by the Board that highlights the risks both internally and externally, enabling actions to be devised and monitored to reduce 
the risk of failure to meet business objectives. The principal risks are included in the Finance Report. 24
Autoclenz ANNu Al RepoR t 2011
21248.04    17.04.2012  Proof 5
c ORPORatE GOVERnancE REPOR t continued
audit committee and auditors
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Stone and Mr Leek. Mr Stone is the Chairman of the Committee; both Mr Stone and Mr Leek 
are fellows of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The Audit Committee reviewS the integrity of the 
Company's financial statements including the Annual and Interim Reports. The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the 
internal controls and risk management system. The Audit Committee has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and 
does not feel the Group justifies a dedicated internal audit function due to its present size and nature. The Audit Committee met 
twice during 2011. At least once a year the external Auditors meet the Committee without any Executive Director present.
The external Auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Group's Annual Report and Accounts. They independently and 
objectively review managements reporting of the operational results and financial position. They also review and test the design 
and implementation of key internal controls and the data contained in the Annual Report and Accounts to the extent necessary for 
expressing audit opinion.
The external Auditors conduct an annual review of their independence identifying all services provided to the Group. In 2011 only 
audit services were carried out for the Group. The Group has used other accounting firms for some non-audit work.
As well as the key areas of control summarised in the paragraph above, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Group's 
arrangement for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrong doing, this is formalised in a  whistle-
blowing' policy circulated to all employees and available on the Employee Intranet.
r emuneration committee
Information on the Remuneration Committee, its membership and activities is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on the 
pages following this report.
r elations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its Shareholders and recognises their intent in the Groups strategy and performance. The 
Company promotes dialogue with Shareholders through regular meetings following the announcement of interim and final 
results. Usually three Board Members have attended these meetings. The views of Shareholders are reported back to the full 
Board. There is also a Group Investor Relations Website containing information on current activities including all the public 
reports prepared by the Company to date.
The Company website is www.autoclenz.co.uk
At the AGM there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communications between Shareholders and 
Directors. All Directors attend the AGM. The notice of the Company's AGM is circulated to Shareholders at least 20 working days 
before the meeting. 25
Autoclenz ANNu Al RepoR t 2011
Our Performance Our financials
21248.04    17.04.2012  Proof 5
Our Business Our Governance
REmUnERatIOn REPOR t The Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 apply to quoted companies. As such there is no requirement for AIM listed 
companies to comply. The Remuneration Committee makes the following report.
r emuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee comprised Michael Stone (Chairman) and James Leek. Neither of the aforementioned committee 
members had or has any personal financial interest other than in respect of fees or salary paid to them as disclosed below, and in 
respect of shares held beneficially, as disclosed on page 18 of this annual report.
The Committee determines the overall remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Divisional Directors and has delegated 
responsibility from the Board for setting the remuneration packages of the individual Executive Directors.
The Committee is authorized by the Board to obtain any outside professional advice about remuneration matters. In 2011 advice 
was sought regarding the setting up of new specialist share options for the Executive Directors and Senior Management of the 
Company.
r emuneration Policy
The committee's policy is designed to ensure that the remuneration packages offered are competitive with companies of a 
comparable size and are capable of attracting, retaining and motivating executives of a suitable calibre. The policy aims to ensure 
that individual short term and long term rewards and incentives are aligned both with the performance of the Group and the 
interests of the Shareholders, and also reflect the individual contributions of the Executive concerned.
components of r emuneration
Basic salary
Basic salaries are paid monthly in cash and reviewed annually by the committee in the light of individual performance and 
benchmark comparisons for quoted companies of a similar size. There will be no increase in 2012 to the basic salary levels of the 
Executive Directors.
Performance r elated Bonus
The Group operates a performance related Executive Bonus Scheme for the benefit of the Executive and Divisional Directors. 
The purpose of the scheme is to enable individuals to increase their earnings by meeting or outperforming short term financial 
objectives for the financial year concerned. Such objectives are set by the committee in the case of the Executive Directors and by 
the Chief Executive in the case of the Divisional Directors under delegated authority from the committee. During the year ended  
31 December 2011 Grahame Rummery received  13,125 and Trevor Clingo  9,200 in respect of the 2010 year. These amounts were 
provided for in the accounts of 2010.
Bonus payments are not eligible for the calculation of pension entitlement.
share option schemes
The Group operates a share option plan for the granting of Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) Options and unapproved 
options. The plan was established in 2005.
On 6 May 2011 Mr G Rummery and Mr T Clingo surrendered, respectively, in total 176,000 and 120,000 EMI and unapproved 
options.
The Autoclenz Holdings Plc Board of Directors recognizes the importance of incentivising and rewarding the performance of the 
key Executives and tasked the Remuneration Committee to review the effectiveness of existing arrangements and to recommend 
to the Board an appropriate long term incentive plan for its Senior Executives.
On 6 May 2011 awards were made to Mr G Rummery and Mr T Clingo under the Company's EMI Option Scheme of 75,000 options 
each. A total of 490,000 share options have been awarded to 12 members, equivalent to 4.4% of the issued share capital of the 
Company.
All of these options are exercisable at a price of 40.5 pence per share and are only exercisable once earnings per share and total 
return performance related criteria have been achieved over a three year period.