 39 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its 
performance and that of its Committees and Directors each 
financial year. Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP , the independent 
board performance consultants who have no other connection with 
the Company, conducted the review between November 2013 and 
March 2014. This took the form of a series of structured interviews 
with all the Directors and various members of the senior executive 
team covering the performance of the Board, each of the Board's 
Committees and a peer group review of each Director's individual 
performance. Armstrong Bonham Carter collated and analysed the 
results from each interview and prepared separate reports on the 
performance of the Board as a whole, one for each Committee and 
reports on each Director. 
The reports on the performance of the Board and those of the 
Committees were subsequently presented and discussed at the 
March 2014 Board meeting. The individual Director's performance 
reports were provided to the Chairman, which the Chairman then 
discussed with each Director as appropriate. The Chairman's 
performance was discussed initially with the Senior Independent 
Director before he provided feedback to the Chairman.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board had demonstrated a 
high degree of effectiveness. There were some recommendations 
on how to further improve the development of strategy, Board 
composition and how operations are monitored. Subsequently the 
Board has addressed some of these issues and for others these are 
being managed by an action plan which will be regularly monitored.
Indemnities to Directors
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, Directors 
are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted 
by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance 
of their duties in their capacity as Directors to the Company. The 
indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent the Director 
is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. The Company has 
maintained Directors' and officers' liability insurance cover 
throughout the year.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of 
internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces. The 
Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
controls, which have been in place from the start of the year to the 
date of approval of this report, and believes that it is in accordance 
with the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
The key elements of the system of internal controls currently include:
 - each member of the Executive Board has responsibility for 
specific aspects of the Group's operations. They meet on a 
regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, 
reviewing operating results, identification and mitigation of risks 
and communication and application of the Group's policies 
and procedures. Where appropriate, matters are reported 
to the Board;
 - regular reports to the Board from the Executive Board on key 
developments, financial performance and operational issues in 
the business;
 - operational and financial controls and procedures which include 
authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts and capital 
expenditure, signing authorities, IT application controls, 
organisation structure, Group policies, segregation of duties and 
reviews by management; 
 - an annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored and 
approved by the Board; 
 - regular meetings between the Executive Board, sales area 
managers and line of business managers to discuss actual 
performance against forecast, budget and prior years. The 
operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and 
compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate;
 - targeted internal audit reviews and extended external audits 
which focus on confirming the operation of controls in key 
process areas; and
 - maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas of 
the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of the 
cover in the external market.
The Board's monitoring covers all material controls, including 
financial, non-financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from 
management to consider whether significant risks are identified, 
evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more 
extensive monitoring. The Board periodically carries out visits to the 
Group's subsidiaries and receives presentations on their operations.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the 
purpose of this annual report. This involved reviewing a risk 
matrix for the Group that was prepared during a risk assessment 
workshop involving the Executive Board and senior managers. This 
assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control 
necessary for the Company to successfully carry out the key 
business strategies of the Group together with more generic 
inherent risks of the Group's operations. The Audit Committee 
assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities. 40 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Corporate governance
continued
Directors' report
Policy on appointment and reappointment
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors are 
required to retire and submit themselves for re-election at least 
every three years by rotation and also following their appointment. In 
addition, as in the prior year and in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance code, all of the remaining Board members are offering 
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
On appointment, all Directors are asked to confirm that they 
have sufficient time to devote to the role, which is confirmed 
together with details of their duties in the letter of appointment. 
All Directors undergo an induction as soon as practical following 
their appointment. As part of the induction process, Directors are 
provided with background information on the Group and attend the 
Group's headquarters in Cambridge for meetings and presentations 
from senior management. Jennifer Allerton received a briefing on 
the role, responsibilities and duties of being a Company director 
from the Company Secretary and reviewed the financials and 
business models with the Chief Financial Officer. She met with the 
Executive Vice Presidents of Business Strategy; Human Resources 
and Business Services; the Chief Operations Officer and the Vice 
President of Corporate Marketing. In addition, where appropriate, 
meetings are also arranged with the Group's advisers. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the Company's registered 
office during normal business hours and will be available for 
inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the 
Board. The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of 
Investor Relations have meetings with representatives of institutional 
shareholders and hold analyst briefings at least twice a year, following 
the announcement of the interim and full year results, but also at 
other times during the year as necessary. Senior managers from 
Product Development, Business Strategy and Finance also attended 
analyst and shareholder meetings during the year. In September 
2013, the Company held a capital markets day in Houston, Texas, 
USA; where analysts and shareholders were updated on the activities 
of the Group including its North American operations. All of these 
meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with 
major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining 
feedback. The Board also receives formal feedback from analysts and 
institutional shareholders through the Company's financial PR adviser 
and financial advisers. The Board is appraised of discussions with 
major shareholders to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors consider any matter raised by shareholders and to enable 
all Directors to understand shareholder views. In addition, during 
2014, the Group consulted with shareholders in respect of proposals 
for the remuneration of Executive Directors. The Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, Philip Dayer, is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to 
resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate. The Chairman, 
Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for 
dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend (together with 
the other members of the Board) the Annual General Meeting, but 
are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder 
communications. Corporate information is also available on the 
Company's website, www.aveva.com.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate 
with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate. 
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and the Nominations 
Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to 
answer any questions.
Share capital structure
Further information on the share capital structure of the Company is 
contained on pages 65 and 66.
Committees of the Board
The Board commenced the year with four Committees: Audit, 
Remuneration, Nominations and Treasury Risk Management. During 
the course of the year the activities of the Treasury Risk Management 
Committee were assumed by the Audit Committee. In accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the duties of the 
Committees are set out in formal terms of reference. They are 
available on request from the Company's registered office during 
normal business hours and are available on the Company's website 
at www.aveva.com. 
Audit Committee
No. of meetings: 4
Committee Chairman: Jonathan Brooks 4
Committee members: Philip Dayer 4
Herv  Couturier  
(100% to the date  
of resignation)
1
Jennifer Allerton 
(100% from the date  
of appointment)
3
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and 
monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal 
controls. It tests and challenges these areas in conjunction with 
management and the auditor as appropriate. The Audit Committee 
met four times during the year. Following the decision in May 2013 
to absorb the Treasury Risk Management Committee (TRMC), the 
Audit Committee commenced oversight of the Group's treasury 
activities and associated risks. 
The Audit Committee report on pages 44 to 46 sets out in more 
detail the Audit Committee's policies, practices and areas of focus. 41 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Nominations Committee
No. of meetings: 3
Committee Chairman: Philip Aiken 3
Committee members: Jonathan Brooks 3
Philip Dayer 3
The activities of the Nominations Committee include nomination, 
selection and appointment of Non-Executive and Executive 
Directors, succession planning and the composition of the Board, 
particularly in relation to the diversity of background, skills and 
experience. The Nominations Committee are committed to 
attracting, recruiting and retaining the best people by creating 
and sustaining an inclusive work environment offering equal 
opportunities regardless of race, gender, gender identity or 
reassignment, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation. The 
Nominations Committee meets periodically when required. In 
addition to the meetings there are a number of adhoc meetings to 
address specific matters. The Chief Executive is invited to attend 
meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
During 2013 Herv  Couturier communicated his desire to retire 
from the Board at the forthcoming AGM. The Nominations 
Committee met under Philip Aiken's Chairmanship and with 
the participation of the Chief Executive Officer, to consider an 
appropriate process for choosing a successor. Spencer Stuart, an 
external executive search firm with a strong Board practice was 
appointed to assist with the identification of appropriate candidates, 
having considered the requisite skills, knowledge and experience 
for the position with a particular focus on information technology 
and global operations. Spencer Stuart has no connection with the 
Company. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer interviewed 
the short-listed individuals. The other members of the Nominations 
Committee then interviewed the final candidate. As a result, the 
Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of Jennifer 
Allerton to the Board, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 
9 July 2013. Upon her appointment Jennifer Allerton was considered 
to be independent. 
The Chairman of the Committee and the remainder of the Board also 
considered the independence of Philip Dayer and Jonathan Brooks 
now that both are in their third term of office. It was concluded that 
both remained independent and continued to contribute to the 
operation of the Board. 
Remuneration Committee
No. of meetings: 4
Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer 4
Committee members: Philip Aiken 4
Jonathan Brooks 4
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board on the Group's policy for Executive and senior management 
remuneration and determines the individual remuneration packages 
on behalf of the Board for the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation, except when 
the Chief Executive's own remuneration package is being discussed.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and 
outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties. During the 
year the Committee asked Deloitte LLP to conduct an executive 
remuneration bench marking survey in accordance with the 
Remuneration Committee's policy to commission such a survey 
triennially. The Directors' remuneration report sets out in more 
detail the Remuneration Committee's policies and practices on 
Executive remuneration.
Treasury Risk Management Committee (TRMC)
No. of meetings: 1
Committee Chairman: Philip Dayer 1
Committee members: Jonathan Brooks 1
James Kidd 1
The TRMC was formed to oversee the Group's treasury function. 
In addition to the above members, the Head of Finance and Group 
Treasurer attended the meetings. The TRMC reviewed the Group's 
overall financial risk management, including:
 - foreign exchange risk and related hedging policy;
 - credit risk, which includes monitoring the Group's counter party 
exposure to banks; and
 - liquidity risk, which includes reviewing the cash management 
structure in the Group.
The policies of the Group in relation to these areas are explained in 
note 26 to the financial statements.
In May 2013 it was decided in the interests of efficiency to merge the 
Treasury Risk Management Committee with the Audit Committee. 42 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Board of Directors
Directors' report
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive
Richard Longdon received engineering 
training in the defence industry and 
then gained experience in the project 
management of high-value engineering 
projects. He moved into sales and held a 
series of international sales and marketing 
positions. He joined AVEVA in 1984 and 
shortly afterwards was made Marketing 
Manager for the process products. In 
January 1992, he relocated to Frankfurt 
where he was responsible for setting up 
and running the Group's German office. 
He returned to the UK as part of the 
management buyout team in 1994, taking 
responsibility for the Group's worldwide 
sales and marketing activities, before being 
appointed Managing Director in May 1999. 
He took over as Group Chief Executive in 
December 1999.
James Kidd
Chief Financial Officer
James Kidd is a Chartered Accountant 
and joined AVEVA in 2004. Prior to his 
appointment to the Board, James held 
several senior finance roles within the 
Group and was Head of Finance from 2006. 
He joined the Group at the time of the 
Tribon acquisition and played a significant 
part in the completion of this transaction 
and the subsequent integration of the 
acquired business. His responsibilities 
have included investor relations, the 
development of the Group's overseas 
subsidiaries, standardisation of financial 
processes and procedures as well as being 
heavily involved in the Group's recent 
acquisitions. Prior to joining AVEVA James 
worked for both Arthur Andersen and 
Deloitte, serving technology clients in both 
transactional and audit engagements.
Philip Aiken 
Chairman
Philip Aiken has over 40 years' experience in 
industry and commerce having been, from 
1997 to 2006, President of BHP Petroleum 
and then Group President Energy of BHP 
Billiton. Prior to that he held senior positions 
with BTR plc (1995 to 1997) and BOC Group 
(1970 to 1995). Other roles have included 
Chairman of Robert Walters plc, Senior 
Independent Director of Kazakymys plc, 
Senior Independent Director of Essar Energy 
plc, Senior Adviser for Macquarie Capital 
Europe, Chairman of the 2004 World Energy 
Congress and serving on the Boards of the 
Governor of Guangdong International 
Council, World Energy Council and Monash 
Mt Eliza Business School. He is a Non-
Executive Director of National Grid plc and 
Newcrest Mining Limited.
Length of tenure
2 Years (appointed 1 May 2012)
Length of tenure
20 Years (appointed 16 August 1994)
Length of tenure
3 Years (appointed 1 January 2011) 43 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Balance of Executive and
and Non-Executive Directors
Chairman
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Brooks
Non-Executive Director
Jonathan Brooks is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants and has 
some 20 years' experience in the technology 
sector . Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief 
Financial Officer and a Director of ARM 
Holdings Plc where he was a key member of 
the team that developed ARM to be a leader in 
its sector . Since 2002, he has been a director of 
a number of technology companies in both the 
software and hardware sectors. Most recently , 
he was Chairman of Xyratex Limited, a Nasdaq-
listed provider of enterprise class data storage 
sub-systems and network technology , which 
was acquired by Seagate at the end of March 
2014. He is currently a Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee of IP Group 
PLC, which commercialises intellectual 
property from leading universities. 
Length of tenure
6 Years (appointed 12 July 2007)
Length of tenure
6 Years (appointed 7 January 2008)
Length of tenure
Appointed 9 July 2013
Philip Dayer
Non-Executive Director
Philip Dayer qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant and pursued a corporate 
finance career in investment banking, 
specialising in advising UK-listed 
companies. He was first appointed an 
Advisory Director in 1983 of Barclays 
Merchant Bank Limited and since then 
has held the position of Corporate Finance 
Director with a number of banks. He retired 
from Hoare Govett Limited in 2004. Philip 
was a financial consultant to OJSC Rosneft 
Oil Company, the Russian state-owned oil 
and gas company, on their flotation in 2006. 
Philip is a Non-Executive Director of 
Kazmunaigas Exploration Production JSC, 
The Parkmead Group plc, Navigators 
Underwriting Agency Limited, VTB Capital 
plc and Chairman of IP PLUS plc.
Jennifer Allerton
Non-Executive Director
Jennifer Allerton has more than 38 years' 
information technology experience, gaining 
extensive knowledge of working in large 
companies across the globe, particularly in 
emerging markets. Between 2002 and 2012 
she was Chief Information Officer at F . 
Hoffmann-La Roche with responsibility for 
IT strategy and operations for the Pharma 
division and all Group IT operations. Jennifer 
holds a B.Sc in Mathematics and a B.Sc in 
Geosciences as well as an M.Sc in Physics. 
Jennifer is a member of the Advisory Board 
of the University of Bath Management 
School. Jennifer is also Non-Executive 
Director of Oxford Instruments plc.  44 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Audit Committee report
Directors' report
The Board places a very high priority 
on the integrity of the Group's 
financial statements, the quality and 
transparency of its financial reporting 
and the effectiveness of AVEVA 's risk 
management and internal 
control systems. 
Jonathan Brooks
Audit Committee Chairman
27 May 2014
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and 
governance of these critical areas. 
In line with the requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
applicable to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, 
based on confirmations from management and external audit review, 
the Committee and the Board consider that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company's performance, business model and strategy.
Overview of the year's activities
In addition to its prescribed duties, the Audit Committee undertook 
several additional projects during the year. Firstly, it commissioned 
an extensive review of the Group's revenue recognition policies, 
undertaken in association with a third party professional services 
firm, so as to enable the Group to be better prepared for the new 
accounting standard for revenue recognition which is expected to 
be released in 2014. Secondly, following the BIS initiative, work was 
undertaken on assessing the potential cyber risks open to the 
Group. Thirdly, following a decision to tender the audit from the 
2016 year end, efforts were made to develop relationships with 
other accounting firms in anticipation of a tender process which 
will be held in 2015. Fourthly, with the general need to upgrade the 
Group's IT systems, attention was devoted to the major project 
to upgrade the Business Systems. Finally, the challenging trading 
conditions in which the Enterprise Solutions business found itself 
led to an extensive review of whether its goodwill and intangible 
assets required impairment. 
Audit Committee terms of reference
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group and the Committee members (as part of 
the full Board) review all proposed announcements to be made by 
the Group and consideration is given to any significant financial 
reporting judgements contained in them. 
The Committee considers the effectiveness of financial 
reporting and internal controls, compliance with legal requirements, 
accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and also reviews any 
proposed change in accounting policies and any recommendations 
from the Group's auditor regarding improvements to internal 
controls and the adequacy of resources within the Group's 
finance function.
In May 2013, the Audit Committee assumed the responsibilities 
of the Treasury Risk Management Committee which had been 
established following the financial crisis of 2008. A full copy of the 
Committee's terms of reference is available from the Company's 
website at www.aveva.com. 
Committee membership
The Committee is formed of three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. As Chairman of the Committee, I am deemed by the 
Board to have recent and relevant financial experience. I am a Fellow 
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and I have 
held a number of senior financial positions in my career, the most 
relevant of which being the Chief Financial Officer of ARM Holdings 
Plc between 1995 and 2002. ARM is a major global technology 
company as well as having a similar software licensing business 
model to AVEVA. Philip Dayer and Jennifer Allerton make up the 
other two members of the Audit Committee, Jennifer having joined 
the Committee in place of Herv  Couturier who stepped down from 
the Board at the AGM in July 2013. Brief biographical details of all the 
members of the Committee are included on pages 42 and 43.
Information flows to the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least four times per annum. The 
Company Chairman and CFO are invited to attend all meetings. 
The external auditor and the Group's Head of Finance are also 
invited to attend. Members of senior management are invited 
from time to time to make presentations such as the Committee's 
agenda necessitates. For example, in March 2014, the Audit 
Committee met during the Group's annual Corporate Finance 
Conference held in the UK, and so were able to meet the most 
senior members of the global finance team, representing the 
EMEA, Asia Pacific, Chinese, Latin American and Enterprise 
Solutions businesses.
The Committee meets quarterly with the auditor without any 
members of the executive management team being present. 
I also meet with the external auditor two or three times each year 
away from the Company's offices. 45 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Audit Committee meeting dates 2013/14 and summary agendas
September 2013
 - Scoping of project to review revenue recognition policies
 - Scoping of project to review cyber security 
 - Business systems update: presentation from management
 - Consideration of FRC recommendations on auditor rotation 
 - Internal audit planning for coming year/extended external audit
 - Consideration of the potential financial reporting risks for the 
six-month interim report
 - Review and confirmation of Audit Committee terms 
of reference
November 2013
 - Receipt of the report from the auditors on their interim 
review procedures
 - Review and approval of the six-month interim report
 - Report from Deloitte LLP following their review of Group s 
cyber security
 - Progress report from management on interim review of 
revenue recognition project
March 2014
 - Presentation of reports on extended external audit procedures 
- China and South Korea 
 - Full review by the Committee of Group risk register
 - Discussion of the auditor's 2013/14 audit plan
 - Consideration of potential financial reporting risks and 
regulatory changes for the full year report
 - Presentation from management on the Group's tax status and 
current risks
 - Progress report from management on revenue recognition 
project following external input from PwC
 - Review of treasury function and formal adoption of Group 
treasury policy 
 - Ratification of priorities for 2014/15 procedures over system of 
internal financial and operational controls
 - Assessment of effectiveness of external auditor
 - Presentation by senior members of regional finance teams 
based in Brazil, China, Dubai, Germany and Malaysia 
May 2014
 - Receipt of reports from management considering significant 
financial reporting risks
 - Formal going concern review and internal audit function review
 - Review of annual goodwill impairment test, particularly with 
respect to the Enterprise Solutions business
 - Receipt of the report from the auditors on their audit findings
 - Review and approval of the preliminary announcement and 
2014 annual report
Risk and internal controls
The key elements of the Group's internal control framework and 
procedures are set out on page 39. The principal risks the Group 
faces are set out on pages 26 and 27. Annually, the Audit Committee 
considers the Group risk register and related management controls. 
Throughout the process, the Board or the Audit Committee:
 - gives consideration to whether areas should be looked at more 
closely through specific control reviews;
 - identifies areas where enhancement of internal controls is 
required; and
 - agrees action plans to deliver the necessary or recommended 
enhancements.
There is a formal whistle-blowing policy which has been 
communicated to employees. This policy provides information 
on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it is 
appropriate to make a disclosure. The Audit Committee is satisfied 
that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make 
representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and 
proportionate investigations.
Valuation of assets and liabilities
The Audit Committee discusses with management and the auditor 
the approach that has been taken in assessing all key estimates. 
These include revenue recognition, provisions for impairment of 
receivables, the valuation of intangible assets and retirement 
benefit obligations and the uncertainty of taxation items in 
certain jurisdictions. 
Annually, the Committee considers the going concern principle 
on which the financial statements are prepared and also considers 
and approves the impairment review of goodwill prepared 
by management. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue recognition represents a key risk to the integrity of the 
financial statements and as such the Committee spends a great 
deal of time in this area. This includes reviewing any non-standard 
or very large contracts as and when they arise. During the year 
the audit focused on ten locations which represented 79% of the 
Group's revenue and the auditor consulted with the Committee on 
the larger or non-standard contracts which arose during the course 
of their work.
Impairment review of Enterprise Solutions (ES) business
During the year, particular attention was paid to the carrying value of 
goodwill related to the Enterprise Solutions line of business for which 
there is lower headroom in the impairment test calculations. The ES 
business suffered a significant drop in revenues in 2013/14 compared 
to the prior year, and this precipitated a thorough review, since one of 
the key elements in supporting the carrying value of its intangible 
assets of  12.8 million was its revenue growth rate. The difficulty for 
the Committee lay in judging to what extent the drop in revenues in 
2013/14 reflected a near-term issue rather than a fundamental change 
in the ES future outlook. One factor which reassured the Committee 
was the ability to reduce cost being carried by ES in an environment 
where the growth rate was reduced to no more than 10% per annum. 
In such a case, there was still no requirement for impairment, though 
the Committee agreed that any further deterioration in the growth 
rate in 2015 was likely to require an impairment. Further details can be 
found in note 16 to the Accounts -  Goodwill' . 46 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Internal audit
The Group does not maintain a separate internal audit function.  
This is principally due to the geographical spread of the Group's 
operations which means that there is a clear advantage in any 
internal audit work or review of controls being undertaken by 
teams with specific local regulatory knowledge and without any 
local language barrier. The Group uses a combination of extended 
external audit procedures and outsourced internal audit projects 
to meet its control review needs, as this is considered most 
cost-effective. However, the Audit Committee does review the 
need to have its own separate internal audit function each year.
The Audit Committee has developed a framework to gain assurance 
over the system of internal financial and operational controls. 
This comprises: 
 - A risk assessment performed by operational management and 
the Board to identify key areas for assurance. 
 - A series of peer and head office reviews of key risk areas of 
financial internal control. 
 - The use of qualified third parties to undertake specialist reviews in 
more technical areas. During 2013/14 the Committee appointed 
Deloitte LLP to conduct a review of cyber security and PwC to 
assist in the review of the Group's revenue recognition policies.
 - An extension of the external auditors' work in certain areas and 
geographies to cover other key financial risks, such as operations 
in fast growth areas as well as new taxation risks arising from 
trading in emerging markets. During 2013/14, following a similar 
exercise in Brazil and Russia in the prior year, additional testing 
was carried out in South Korea and China. 
 - An annual assessment by the Audit Committee of the whole 
system of internal financial and operational controls. 
External audit
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of 
the external auditor and on its remuneration both for audit and 
non-audit work and discusses the nature, scope and results of 
the audit with the external auditor. The Committee keeps under 
review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor. Controls in place to ensure this, include: 
monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the audit; 
implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services; and a review of the scope of the audit 
and fee and performance of the external auditor. An analysis of 
non-audit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditor for 
non-audit work and delegates the authority for approval of such 
work to the Chief Financial Officer where the level of fees involved 
are insignificant. During the year the auditor did perform non-audit 
work which mainly consisted of tax compliance work for subsidiaries 
of the Group and some other statutory filing work. Any significant 
non-audit work such as reporting accountant engagements would 
require prior approval from the Audit Committee. The Group 
engages other independent firms of accountants to perform tax 
consulting work and other consulting engagements to ensure that 
the independence of the auditor is not compromised. For example, 
during 2013/14, the Audit Committee authorised a review of the 
Group's revenue recognition policies by PwC, a review of Cyber 
security by Deloitte and advice related to defined benefit pension 
scheme matters with KPMG.
Audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement 
of independence is received from the auditor each year. The Board 
and the Audit Committee are satisfied that the independence of 
the auditor has been maintained. The current audit partner, Bob 
Forsyth, will commence his fifth year with the Group in 2014/15 
before rotating off the audit. 
At the March 2014 meeting, the Committee assessed the 
effectiveness of the external auditor. This assessment was 
based upon individual questionnaire feedback from key members 
of the Group's finance team as well as from the Audit Committee 
members. The overall conclusion was that while the audit process 
was effective, some areas of potential improvement were identified.
The audit was last tendered in 2002/03. The Audit Committee 
considers the re-appointment or tendering of the audit each year. 
The Committee's intention is currently to tender the audit starting 
from the 2016 financial year, being the first year following the 
current audit partner's five-year term. At the time of writing, the 
Committee expects that the current auditors, Ernst & Young, will be 
invited to tender along with two other firms of auditors. 
Audit planning and main audit issues
At the March 2014 meeting of the Committee the auditors 
presented their audit plan for 2013/14. This included a summary 
of the proposed audit scopes for the year for each of the Group's 
subsidiaries and a summary of what the auditor considered to be 
the most significant financial reporting risks facing the Group, 
together with the auditor's proposed audit approach to these 
significant risk areas. The main areas of audit focus for the year 
were the areas of significant judgements of revenue recognition, 
valuation of intangible assets, provisions for impairment of 
receivables, the uncertainty of taxation items in certain jurisdictions 
and retirement benefit obligations. These areas are described in 
more detail in note 3 to the financial statements. 
Jonathan Brooks
Audit Committee Chairman
Audit Committee report
continued
Directors' report 47 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS' REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
I am pleased to present this year's 
Report on Directors' Remuneration. 
The Remuneration Committee 
believes that remuneration 
arrangements should align Executive 
Directors with the delivery of the 
long-term strategy and creation of 
shareholder value while rewarding 
Executives fairly if success is achieved.
Philip Dayer
Remuneration Committee Chairman
27 May 2014
 - In line with previous years, the Committee continues to believe 
that earnings per share remains the most appropriate performance 
measure for the long-term incentives and as such this will continue 
to be the sole measure for 2014 awards. However, to reflect the 
increased opportunity under the plan, the Committee is proposing 
to increase the maximum performance target for awards to be 
granted in 2014 from 18% per annum to 20% per annum.
Following these increases, the remuneration opportunity for each 
of the Executive Directors will be positioned around market median 
against other companies of a similar size and scale.
The Committee feels that the above increases will ensure that the 
remuneration arrangements are more reflective of the size and 
scale of AVEVA and will further align the Executive Directors with 
the creation of long-term shareholder value. 
The current Group Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is due to expire 
at the end of the year. The Committee is therefore proposing to 
replace the current LTIP with a new LTIP (the 2014 LTIP) which will be 
subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM. The 2014 LTIP 
reflects the provisions of the current LTIP but the plan has been 
updated to reflect current best practice. Awards for the Executive 
Directors will now be subject to a two-year holding period following 
the end of the three-year performance period. Further details of the 
proposed 2014 LTIP are set out in the Notice of AGM. 
2013/14 out-turns
2013/14 has been a year of strong progress for AVEVA with 
demonstrable development against a number of our strategies for 
growth as well as growth in Adjusted Profit before Tax by  7.7m to 
 78.3m. Further details of the Company's progress and successes 
are described in the Strategic Report.
In this context, the Committee decided to pay bonuses of 63% 
of salary (50% of the maximum) to both the CEO and CFO. The 
Committee feels that this outcome is an appropriate reflection of 
the underlying performance of the business over the year.
Over the longer term, AVEVA has delivered EPS growth in excess 
of RPI of 12.6% p.a. over the past three years, which the Committee 
considered to be exceptional performance, particularly in light of an 
ever-changing external environment. The Committee therefore 
determined that 94% of the LTIP awards granted to Executive 
Directors in 2011 should vest. 
Remuneration reporting
The 2013/14 financial year is the first year in which AVEVA is required to 
report under the new remuneration reporting regulations. Accordingly 
the Directors' Remuneration Report is now split into two sections:
 - The Directors' remuneration policy which, subject to shareholder 
approval, will apply for three years from the 2014 AGM; and 
 - The annual report on remuneration, which sets out payments 
and awards made to the Directors and explains the linkage 
between the Group's performance and remuneration in respect 
of the 2013/14 financial year. 
The Committee is appreciative of the significant shareholder 
support that it received for the 2012/13 Directors' Remuneration 
Report at the 2013 AGM which received 97% of votes in favour. We 
hope that you find this year's report clear and informative and that 
you will continue to support us by voting in favour of the resolutions 
at the 2014 AGM.
Agenda for 2014/15
The Committee will continue to keep the structure and details 
of our remuneration arrangements under review and will remain 
committed to strong communication with shareholders and will 
continue to consult with investors as appropriate.
Remuneration Committee report
Introduction
Directors' report
Remuneration review
During the course of 2013/14 the Remuneration Committee 
undertook a detailed review of the current remuneration 
arrangements in operation at AVEVA, which included a review of the 
market positioning of remuneration. The last review of the market 
positioning of the remuneration arrangements was undertaken three 
years ago and since this time there has been a significant increase in 
terms of the size (market capitalisation and earnings have increased 
materially) and the complexity of the Group (we now operate in new 
product areas and have increased the spread of the Group's operation 
overseas). In light of this, the positioning of the Executive Directors' 
total remuneration arrangements, and in particular base salary, has 
fallen significantly behind market practice. 
To ensure that the remuneration arrangements at AVEVA continue 
to be competitive to attract and retain executives of an appropriate 
calibre to run a business the size and complexity of AVEVA, we have 
made a number of changes to our remuneration arrangements going 
forward. The Committee believes that the changes, set out below, 
are in the best interests of our shareholders and are appropriate for 
the Executive Directors given their experience and performance. 
 - The CEO's base salary will be increased from  405,600 to 
 485,000 and the CFO's salary will be increased from  260,000 to 
 300,000. These increases will be implemented over the course of 
the next two years subject to continued good performance. 
 - The long-term incentive opportunity for the CEO will be increased 
to 150% of base salary (from 120% of base salary) and for the CFO 
will be increased to 120% of base salary (from 100% of salary). 48 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
The Remuneration Committee
The Board sets the remuneration policy for the Group. The 
Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board 
within its agreed terms of reference, details of which are available at 
www.aveva.com. 
The Remuneration Committee's principal responsibility is to 
determine the remuneration package of both the Company's 
Executive Directors and its senior management within broad 
policies agreed with the Board. 
When reviewing and setting remuneration policy the Committee 
considered a range of factors including the Company's strategy 
and circumstances, the prevailing economic environment and the 
evolving landscape in best practice guidelines to ensure that it 
remains appropriate. In addition, it reviews the remuneration 
policy for the Company as a whole and oversees and approves 
the Company's share incentive plans for all participants. The 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the 
Executive Directors and the Chairman, rather than the Committee.
The conclusions and recommendations of the Remuneration 
Committee were finalised in four formal meetings during the year, 
but these were preceded by several informal discussions, including 
some with advisers (none of whom had any other connection with 
the Company). 
The members of the Committee during 2013/14 were Philip Dayer 
(Chairman), Philip Aiken, Jonathan Brooks and Jennifer Allerton, who 
was appointed as a member of the Committee on 6 March 2014.
The Chief Executive (Richard Longdon) is invited to submit 
recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and to attend 
meetings when appropriate. He was not present when his own 
remuneration was discussed.
The Committee has access to external advisers as required. During 
the year the Committee received advice from Deloitte LLP . Deloitte 
also provided unrelated advisory services to the Group in respect of 
taxation during the year. Deloitte is one of the founding members of 
the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this 
Code in its dealings with the Committee. The Committee is satisfied 
that the advice provided by Deloitte is independent. The fees paid 
to Deloitte LLP were calculated based on time spent and expenses 
incurred for the majority of advice provided but on occasion for 
specific projects a fixed fee may be agreed.
Shareholder voting
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the 2012/13 
Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
Votes %
Votes in favour 50,376,404 96.94
Votes against 1,590,216 3.06
Total votes 51,966,620 100.00
1,624,729 votes were withheld. 
Remuneration Committee report continued
Introduction continued
Directors' report 49 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors' remuneration policy
The following sets out our Directors' remuneration policy (the Policy). This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 
AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006. Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, this Policy will apply to 
payments made from 15 July 2014.
The annual report on remuneration (pages 57 to 64) includes further details on how this Policy will be operated for the 2014/15 financial year.
AVEVA's Executive Remuneration philosophy 
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that members of the Executive management team are provided with appropriate incentives 
to align them with the Company's strategy and the future creation of shareholder value, encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair 
and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
It also aims for a combination of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share-based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to 
deliver short and long-term goals. The Company's policy is that a substantial proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be 
performance related and should be delivered in shares to create alignment with shareholders' interests. Remuneration for Executive 
Directors is set in the context of the economic environment in which the Group operates, the outcome of the wider pay review for all Group 
employees as well as the financial performance of the Group. When determining remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into 
consideration relevant external market data as well as the remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
Remuneration commitments made which were consistent with the approved Remuneration policy in force at that time shall be honoured, 
even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Base salary
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
 - Helps recruit and 
retain employees.
 - Reflects experience 
and role.
 - Base salary is normally reviewed annually 
with changes effective from 1 April, although 
salaries may be reviewed more frequently or 
at different times of the year if the Committee 
determines this is appropriate.
 - The Committee determines base salary 
taking into account factors including, but not 
limited to:
  The individual's role, experience and 
performance in achieving financial and 
non-financial goals within his areas of 
responsibility.
  Salaries at other companies of a similar 
size and complexity as well as global 
technology peers.
  Remuneration of different groups of 
employees within the Company.
  Total organisational salary budgets.
 - Paid in cash.
 - In determining salary increases the 
Committee generally considers the 
factors outlined in the  operation' 
column. 
 - While there is no maximum salary 
level, salary increases will normally be 
in-line with the range of increases in 
the broader workforce salary. 
 - The Committee retains the discretion 
to make increases above this level in 
certain circumstances, for example, 
but not limited to:
  an increase in the individual's 
scope of responsibilities; 
  in the case of new executive 
directors who are positioned on a 
lower initial salary while they gain 
experience in the role; or
  where the Committee considers 
that salary is behind appropriate 
market positioning for a company 
of AVEVA's size and complexity.
Salaries with effect from 1 April 2014 
are:
 - CEO (Richard Longdon) -  445,000
 - CFO (James Kidd) -  280,000
None 50 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Pensions
 - Provides a 
competitive 
retirement benefit 
in a way that is cost 
effective to the 
Company.
CEO
 - The CEO, Richard Longdon, participated in the 
CadCentre Pension Scheme, a defined benefit 
pension scheme, until 2010 when he accrued 
the maximum benefits that he is entitled to 
under the scheme. The plan is a contributory, 
funded, occupational scheme registered with 
HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and, since 
1 October 2004, Career Average Revalued 
Earning benefits apply.
 - Mr Longdon is now a deferred member of 
the scheme and is no longer accruing any 
further benefits.
CFO
 - The CFO is a member of the AVEVA Group 
Personal Pension Plan (a defined contribution 
scheme).
New appointment
 - The intention is that new appointments to the 
Board would participate in the AVEVA Group 
Personal Pension Plan or receive an equivalent 
cash payment. However, if appropriate the 
Committee may determine that alternative 
arrangements for the provision of retirement 
benefit may apply. When determining pension 
arrangements for new appointments the 
Board will give regard to the cost of the 
arrangements, market practice and the 
pension arrangements received elsewhere 
in the Group. 
CEO
 - The current CEO is entitled to a 
pension on normal retirement, or on 
retirement due to ill heath, equivalent 
to two-thirds of his pensionable 
salary provided he has completed (or 
would have completed in the case of 
ill health) 25 years' service. 
 - A lower pension is payable on earlier 
retirement after the age of 55 by 
agreement with the Company and 
subject to HMRC guidelines. 
 - Pensions are payable to dependants 
on the Director's death in retirement 
and a lump sum is payable if death 
occurs in service.
CFO
The Company currently contributes 10% 
of base salary to the plan. 
None
Benefits
 - Help recruit and 
retain employees
 - Provide a 
competitive range of 
valued benefits
 - Assist toward early 
return to work in 
the event of illness 
or injury
 - The benefit policy is to provide an appropriate 
level of benefit taking into account market 
practice at similar sized companies and the 
level of benefits provided for other employees 
in the Group.
 - In line with benefits provided for other senior 
employees in the Group, Executive directors 
currently receive a mobility allowance or 
company car, a fuel allowance and a  500 
annual allowance toward a range of benefits.
 - In the event that an Executive was required 
to re-locate to undertake their role, the 
Committee may provide additional benefits 
to reflect the relevant circumstances (on a 
one-off or ongoing basis).
 - Benefits are reviewed by the Committee in 
the context of market practice from time to 
time and the Committee may introduce or 
remove particular benefits if it is considered 
appropriate to do so. 
 - If the Company were to operate an all-
employee share plan in the future, Executive 
Directors would be entitled to participate 
in the plan on the same terms as other 
employees.
 - The cost of benefit provision will 
depend on the cost to the Company 
of providing individual items and 
the individual's circumstances and 
therefore there is no maximum value. 
None
Remuneration Committee report continued
The Directors' remuneration policy continued
Directors' report 51 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Annual Incentive Scheme & Deferred Share Scheme
 - Incentivises 
and rewards the 
achievement of 
annual financial 
and strategic 
business targets and 
delivery of personal 
objectives.
 - Deferred element 
encourages long-
term shareholding, 
helps retention 
and discourages 
excessive risk taking.
 - The Committee determines an individual's 
maximum incentive opportunity taking into 
account the responsibilities of the role and 
market practice at comparable companies. 
 - Performance targets are set by the 
Committee on an annual basis.
 - The Committee determines the level of 
bonus paid taking into account performance 
against targets, the underlying performance 
of the business and Executive Directors' 
performance during the year.
 - The annual bonus is generally paid in a mix of 
cash and deferred shares.
 - For the core award, at 100% achievement 
of bonus performance targets, 60% of the 
bonus amount is payable in cash and the 
balance, 40%, is used to calculate the number 
of deferred shares. If the bonus amount is 
less than or equal to 70% of the potential 
maximum bonus, then 75% of the total 
bonus is paid in cash and 25% is deferred 
into shares. If the bonus amount is between 
70% and 100% of the potential maximum 
then the proportion paid in deferred shares is 
determined by linear interpolation between 
25% and 40%. The Committee may determine 
that a different balance of cash and deferred 
shares should apply.
 - The whole outperformance award would 
normally be delivered in deferred shares.
 - Further details of how the deferred share 
element operates are included as a footnote 
to this table.
 - The maximum bonus 
opportunity is 125% of base 
salary (core award of 100% 
of salary, outperformance 
award of 25% of base salary).
Core Award
 - The core bonus award is based on 
a mix of financial and individual 
objectives. For 2014/15, 90% of 
the bonus is based on financial 
measures with 10% based on 
individual measures agreed by the 
Committee at the start of the year. 
The Committee reserves the right 
to vary these proportions for future 
years. However, in any year, financial 
performance will always account for 
at least 70% of the bonus.
 - For the financial performance 
element, up to 10% of the bonus can 
be earned based on interim financial 
performance. Other than for this 
element performance is assessed 
over a financial year.
 - The core award starts being earned 
for entry level performance from 
0% of salary and accrues linearly up 
to 100% for achievement of stretch 
target. Around 50% of the core 
award bonus is paid if target levels of 
performance are achieved. 
Outperformance award
 - The outperformance award is 
based on financial performance 
over the financial year and is only 
delivered for the over-achievement 
of stretch targets.
For further details of metrics for the 2014/15 
annual bonus please see page 57 .
The AVEVA Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 (the 2014 LTIP) 
 - Establishes a 
motivational and 
performance-
orientated structure 
to incentivise 
Directors to focus 
on the creation of 
shareholder value 
aligned with the 
longer term strategy 
for the Group.
 - Up to 2013, the Company's long term incentive 
arrangement was the AVEVA Group Long 
Term Incentive Plan adopted with shareholder 
approval in 2004 (the 2004 LTIP). 
 - Subject to shareholder approval, from 2014 
onwards the Committee intends to make 
awards under the 2014 LTIP, which will be put 
to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM. 
 - Awards normally vest based on performance 
over a period of three years and are subject 
to a subsequent two-year holding period. 
Awards may be subject to a different 
vesting period as may be determined by 
the Committee.
 - Awards under the 2014 LTIP may be granted 
in the form of conditional awards or nominal 
cost options or phantom options which will be 
settled in cash.
 - The Committee determines targets 
each year to ensure that targets are 
stretching and represent value creation for 
shareholders while remaining motivational 
for management. 
 - The Committee shall determine the extent 
to which the awards will vest based on 
performance against targets and taking 
into consideration the wider performance 
of the Group. 
 - Awards are subject to malus and clawback 
provisions (details set out on page 52).
 - The maximum limit under 
the plan rules is 250% of 
base salary. 
 - The current intention is that 
awards will be limited to:
  150% of base salary for 
the CEO
  120% of base salary for 
the CFO
 - The intention is the 
maximum award will only 
be awarded in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. 
recruitment).
 - The Committee retains the 
discretion to grant awards 
up to the maximum limit 
under the plan rules. The 
Committee's intention 
would be to consult with 
shareholders in the event 
that awards were to 
be increased. 
 - Awards vest based on earnings per 
share performance.
 - The Committee retains the discretion 
to introduce alternative or additional 
performance measures if it considers 
that these would be better aligned 
with strategy and incentivise 
Executive Directors to deliver long-
term shareholder value. However, in 
any, year financial performance will 
always account for at least 75% of 
an award.
 - For threshold levels of performance 
25% of the award vests, increasing 
to 100% of the award for maximum 
performance. There is straight-
line vesting of awards between 
these points. 52 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Remuneration Committee report continued
The Directors' remuneration policy continued
Directors' report
Policy table footnotes
 - The deferred share element for both the core and outperformance 
annual incentive will be structured as a nil-cost option. 
 - Deferred awards will normally deliver the shares to participants 
in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years following 
the year in which an award is granted. The Committee has 
discretion to determine an alternative vesting profile.
 - Awards granted from 2012 onwards under the LTIP and the 
deferred share scheme are subject to malus and clawback 
provisions. Those provisions may apply at the discretion of the 
Committee if accounts are corrected or published that indicate 
the relevant performance was materially worse than in the 
accounts used to assess vesting.
 - Other elements of remuneration are not subject to clawback 
or malus.
 - The Committee may operate the 2014 LTIP and the deferred 
share scheme in accordance with its terms. This includes 
amending the scheme and the terms of awards (including 
adjustments to take account of any variation of capital, demerger 
or special dividend).
Legacy plans
Up to 2013, the Company's long term incentive arrangement 
was the AVEVA Group Long Term Incentive Plan adopted with 
shareholder approval in 2004 (2004 LTIP). Awards under the plan 
were granted in the form of nominal priced options and vest based 
on the achievement of EPS performance over a three-year period. 
No holding period applies. At the 2007 AGM, shareholders approved 
the Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 (2007 ESOS). No grants 
have been made under the scheme. The Committee may operate 
the 2004 LTIP and 2007 ESOS in accordance with its terms. 
This includes amending the scheme and the terms of awards or 
performance conditions (including adjustments to take account of 
any variation of capital, demerger or special dividend).
Committee discretion
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office (including the exercise 
of any discretions available to it in connection with such payments) 
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out 
above where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the 
policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual 
was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the 
Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the 
individual becoming a director of the Company. For these purposes 
'payments' include the Committee satisfying awards of variable 
remuneration and an award over shares is 'agreed' at the time the 
award is granted. 
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set 
out above (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative 
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without 
obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment. 
Information supporting the policy table
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group
Throughout the Group remuneration is determined based on 
the same principles - that remuneration arrangements should be 
appropriate for the role without paying more than is necessary and 
that pay should be structured to incentivise individuals to deliver 
the objectives of their role. AVEVA employs over 1,500 employees 
in over 40 locations with roles ranging from administrators to 
technical specialists and sales staff. The structure and level of 
reward therefore differs from role to role depending on skills, 
experience, level of seniority and market practice for the role. 
AVEVA's sales employees participate in commission plans that are 
designed to encourage the growth objectives of the Group. Around 
200 employees have annual bonus plans with 19 receiving a portion 
of bonus in shares which is deferred for up to three years; all other 
employees are eligible for a Company Discretionary Award subject 
primarily to the Group's financial performance and secondarily 
subject to individual performance. Around 40 members of senior 
management also participate in the LTIP based on the same 
performance targets as Executive Directors. All staff participate 
in a similar benefit structure to the Executive Directors.
Selection of performance measures
The Committee's guiding principle is that remuneration 
arrangements that operate throughout the Group should support 
the delivery of our long-term business strategy and therefore the 
creation of shareholder value. Our key long-term strategic priority is 
to deliver strong but sustainable EPS growth to support the delivery 
of this strategic priority.
Our annual bonus arrangements incentivise the delivery of financial 
performance and the achievement of key individual objectives that 
are aligned with the delivery of our strategy. EPS growth is the 
primary measure used for long-term incentive arrangements 
(although the Committee retains discretion to use different 
performance measures for future awards). The payment of bonuses 
and the vesting of long-term incentives are subject to stretching 
targets established by the Committee at the beginning of each 
performance period. These targets are set taking account of internal 
forecasts of performance over the performance period, the markets 
in which the Group operates, our long-term growth ambitions and 
the expectations of the investment community on the Group's 
future potential performance.
Remuneration policy for new hires
When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed 
Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the 
following principles: 
 - The package should be market competitive to facilitate the 
recruitment of an individual of sufficient calibre to lead the 
business. At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay 
no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent. 
 - The structure of the on-going remuneration package would 
normally include the components set out in the policy table for 
Executive Directors.
 - Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay 
opportunities or contractual rights as a result of their 
appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory 
payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers 
appropriate taking into account relevant factors, which may 
include the form of awards, expected value and vesting 
timeframe of forfeited opportunities. When determining such 
 buy-outs' the guiding principle would be that awards would 
generally be on a  like for like' basis to those forfeited unless not 
considered appropriate.
 - The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be 
awarded (excluding any buy-out  awards) is 375% of salary. 
 - Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to take-up 
their role the Committee may provide reasonable assistance 
with relocation (either via one-off or on-going payments or 
benefits) taking into account the individual's circumstances and 
prevailing market practice.
 - In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to 
the Board legacy terms and conditions would normally be 
honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding 
incentive awards. 
To facilitate awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, 
the Committee may grant awards to a new executive director in 
accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.2. This provision permits the 
granting of long term incentive plan awards, to facilitate, in unusual 
circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without 
seeking prior shareholder approval, or under any other appropriate 
Company incentive plan. Awards under Listing Rule 9.4.2 would 
normally be limited to  buy-out' awards.  53 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy 
table for Non-Executive Directors. 
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios
The remuneration package at AVEVA is structured so that the majority of the package is related to the delivery of performance over the 
short and long-term to ensure that reward is aligned with shareholder value creation. 
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios:
CEO CFO
Maximum award opportunities % of salary
Annual Bonus 125% 125%
LTIP 150% 120%
Minimum 
 - No annual incentive pay-out
 - No vesting under the LTIP
Mid performance
 - 50% of salary pays out under the Annual Bonus (40% 
of maximum i.e. half of the core award and none of the 
outperformance award)
 - 0-50% of maximum vesting under the LTIP 
Maximum performance
 - 100% of maximum annual incentive pay-out 
 - 100% of maximum LTIP vesting 
No share price growth has been assumed. Potential benefits under all employee share schemes and dividend equivalents have not been included.
Performance - related rewards 2014/2015 
CEO - Richard Longdon
Maximum 
performance 
Mid
performance
Minimum
30% 36%
56%
100%
28% 16%
34% 37% 29%
61%
100%
26% 13%
34%
Total
Total
Total
KEY
Fixed Pay
Annual Bonus
Long-term incentive
 1,696,000
 917,000
 472,000
CFO - James Kidd
Maximum 
performance 
Mid
performance
Minimum
Total
Total
Total
 1,011,000
 584,000
 325,000
Fixed pay is comprised of the following:
Salary 
(Salary with 
effect from 
1 April 2014)
Benefits 
(Paid in 
2013/14)
Pension 
(Based on 
salary with 
effect from 
1 April 2014)
Total fixed 
pay
CEO (Richard Longdon)  445,000  27,000  0  472,000
CFO (James Kidd)  280,000  17,000  28,000  325,000 54 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Remuneration Committee report continued
The Directors' remuneration policy continued
Directors' report
Executive Director Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office
When determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director the Committee takes into account any contractual agreements including 
the provisions of any incentive arrangements, typical market practice and the performance and conduct of the individual.
The service contracts for Executive Directors include the following terms:
Name Date of contract Date of appointment Expiry/review date of current contract Continuous service date
Richard Longdon 28 November 1996 28 November 1996 Rolling 29 May 1984
James Kidd 1 January 2011 1 January 2011 Rolling 5 January 2004
The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary. 
Notice period The CEO's service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on 
12 months' notice.
The CFO's service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on 
9 months' notice.
The service agreements provide for a period of garden leave not exceeding six months.
The Committee will determine the appropriate notice period for any new director taking into account the 
circumstances of the individual and market practice. Any notice period will normally be no longer than 
12 months. The Committee reserves the right to provide a longer initial notice period of up to 24 months 
reducing to 12 months over the first 12 months of employment if it considers this to be appropriate.
Payment in lieu of notice In the event of termination of contract without notice, the Executive shall be entitled to a payment 
in respect of salary and benefits for the period of notice. Such payment will normally be made in 
instalments and subject to mitigation but the Committee shall have discretion to make a single payment 
if this is considered appropriate.
Annual Bonus The Executive Director may, at the discretion of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an annual 
bonus for the financial year in which they ceased employment. Such Annual Bonus award will be 
determined by the Committee taking into account the circumstances for leaving, time in employment 
and performance. 
Deferred Share Scheme Death
In the event of a participant's death unvested awards shall vest. Where awards are in the form of options 
they may be exercised for a period of up to 12 months from death.
 Good leaver  
At the discretion of the Committee, leaving by reason of injury, or disability, redundancy, the 
Company or business for which the participant works leaving the group & any other reasons 
determined by the Committee.
Awards shall continue in full and vest on the originally anticipated vesting dates. 
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that awards should vest when the participant ceases 
employment. Awards in the form of options may be exercised in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Leavers in other circumstances
Awards will normally lapse.
2014 Long Term Incentive Plan Good leavers
If a participant leaves as a  good leaver , unvested awards shall continue in existence for the remainder 
of the performance period. At the end of the performance period, the awards may be permitted to vest 
to the extent determined in accordance with the applicable performance conditions and, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, then reduced to reflect the period that elapsed from the start of the 
performance period to the date of cessation as a proportion of the performance period. 
 Good leavers  are those that leave the employment of the company as a result of death, injury, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, the Company or business he works for being transferred from the 
Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
Leavers in other circumstances
Awards will normally lapse. Vested but unexercised options held by participants who leave employment 
other than due to gross misconduct may be exercised for a period following cessation of employment.  55 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other payments An Executive Director who joined the Company before January 2008 and who is made redundant, may 
receive, in addition to a payment in lieu of notice, any statutory redundancy payment and any other 
payment to which he is entitled, a payment under the Company's enhanced redundancy policy. This 
policy applies to all employees who joined the Company before January 2008. Under the policy, an 
eligible person will receive a payment calculated by reference to their length of service and weekly pay 
(by reference to gross annual salary) as follows:
 - 7 weeks' pay for service of up to 6 years; plus
 - 1.5 weeks' pay for each completed year of service over 7 years up to 20 years; plus
 - 2 weeks' pay for each completed year of service over 20 years. 
Under the Company's enhanced redundancy policy, eligible participants, including Executive Directors, 
may also receive a payment in lieu of a 90 day redundancy consultation period.
In the event of termination of an Executive Director's employment, a payment may be made in lieu of 
any accrued but untaken holiday. 
The Remuneration Committee would be responsible for considering the circumstances of the early 
termination of an Executive Director's contract and determining whether in exceptional circumstances 
there should be compensation payments in excess of the Company's contractual obligations. 
Prior to 2014, long-term incentive awards were granted under the 2004 LTIP . Under this plan, if a participant leaves for any reason other than 
gross misconduct, unvested awards will vest to the extent performance conditions have been met at the date of cessation. To the extent 
performance conditions have not been met at the date of cessation, if the participant is a 'good leaver', unvested awards will vest at the date 
of cessation to the extent determined by the Committee at its absolute discretion taking into account the extent to which any performance 
condition has been satisfied on cessation and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from grant 
to cessation. For these purposes, a person is a 'good leaver' if he leaves because of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the 
Company or business he works for being transferred from the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee. 
Change of control
In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding-up of the Company and ultimately at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: 
1. Unvested awards under the Deferred Share Scheme will vest in full at the time of change of control.
2. Unvested awards granted under the 2004 LTIP will vest having regard to the extent to which performance conditions have been met and, 
in the case of awards granted after 16 May 2012, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the time elapsed between the date of 
award and the date of the change of control or winding-up.
3. Unvested awards granted under the 2014 LTIP will vest having regard to the extent to which performance conditions have been met and 
unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of the change of 
control or winding-up.
Employee context
When setting Executive Directors' pay, the Committee considers the remuneration arrangement of other senior managers and employees in 
the Group more generally to ensure that Executive remuneration arrangements are appropriate in this context. 
AVEVA undertakes an annual salary review in April each year and uses this opportunity to reward strong performance and ensure salaries are 
in line with market rates. It manages this in a competitive environment particularly in the fast-growing economic areas. When determining 
salary increases for Executive Directors the Committee considers the outcome of the wider pay review for the Group.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding Executive Directors' remuneration. However, at regular intervals the 
Company conducts a survey of the views of employees in respect of their experience of working at AVEVA including their own reward. 
Dialogue with shareholders
The views of our shareholders on remuneration matters is important to the Committee and prior to making any material changes to 
remuneration arrangements the Committee consults with major shareholders and their representative bodies to obtain their views.
Over the past few years we have regularly consulted with shareholders regarding the operation of remuneration arrangements including 
the structure and stretch of the annual bonus plan, performance measures for the LTIP and the level of stretch in LTIP targets. In 2014 the 
Committee consulted with shareholders regarding the increases in basic salary for the Executive Directors and the implementation of a new 
LTIP in light of the expiry of the 2004 LTIP .
The Company remains committed to engaging with shareholders in relation to remuneration issues. 56 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Remuneration Committee report continued
The Directors' remuneration policy continued
Directors' report
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items
 - Fees for the Chairman and 
the Non-Executive Directors 
are determined taking 
account of the individual's 
responsibilities, the expected 
time commitment for the role 
and prevalent market rates. 
 - The Board is responsible 
for setting fees for the 
Non-Executive Directors 
with the Committee being 
responsible for setting fees 
for the Chairman. 
 - Fees are reviewed at 
appropriate intervals.
 - Basic fees are subject to the aggregate limit in the Company's 
Articles of Association. Any changes in this limit would be 
subject to shareholder approval.
 - Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee for 
membership of the Board with additional fees being paid 
to Non-Executive Directors who hold the position of 
Committee Chairman to take into account the additional 
responsibilities and workload. Additional fees may also 
be paid for other board responsibilities or roles if this is 
considered appropriate.
 - The Non-Executive Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee 
for the role.
 - Fees are paid in cash.
 - Current fees are follows:
  Chairman's fees -  165,880
  Basic non-executive director fees -  47,150
  Committee Chairman fee (Audit and Remuneration) - 
 10,700
  Senior Independant Director fee -  10,700
 - Fees may be increased in future years in line with the policy 
outlined above.
 - Non-Executive Directors do 
not receive incentive pay or 
share awards.
 - Non-Executive Directors do not 
currently receive any benefits. 
Benefits may be provided in the 
future if, in the view of the Board 
(or, in the case of the Chairman, 
the Committee), this was 
considered appropriate.
 - Travel and other reasonable 
expenses (including fees incurred 
in obtaining professional advice 
in the furtherance of their 
duties) incurred in the course 
of performing their duties are 
reimbursed to Non-Executive 
Directors.
Non-Executive Director Letters of appointment
The Non-Executive Directors have appointment letters, the terms of which recognise that their appointments are subject to the Company's 
Articles of Association and their services is at the direction of the shareholders.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors include the following terms:
Name Date of contract Date of appointment
Expiry/review date 
of current contract Notice period months
Philip Aiken 1 May 2012 1 May 2012 30 April 2015 3
Philip Dayer 2 January 2014 7 January 2008 2 January 2017 3
Jonathan Brooks 11 July 2013 12 July 2007 11 July 2016 3
Jennifer Allerton 6 March 2013 6 March 2014 1 July 2016 3
All Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent 
intervals of no more than three years.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for Non-Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. 
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any payments in lieu of notice.
The letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view from the Company Secretary upon request. 