 Avingtrans plc 
 
 
  
 
12
Report of the Directors on Remuneration 
 
Directors' remuneration policy 
The remuneration packages, including contract periods of Executive Directors, are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee.  The Remuneration Committee initially comprised the two Non-Executive 
Directors, J J Hamer and K M Baker.  Since 28 June 2002 S M Bruh has been Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.  It ensures that the remuneration packages are appropriate for their 
responsibilities, taking into consideration the overall financial and business position of the Group. 
 
Compliance 
The Remuneration Committee is both constituted and operated throughout the period in accordance 
with the principles outlined in the Stock Exchange Listing Rules derived from Schedule A of the 
Combined Code.  In framing the remuneration policy, full consideration has been given to the best 
practice provisions set out in Schedule B annexed to the listing rules.  The Auditors' Report set out on 
page 13 covers the disclosures referred to in this report which The London Stock Exchange specifies 
for audit.  Details of Directors' remuneration and share options are set out in note 7 and page 6 of the 
financial statements respectively.  Details of Directors' interests in shares are set out in the Directors' 
report. 
 
Base salary and benefits 
The Committee sets the salary of each Executive Director by reference to the responsibility of the 
position held and external market data.  Salaries are reviewed annually. 
 
Annual performance related bonus 
The Company operates a bonus scheme for its Directors which enables it to attract and retain high 
calibre senior management personnel who make a major contribution to the financial performance of 
the company.  Bonuses paid under the scheme are directly linked to the growth in the Group's 
earnings per share.  
 
Share options 
The Committee is responsible for approving grants to the Executive Directors and other Executives. 
The present scheme is considered unwieldy and out of date with current practice. RSM Robson 
Rhodes LLP has drawn up a new EMI scheme in accordance with best practice corporate governance 
and ABI guidelines. The new scheme will be implemented during October. Options may be exercised 
between three and ten years from the date the option is granted but only if certain performance 
criteria are satisfied.  No share options were exercised or granted in the financial year. 
 
Service agreements 
On 28 June 2002, S J Lawrence was appointed for a fixed term of two years, thereafter terminable on 
12 months notice by either party.  On 2 September, S M King was appointed for an initial period of six 
months, thereafter terminable on 6 months notice by either party. 
 
Pensions 
The Company was only responsible for the contributions to the defined contribution schemes elected 
by the Executive Directors. Details of contributions provided in the year are set out in Note 7 of the 
financial statements. 
 
Non-Executive Directors 
Non-Executive Directors' remuneration is reviewed by all members of the Board other than the Non-
Executive Director under review. 
 
 
S M Bruh 
Director 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
10 September 2003. 
 
 