 10
Report of the Directors on remuneration
Composition
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two Non-Executive Directors; S M Bruh (Chairman) and J J Hamer, and K M
Baker.
Principal function
The remuneration packages, including contract periods of Executive Directors and senior management, are determined by the
Remuneration Committee. It ensures that the remuneration packages are appropriate for their responsibilities, taking into
consideration the overall financial and business position of the Group.
Compliance 
The Remuneration Committee is both constituted and operated throughout the period in accordance with the principles
outlined in the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules derived from Schedule A of the Combined Code.  In framing the
remuneration policy, full consideration has been given to the best practice provisions set out in Schedule B annexed to the
listing rules.  
Base salary and benefits
The Committee sets the salary of each Executive Director by reference to the responsibility of the position held, performance
of the individual, and external market data.  Salaries are reviewed annually.
Annual performance related bonus
The Company operates a bonus scheme for its Directors which enables it to attract and retain high calibre senior management
personnel who make a major contribution to the financial performance of the company.  Bonuses paid under the scheme are
directly linked to the growth in the Group's earnings per share. Additional bonuses have been awarded by the Remuneration
Committee during the year and included in the cost of acquisition for the successful acquisitions which have resulted in a
significant increase in revenue, profitability, earnings per share, profile, share price and future prospects.
Share options
The Committee is responsible for approving grants to the Executive Directors. Options may be exercised between three and
ten years from the date the option is granted but only if certain performance criteria are satisfied. 
Pensions
The Company is responsible for the contributions to the defined contribution schemes selected by the Executive Directors.
Details of contributions provided in the year are set out later in this report.
Service agreements
K M Baker, S J Lawrence and S M King have service contract's which are terminable on 12 months notice by either party. The
Committee consider that these contracts are in line with market. 
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors' remuneration is reviewed by all members of the Board other than the Non-Executive Director under
review and takes the form solely of fees. J J Hamer and S M Bruh have a letter of appointment terminable on 3 months notice
by either party.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive or Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the
event of loss of office. The Remuneration Committee considers the circumstances of individual cases of early termination
and determines compensation payments accordingly with the aim not to reward poor performance.
Directors' emoluments
Details of the remuneration of all Directors are set out in note 6 to the Accounts. Report of the Directors on remuneration (continued)
Share options
Details of the share options of all Directors are as follows:
Weighted
At 31 May At 31 May Average
2004 Granted Exercised Expired 2005 exercise price  
Executive:
K M Baker 60,000 - - - 60,000 0.40
S J Lawrence 50,000 - - - 50,000 0.40
S M King 50,000 25,000 - - 75,000 0.47
The share options are exercisable from 2 October 2006 to 25 October 2014 if the basic earnings per share of Avingtrans plc
during the period between grant and exercise, is at least equal to the increase in the Retail Price Index during the same period
and if the Director agrees to release their rights under the Warrant package for the same number of shares.
Warrant packages
The following warrants were issued for an exercise price of 50p to the following Directors as part of the purchase agreement
of the Jena Group and will vest if certain performance targets are achieved.
Number of warrants
K M Baker 1,040,000
S J Lawrence 560,000
The warrant targets are as follows:
Earnings per share target Warrants exercisable
Following audited accounts for the year to:
31 May 2005 9.93p for year ended 31 May 2005 80% of warrants
31 May 2006 12.41p for year ended 31 May 2006 20% of warrants
If in respect of any financial year the relevant earnings per share target (  EPS Target Figure'') has not been reached, so that
the Auditors' Certificate confirms that the actual earnings per share for the relevant Subscription Period (the   Actual EPS
Figure'') is less than the EPS Target Figure, then the relevant tranche of Warrants capable of being exercised in respect of the
relevant Subscription Period shall be reduced by a percentage being twice the percentage by which the Actual EPS Figure fell
short of the EPS Target Figure.
In the event that the above paragraph applies, the Warrants no longer exercisable in respect of a Subscription Period may be
exercised by the warrant holder on or at any time after the next Subscription Period in respect of which the Auditors' Certificate
confirms that the Actual EPS Figure for that subsequent Subscription Period is equal to or greater than the EPS Target Figure
for the same subsequent Subscription Period.
S M Bruh
Director
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 September 2005.
11