 Relations with shareholders (continued)
The Company counts all proxy votes and except where a poll is called, it indicates the level of proxies lodged on each resolution
and the balance for and against the resolution, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
A separate resolution on each substantially separate issue is proposed at the Annual General Meeting.  The Chairman of the
Board and each of the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, are available to answer questions at
the Annual General Meeting.  All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Each year, every shareholder receives a full Annual Report and Financial Statements.  At the half year, all shareholders receive
an Interim Report.  Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 days before the meeting.
Accountability and Audit
The respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors are set out on pages 10 and 15.  The Board has established an Audit
Committee.  The Audit Committee's primary responsibilities include monitoring of internal control, approving accounting
policies, major accounting issues, appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and reviewing the interim and annual
financial statements before submission to the Board. It meets twice a year with the external auditors to review their findings. At
these meetings the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to discuss findings with the auditors in the absence of the
Executive Directors.
To follow best practice and in accordance with Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Auditing Practices Board, the external auditors
have discussions with the audit committee on the subject of auditor independence and have confirmed their independence in
writing.
Internal control
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for ensuring that the Group has in place a system of internal control which
is both effective and appropriate to the nature and size of the business.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control
throughout the accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements, although it should be
understood that such systems are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss. The Group' s system of control includes:
  A comprehensive budgeting system with annual budgets approved by the Directors.
  Monthly monitoring of actual results against budget and regular review of variances.
  Close involvement of Directors who approve all significant transactions.
  Financial and operating control procedures for all management of the Group.
  Identification and appraisal by the Board of the major risks affecting the business and the financial controls.
  Bank facilities and other treasury functions are monitored and policy changes approved by the Board.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function and concluded that this would not be appropriate at present due
to the size of the Group.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements.
S M King
Company Secretary
10 September 2008
Corporate governance (continued)
12
11574 Avingtrans Report and Accounts NEW3.qxp  12/9/08  19:04  Page 12