 Composition
The Remuneration Committee during the period comprised K M Baker (replaced by R S McDowell) and the two Non-executive
Directors; S M Bruh (Chairman) and J J Hamer. From 1 August 2008 J J Hamer chaired the Remuneration Committee.
Principal function
The remuneration packages, including contract periods of Executive Directors and senior management, are determined by the
Remuneration Committee. It ensures that the remuneration packages are appropriate for their responsibilities, taking into
consideration the overall financial and business position of the Group. The remuneration of R S McDowell was determined by
the two Non-executive Directors.
Compliance
The Remuneration Committee was both constituted and operated throughout the period in accordance with the principles
outlined in the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules derived from Schedule A of the Combined Code.
Base salary and benefits
The Committee sets the salary of each Executive Director by reference to the responsibility of the position held, performance of
the individual, and external market data.  Salaries are reviewed annually.
Annual performance related bonus
The Company operates a bonus scheme for its Directors which enables it to attract and retain high calibre senior management
personnel who make a major contribution to the financial performance of the Group.  Bonuses paid under the scheme are directly
linked to the annual growth in the Group' s earnings per share or annual increase in the share price of the company at the balance
sheet date.
Share options
The Committee is responsible for approving grants of share options to the Executive Directors. Options may be exercised
between three and ten years from the date the option is granted but only if certain performance criteria are satisfied.
Pensions
The Company is responsible for the contributions to the defined contribution schemes selected by the Executive Directors.
Details of contributions provided in the year are set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
Service agreements
R S McDowell, S M King and P J Kenny have service contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice by either party. The
Committee consider that these contracts are in line with the market.
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors' remuneration is reviewed by all members of the Board other than the Non-executive Director under
review and takes the form solely of fees. J J Hamer has a letter of appointment terminable on 3 months notice by either party.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive or Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the
event of loss of office.  The Remuneration Committee considers the circumstances of individual cases of early termination and
determines compensation payments accordingly with the aim not to reward poor performance.
Directors' emoluments
Details of the remuneration of all Directors are set out in note 7 to the Accounts.
Report of the Directors on remuneration
13
11574 Avingtrans Report and Accounts NEW3.qxp  12/9/08  19:04  Page 13