 22/23
Axon Annual report and accounts 2004 Report on corporate governance
Social, Environmental and Ethical matters The Board recognises the obligations that the Group has towards those
with whom it has dealings, the environment and the responsibility for ethical conduct and that such factors are
increasingly relevant to financial performance. The Board regularly reviews the significance of social, environmental 
and ethical matters to the business of the Company and the Group.
Social Axon is a socially responsible employer and various initiatives are in place to ensure that staff are treated fairly as
they are critical to its business success.
Communication is critical to employee relations and the Group uses quarterly staff forums and monthly electronic
newsletters to ensure all employees are fully informed about its plans and progress, including the developments in the
market in which Axon operates. Quarterly offsite meetings are held for senior management and directors to review
strategy implementation and key business opportunities. An electronic forum is also available to employees who wish to
ask directors anonymous questions.
Annual performance reviews are conducted for all employees and individual training and development needs are
identified to ensure staff receive supplementary training.
The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its performance through its share options schemes. A summary
of such schemes is set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
During 2004 the Group introduced a flexible benefits scheme which allows eligible employees the ability to exercise
choice over certain elements of their reward package.
It is the Group's policy that disabled people, whether registered or not, should receive full and fair consideration for all
job vacancies for which they are suitable applicants. Employees who become disabled during their career will be
retained in employment wherever possible and will be given support with rehabilitation and retraining. The Group is
prepared to modify procedures or equipment, wherever this is practicable, so that full use may be made of an
individual's abilities.
Environment Being primarily office based, and given the nature of our business, Axon does not have a material impact
on the environment. However , the Group and its employees try to ensure that both services and products are procured
in an environmentally friendly manner and that waste materials are disposed of appropriately, including recycling where
economically possible. Where appropriate, electronic communication methods such as email, telephone and video
conference facilities are used to avoid non-essential travel. 
Ethical conduct The Board is committed to uphold ethical conduct throughout the Group.
Health and Safety Axon operates a formal Health and Safety policy, which is regularly monitored and reviewed by 
the Board. Under the policy significant incidents are reported without delay to the Board. No such incidents occurred 
in 2004.
Roy Merritt
Chairman, audit committee
3 March 2005 Remuneration report
For the year ended 
31 December 2004
Unaudited information This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors' Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors'
remuneration. As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting of the Company to which the financial statements will be presented.
Remuneration committee's objectives The terms of reference of the committee are:
  to agree a set of policies within which each executive director's and key senior manager's remuneration package is
agreed; and
  to assist the Board in wider aspects of remuneration policy, such as the granting of share options.
Remuneration policy From the establishment of Axon, the Group's policy has been to attract, retain and motivate the
best people for each area of the business and to align their objectives to Group performance in order to deliver and
grow value to shareholders.
The remuneration committee objectively compares the remuneration packages of an executive with that of a similar
executive in the same industry sector and to those in other appropriate companies based on size, complexity of industry
and geographical mix. The remuneration committee, to date, has not commissioned reports specific to Axon from
independent consultants but reviews independent market research including trends in competitors and other
appropriate companies' remuneration policies. No director plays a part in the discussion of his or her remuneration. 
Executive directors The remuneration packages of executives will continue to comprise an annual base salary, 
cash bonus and participation in long-term incentive schemes. No other annual employment-related benefits are
provided since the remuneration committee believes that the emphasis should be on reward for Company performance.
Overall performance targets relating to the cash bonus plan and to the executive share option schemes are, in the
opinion of the remuneration committee, challenging. Bonuses based on Group performance targets form a substantial
proportion (up to 50%) of total remuneration calculated on overall performance targets. The rewards earned by the
executive directors in 2004 have reflected the results of the Company.
Base salary The base salary of executive directors will be determined by the remuneration committee at the start of
each year . 
Mark Hunter and Stephen Cardell received lower base salaries than similar executives in comparable companies. It has
been determined that, whilst the total remuneration targets should be comparable, the bonus element based on
company performance should be higher for them than for similar executive roles in those comparator companies.
Cash bonus The remuneration committee sets the objectives that must be met if a cash bonus is to be paid. 
Cash bonuses for executive directors are based entirely on the financial performance of the Group and are not capped. 
The financial performance measure for executive directors in 2004 was year-on-year growth in PBT and earnings per
share. A total of  400,000 cash bonuses were awarded in respect of 2004 as significant year-on-year growth of PBT
was achieved. PBT growth year-on-year has been selected by the remuneration committee as the appropriate
performance measure for 2005 for executive directors. The Group does not publish a profit forecast for 2005 and bonus
targets cannot be disclosed prior to 31 December 2005. Consistent with previous financial years, the remuneration
committee has set significant year-on-year growth targets which will have to be achieved for cash bonuses to be
payable. Any bonuses paid by the Group are non-pensionable. 
Long-term incentives The Company operates five long-term incentive share schemes: Axon Solutions Limited
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, Axon Solutions Limited Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, 
Axon Group plc Approved Discretionary Share Option Scheme, Axon Group plc Unapproved Discretionary Share
Option Scheme and Axon Group plc 2001 Unapproved Discretionary Share Option Scheme.
The details of the directors' holdings are listed on page 25 of this report. Full details of the schemes are in note 31 to the
financial statements.
Pensions The Group does not contribute to any pension schemes on behalf of executive directors.
External directorships The remuneration committee has discretion to approve whether an executive director may
accept external appointments. Stephen Cardell holds one other executive directorship, which was approved by the
remuneration committee on 23 February 2004. No executive director currently holds any non-executive directorships.
Non-executive directors The Board determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors. Their remuneration is
not pensionable and they are not eligible for performance-related remuneration by way of a cash bonus or participation
in any share option scheme.
Service contracts Set out below are details of the contractual arrangements in respect of current directors of 
the Company:
Date of contract Notice period Compensation payable*
M O Hunter 11 January 1999 6 months Nil
S Cardell 31 October 2001 3 months Nil
B S Thomas 15 February 1999 12 months Nil
D L Oertle 28 April 2000 3 months Nil
R Merritt 22 March 2004 3 months Nil
*There are no provisions in any of the service contracts for compensation to be paid in the event of early termination. 24/25
Axon Annual report and accounts 2004 Remuneration report
Axon has been a member of the techMARK All-Share index since its inception in 1999. techMARK companies represent
a broad range of industries from the computer hardware, semiconductor , telecommunications equipment, computer
services, internet and software sectors, but all companies share a key attribute - technological innovation. In the opinion
of the directors of Axon Group plc, the techMARK All-Share index is the most suitable index against which Axon's share
price should be tracked. The graph shows the value over five years of  100 invested in Axon shares on 1 January 2000
assuming that all dividend income is reinvested compared to the FTSE techMARK All-Share index.
Audited information
Directors' emoluments Full details of each director's emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2004 are 
given below:
2004 2003
Performance- Performance-
Fixed related Fixed related
emoluments emoluments emoluments emoluments
Salary/fees Benefits Bonus T otalSalary/fees Benefits Bonus Total
 '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000
M O Hunter 150 - 200 350 150 - 75 225
S Cardell* 150 11 200 361 13 1 100 114
B S Thomas 29-- 29 35-- 35
K F Harrison** 12-- 12 25-- 25
D L Oertle 29-- 29 25-- 25
R Merritt 24-- 24 ----
394 11 400 805 248 1 175 424
*S Cardell was appointed to the Board on 2 December 2003; therefore the 2003 comparative figures reflect only one
month's fixed emoluments and his performance related bonus for the six month period ending 31 December 2003
which was paid after his date of appointment.
**K F Harrison resigned on 28 May 2004.
Included within the above are the following amounts that were paid to third party service companies for the services of
the directors:
2004 2003
 '000  '000
B S Thomas 29 35
K F Harrison 12 25
D L Oertle 29 25
70 85
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Axon's share price performance compared to FTSE techMARK All-Share Index
Jan 00 Jun 00 Nov 00 Apr 01 Sep 01 Feb 02 Jul 02 Dec 02 May 03 Oct 03 Mar 04 Aug 04
FTSE techMARK All-Share Index - Price Index Axon Group Techmark 100
Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
Index