 Remuneration report
This report sets out the company's policy on the remuneration of its Directors which it followed for the year under review and intends to follow
for the current financial year and subsequent years. It also provides details of the Directors' remuneration packages and contracts. The report
will be submitted for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the company.
Remuneration Committee
Responsibility for determining and approving the remuneration packages of the executive Directors and certain other senior group executives
has been delegated by the Board to a Remuneration Committee ( the Committee') consisting solely of all the non-executive Directors of the
company considered to be independent by the Board. Those Directors who served on the Committee during the year under review 
(in each case they served for the whole year), were:
The Rt Hon Lord Hesketh (Committee Chairman)
D J Shah 
M J Turner
J L Rennocks
Sir Nigel Essenhigh
Lord Hesketh and Mr Turner will stand down from the Committee with effect from the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July. 
Biographical details of the members of the Committee are set out on page 16.
The Committee invites Mr Campbell and Mr Rogers to attend meetings in their capacities as Chairman and Group Chief Executive
respectively, but neither is present when their own remuneration is under discussion. The Company Secretary attends as Secretary to the
Committee. The Committee has access to market research on remuneration. Advice on matters affecting remuneration is sought by or on
behalf of the Committee from Mr Campbell and Mr Rogers (other than in respect of their own remuneration), in connection with the structuring
and operation of share awards and share schemes from Pinsent Masons (solicitors with recognised expertise and experience in executive and
employee share schemes) and, for advice on executive Director remuneration (including in relation to share options and long-term incentive
plans) from Inbucon Limited (remuneration consultants). Pinsent Masons also provide legal services to group companies. Inbucon Limited does
not provide other services to group companies. Both firms have been appointed for these purposes, with the Committee's approval, by the
company (acting through the Group Company Secretary).
Remuneration policy
Basic policy
The remuneration policy of the Committee is normally to provide executive Directors and senior executives with basic remuneration packages
that, looked at as a whole, are competitive having regard to companies of a similar size in business sectors in which the group operates. 
The policy provides an opportunity to earn upper quartile rewards for upper quartile performance, and facilitates the recruitment, retention and
motivation of executives in the light of the company's needs and development objectives. 
Remuneration packages for executive Directors consist, to varying degrees as between individuals, of fixed elements - basic salary, pension
entitlements and typical benefits in kind - and performance-related elements - annual bonus schemes (linked to company and/or personal
performance) and share-based or share-related long-term incentive schemes, including grants of options under share option schemes and
awards of shares under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (L-TIP). This report describes the various elements of the packages for each of 
Mr Campbell, Mr Rogers and Mr Tame for the year under review.
The company required extra services from Mr Campbell during the year, significantly beyond his contractual requirements, in connection
with the offer process for the acquisition of Peterhouse Group plc and the subsequent initial stages of the merger. The Committee determined
to compensate him for those additional services in the amount of  250,000.
For the year, the performance-related elements of their packages consisted, for Mr Rogers and Mr Tame, of annual bonus schemes 
(the value of which was capped as described below) and, for each of Mr Campbell, Mr Rogers and Mr Tame, share awards under the L-TIP .
Remuneration advice from Inbucon Limited indicates that our remuneration structure for executive Directors is consistent with mid-market
practice amongst UK companies of comparable size. The Committee is sensitive to the need to set Directors' remuneration having regard to pay
and conditions in the group as a whole and is satisfied that the approach taken by the company is fair and reasonable, compatible with current
market practice and in the best interest of the shareholders.
The Board encourages executive Directors to use company shares acquired under option or LTIP schemes, over time, to build and maintain
a personal holding of shares equivalent in value to around a year's basic salary.
Performance-related rewards:
Annual bonus schemes:
The Remuneration Committee determines a performance-related annual bonus scheme for Mr Rogers and Mr Tame at the beginning of each
financial year. For the year ended 31 March 2005 the annual bonus payable to them was dependent on the profit before tax (pre-exceptionals
and goodwill amortisation) achieved by the group against budget. A 15% bonus is awarded for on-target performance rising to a maximum 
of 40% according to the level of out-performance of target. A bonus of up to 10% of salary is also payable for personal performance and
achievement of non-financial personal objectives. The maximum potential annual bonus for each of them is, therefore, 50% of basic salary. 
The financial targets were adjusted to take account of the acquisition of Peterhouse Group Plc towards the end of the first quarter of the year
under review. Similar schemes are in place for Mr Rogers and Mr Tame for the current financial year. Annual bonuses are not pensionable. 
Mr Campbell has no contractual entitlement to an annual bonus. 
Long-term incentives:
Since 1 April 2003 executive share options are no longer granted to executive Directors: they receive awards under the L-TIP, further information
about which appears below.
Share options:
Executive Directors hold share options granted before April 2003 under the Babcock 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the
Babcock 1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme ( the 1999 Schemes') and, in the case of Mr Campbell and Mr Rogers, under option
agreements (described further on page 28) which were subject to performance criteria as described below.
Details of executive share options and share awards under the L-TIP already granted to Directors are set out in the tables on pages 28
and 29.
Relative importance of variable and fixed pay
Variable, performance-related remuneration represents approximately one-third of the total remuneration package for Mr Rogers and Mr Tame,
and one-fifth for Mr Campbell, if the company achieves its financial performance target for a given year and if share awards made in that year
vest at minimum. If maximum annual bonus is achieved due to out-performance of target for a given year and there is full vesting of the share
award made for that year, the proportions increase to approximately two-thirds and a half respectively. This assumes that the value of vested
shares remains the same as on the date of award. To the extent that those shares increase in value the proportion of variable pay will increase.
Remuneration report
24
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (L-TIP)
In 2003 shareholders approved the establishment of a long-term incentive plan (L-TIP) under which share-based awards may be made to
executive Directors and other senior executives. Awards made under the L-TIP can be made as rights (structured as nil-cost options) to acquire
shares granted either by the company or by the trustees of The Babcock Employees' Share Trust or the Peterhouse Employee Benefit Trust
acting on the recommendation of the Committee.
Under the L-TIP, executive Directors and other selected senior executives may be awarded each year conditional entitlements to shares in
the company ( Award Shares') or to a cash sum whose value is linked to a notional award of Award Shares. It is policy that such awards are made
only to executive Directors of the company and a limited number of other senior executives who are key to the group. The initial market value of
the shares over which any such award is made in any year may be up to 100% of the amount of the participant's basic annual salary at the date
of grant (save as may be adjusted to reflect the payment of employer's National Insurance). 
Performance Targets: L-TIP share awards and option grants under the 1999 Schemes
Performance targets are set by the Committee when options are granted or share awards made, having regard to current market conditions
and in the light of the need to ensure that such awards serve the purpose of motivating and retaining key staff. Vesting of share awards or
option grants is according to the extent to which those targets are met or exceeded.
For both share awards under the L-TIP and option grants under the 1999 Schemes the performance period is effectively a period of three
financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is made or option granted, and performance is measured as at the end of
that period. There is no retesting of performance.
Review of performance measures
Options granted under the 1999 Schemes were made subject to a comparative Total Shareholder Return ( TSR') performance measure
requiring the company's TSR performance over the performance period to be compared to that of a specified comparator group. For options
granted before 2003 the comparator group was the companies who at the date of grant comprised the FTSE Engineering and Machinery
Sector, in which the company then appeared. For grants in 2003 and 2004 the comparator group was all those companies comprising 
the FTSE All Share Index (other than investment trusts) on the date of grant. The performance test provided that there would be no vesting
unless the company's ranking at the end of the performance period was at least immediately above median in which case 25% of the options
would vest, with 100% vesting for top quartile ranking and proportionate vesting on a straight-line basis for a ranking between those points.
For the 2003 and 2004 L-TIP awards an additional precondition to vesting was imposed - there could be no vesting unless the company's
earnings per share (pre-goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) in the third year of the performance period was at least 9.27%
(representing a 3% per annum compound growth rate) greater than the basic earnings per share (pre-goodwill and exceptional items) for 
the financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which the award was made. 
At the time of the share awards and option grants in 2003 and 2004 the Remuneration Committee considered that using the companies
comprising the FTSE All-Share Index (other than investment trusts) as the comparator group was an appropriate measure. When those awards
were made the company had moved from its classification in the FTSE Engineering and Machinery Index at the end of 2002, but had a support
services offering that was fairly narrowly defined with a heavy reliance on business with the Ministry of Defence. It was not easy to compare the
company with other support sector companies as it had not fully completed and integrated the further strategic acquisition in support services
that had been under consideration for some time (which was realised with the acquisition of Peterhouse Group plc only shortly before the 2004
awards were made). 
With the integration of the Peterhouse businesses, the Remuneration Committee sought advice from Inbucon Limited as to new
appropriate performance measures to be attached to both L-TIP share awards and share option grants, given the need both to align Directors'
and senior executives' interests with shareholders and to make them genuinely helpful in incentivising and retaining those Directors and senior
executives. The company believed that completion of the Peterhouse acquisition, which broadened the company's support services offering,
allowed for a more appropriately defined list of comparator companies to be identified. 
The review concluded that the objectives of retention and motivation and alignment with shareholder interests can be served by having
share awards under the L-TIP vest partly according to comparative performance measured against a group of companies with similar businesses
(see below) and partly according to challenging growth in earnings per share ( eps'). This approach will be taken with any share awards made
under the L-TIP in the current financial year and the same approach will be applied to the awards made in 2004 (which are only one-third of the
way through their performance period and were made almost simultaneously with the completion of the Peterhouse acquisition). 50% of the
Award Shares will vest according to comparative TSR performance and 50% according to eps growth. In each case the performance period will
be the period of three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is made, and performance will be measured as at
the end of the period.
To the extent that vesting depends on comparative TSR performance a ranking immediately above the median level in the comparator
table will result in 25% of the relevant Award Shares vesting and a ranking in the top quartile would result in 100% vesting. Rankings between
these threshold levels would result in proportionate vesting calculated on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%. The comparator group
of listed companies for the 2004 awards and any awards made in the current financial year is:
AEA Technology, W.S. Atkins, Aggreko, Amec, Bodycote, Capita, Carillion, Cobham, Interserve, Laing (John), Mitie, Mouchel-Parkman, 
PHS Group, Rentokil Initial, Serco, VT Group, and WSP Group.
These companies were selected in consultation with Inbucon Limited as being an appropriate range of support services providers against
which to compare the company given the nature of its and their businesses. 
To the extent that vesting depends on eps growth, 25% of the award will vest if eps growth (adjusted to exclude exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation), over the performance period, is equivalent to a real compound annual growth rate of 4%, with full vesting if this reaches
8%. Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between these two points. International Financial Reporting Standards will be taken into account in
both the opening position (which may have to be restated) and the assessment of performance.
The review also concluded that share options granted in the current financial year and those granted in 2004 should have a performance
test consisting solely of the above eps test, rather than a TSR performance measure. This does not affect executive Directors as no such options
were or will be granted to them. 
Further details of the rules of the L-TIP and the 1999 Schemes are set out below the tables on pages 28 and 29.
25
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005 Remuneration report continued
26
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005
Performance graph
The graph below, compiled by Inbucon Limited, shows the total shareholder return for a holding in the company's shares for the period from
31 March 2000 to 31 March 2005 relative to a holding of shares representing the FTSE All-Share Index (excluding investment trusts). This is the
same index as has been used for this purpose in earlier Remuneration Reports, being a broad index that allows comparison of the company's
performance against the performance of the stock market as a whole.
Directors' pensions
UK-based executive Directors of the company are eligible for membership, by invitation, of the company's defined benefit pension plan. 
This would entitle them, subject to Inland Revenue limits and period of service, to a retirement pension of up to two-thirds of their base salary
in the 12 months prior to attaining age 60 and life assurance cover of up to four times base salary up to the earnings cap. For those eligible
executive Directors invited to participate in the pension scheme whose earnings exceed the Inland Revenue earnings cap, the company will, 
on request, establish a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (FURBS) and take out additional life assurance cover to provide
additional retirement and life assurance benefits based on salary in excess of the earnings cap. The company may in lieu of membership of 
the defined benefit plan or a FURBS make a salary enhancement to reflect this, offer membership of a defined contribution scheme and/or
make payments to a personal pension plan. Mr Tame is currently a member of the company's defined benefit scheme and benefits from a
FURBS. Neither Mr Campbell nor Mr Rogers receive pensions benefits from the company, and their salaries take this into account.
The company is aware of the proposed changes to the taxation of pensions that will come into effect in April 2006. The company's policy
is to remain competitive in the marketplace to attract and retain the calibre of employee it needs. Subject to that, it is not the company's policy
to compensate employees for tax changes.
A summary of Directors' pension entitlements is set out at page 27.
Non-executive Directors
It is currently company policy that non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the company's share, pension or bonus schemes. 
They are remunerated solely by fees that are reviewed against market practice at least every three years by the executive Directors, to whom
the task has been delegated by the Board. 
Directors' emoluments and compensation (audited)
The Directors' emoluments for the year ended 31 March 2005 are set out in the table below:
Total Total
Year ended Year ended
Salary Benefits** 31 March 31 March
or fee Annual bonus* in kind 2005 2004
Director  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000
Executive
G A Campbell (Chairman, part-time from 1 August 2003) 21 8 250 1 469 289
P L Rogers (Chief Executive Officer) 378 1 77 22 577 526
W T ame (Group Finance Director) 228 103 20 351 343
Non-executive
The Rt Hon Lord Hesketh KBE 52-- 52 52
J Rennocks 32-- 32 32
D J Shah 27-- 27 27
M J Turner CBE 27-- 27 27
Sir Nigel Essenhigh 27 - 2 29 28
T otal 989 530 45 1,564 1 ,324
*The amount shown for Mr Campbell represents extra remuneration for the additional services he provided in respect of the acquisition
and integration of Peterhouse Group Plc as explained on page 24 which does not form part of his regular remuneration. 
**Benefits comprised medical insurance, home to work expenses and accommodation expenses for Mr Rogers and for Mr Tame. 
In addition Mr Tame had contributions to FURBS. Mr Campbell had home to work expenses reimbursed. 
The fees for Lord Hesketh reflect his additional duties as Deputy Chairman and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Mr Rennocks' fees
reflect his additional duties as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Bonus payments and benefits in kind are not pensionable. 
Total Shareholder Return: Babcock International Group vs FTSE All-Share Index (excluding Investment Trusts)  
and FTSE Services Index
Cumulative Total Shareholder Return Value of  100 investment on 31 March 2000
 250
 200
 150
 100
 50
31/3/00 31/3/01 31/3/02 31/3/03 31/3/04 31/3/05
Babcock International Group FTSE All-Share Index 27
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005
Directors' pensions (audited)
Babcock International Group Pension Scheme
Mr Tame is a member of the upper tier of the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme. 
Directors' pension entitlements under the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme (defined benefit) are set out in the following table:
Increase in
accrued 
benefits
excluding
inflation Transfer value
Accrued during the Change in Transfer Transfer of increase in Increase in
pension at year ended accrued benefits value at value at accrued benefits transfer value
31 March 31 March after allowing 1 April 31 March less director's less director's
2005 2005 for inflation 2004 2005 contributions contributions
Director   pa   pa        
W T ame 11 ,1 78 3,629 3,395 86,51 1 1 38,863 29,276 42,1 02
(1) Inflation has been taken as 3.1% for the purposes of calculating increases in transfer values and pension earned.
(2) The transfer value of the increase in pension accrued is calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN1 1, and is stated after
deducting members' contributions. 
(3) The figures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of death in service benefits under the Scheme.
(4) The figures in the above table make no allowance for any benefits in respect of earnings in excess of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
(5) If any member has significant benefits retained in any pension scheme provided by previous employers then the pension entitlements
shown above may be restricted to a lower amount and the figures may need to be reduced accordingly. In calculating the above figures for 
Mr W Tame no account has been taken of any retained benefits which he may have.
(6) No payments have been made to retired Directors in excess of the retirement benefit to which they were entitled on the date the benefits
first became payable or, if later, 31 March 1997 .
Other pension arrangements (audited)
The amount of contributions made to the Directors' own pension plans or FURBS and former Directors' FURBS arrangements, including the cost
of providing any additional life assurance cover, are set out in the table below: 
2005 2004
Director  '000  '000
W T ame 11 10
Contributions to a FURBS for Mr Tame are fixed such that the total cost to the company, including tax and National Insurance, is 20% of basic
salary over the earnings cap plus the cost of providing additional life assurance cover for earnings above the cap. Remuneration report continued
28
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005
Directors' share options (audited)
Details of Directors' share options are set out in the table below and the notes beneath it:
Number Number
of shares of shares Exercisable
subject to subject to (subject to
options at Granted Exercised Lapsed options at Exercise vestingwhere
Option 1 April during during during 31 March price not yet vested)
Director scheme 2004 the year the year the year 2005* (pence) from Expiry date
G A Campbell a 560,975 - - - 560,975 1 23.00 Nov 2003 Nov 2010
b 30,202 - - 7 ,853 22,349 99.33 Jun 2004 Jun 201 1
c 282,573 - - 73,469 209,104 99.33 Jun 2004 Jun 201 1
c317,590 - - - 31 7 ,590 1 24.50 Jun 2005 Jun 201 2
P L Rogers a401 ,606 - - - 401,606 1 24.50 Jun 2005 Jun 201 2
W T ame b 28,754 - - 7 ,476 21,278 104.33 Jan 2005 Jan 201 2
c201 ,285 - - 52,334 148,951 104.33 Jan 2005 Jan 201 2
c1 98, 125--- 198, 125 1 24.50 Jun 2005 Jun 201 2
*Those shown in italics are vested.
Where:
a = Share Option Agreement.
b = Babcock 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme.
c = Babcock 1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme.
During the year, a former Director, Mr M Easton, exercised the outstanding options held by him of 17,232 shares at an option exercise price of
99.33p per share. The mid-market closing price for the shares on the date he exercised the options was 133.0p.
There were no options exercised during the year by any of the current Directors. 
The exercise prices of the options granted under the company's executive share options schemes were not set at a discount to the market
value of the company's shares at the date of grant, with the exercise price being determined by reference to the average of the mid-market
quotation of a share as shown by the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the grant date.
Directors may, subject to vesting in accordance with the applicable performance criteria, exercise options granted under the 1999
Schemes between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Subject to the rules of the schemes, options may be exercised earlier in
other circumstances such as on leaving the group in certain circumstances or in the event of a change of control, but normally of not more than
a time-apportioned proportion and then only having regard to the company's performance. 
Each of Mr Campbell and Mr Rogers were recruited on terms that provided for the issue, shortly after their respective appointments, 
of share option contracts with the Trustee of the Babcock Employees' Share Trust enabling them to purchase shares in the company equivalent
in value (at the effective date of the contract) to twice their then rates of basic salary. These options (which are shown in the above table as
being granted pursuant to a Share Option Agreement) take the form of bilateral contracts between the Trustee and Mr Campbell and the
Trustee and Mr Rogers each on terms, including as to performance criteria, which mirror those governing options granted under The Babcock
1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, save only that if the company comes under the control of another person or persons in
consequence of a general takeover offer, these options granted pursuant to the option agreements become immediately exercisable in respect
of all of the shares over which they are held. The performance criterion applicable under the option contracts is the TSR based criterion
(comparator group: Engineering and Machinery section of the FTSE All-Share Index mentioned on page 26 above as applying to share options
granted under the 1999 schemes before 2003). The provisions of the option contracts cannot be altered to the advantage of Mr Campbell 
or Mr Rogers without the prior approval of the company's shareholders in general meeting. The benefits under the option contracts are 
not pensionable. 29
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005
Directors' share awards Under the L-TIP (audited)
Details of share awards made to Directors are set out in the table below:
Number Number
of shares of shares
subject to subject to Market value Exercisable
award at Granted Exercised Lapsed award at of each share (subject to
1 April during during during 31 March at date vesting)
Director 2004 the year the year the year 2005 of award from Expiry date
G A Campbell 167 ,400--- 167 ,400 11 3.5 Jul 2006 Jul 201 3
-1 58,730 - - 158,730 1 26.0 Jul 2007 Jul 2014
P L Rogers 255,506--- 255,506 11 3.5 Jul 2006 Jul 201 3
-281,746-- 281,7 46 1 26.0 Jul 2007 Jul 2014
W T ame 17 1 ,806 - - 17 1,806 11 3.5 Jul 2006 Jul 201 3
-1 62,698 - - 162,698 1 26.0 Jul 2007 Jul 2014
None of the awards have so far vested.
The awards were made, by the trustee of the Babcock Employee Share Trust, as conditional rights to acquire shares (effectively nil cost
options), and the number of shares awarded was based on the average of the mid-market closing price of the company's shares for the three
business days preceding the date of the award. For each of Mr Rogers and Mr Tame the value of the awards on grant was equivalent to his
annual salary at the date of grant. For Mr Campbell the award in 2003 was equivalent to his anticipated annual salary as part-time Chairman
which took effect on 1 August 2003. The value of his award in 2004 was equivalent to his annual salary at the date of the award. Subject to
satisfaction of the performance criteria (see page 25) attached to the awards, the Directors may call for the release to them of the shares
subject to the award during the above shown exercise periods. Subject to the rules of the plan, an earlier release of shares may be allowed by
the Remuneration Committee (for example, in the event of a cessation of employment or a change in control) but normally of not more than 
a time-apportioned proportion and then only having regard to the company's performance.
There were no changes in the current Directors' share options or share awards between 31 March 2005 and 25 May 2005.
The company's mid-market share price at close of business on 31 March 2005 was 149.0p. The highest and lowest mid-market share
prices in the year ended 31 March 2005 were 151.0p and 104.25p respectively.
Service contracts
The following table sets out a summary of the Directors' service contracts or terms of appointment.
Executive Directors
Name Date of service contract Unexpired term Notice period
G A Campbell 31 July 2003 1 2 months 1 2 months from company, six months from Director
(amended by letter
dated 5 May 2004)
P L Rogers 31 July 2003 1 2 months 1 2 months from company, six months from Director
(amended by letter 
dated 5 May 2004)
W T ame 20 September 2001 1 2 months 1 2 months from company, six months from Director
(amended by letter 
dated 5 May 2004)
The company's policy for executive Directors' service contracts is for them to be capable of being terminated by the company on not more
than 12 months' notice, and for the company to reserve the right to terminate those contracts without full notice by payment of basic salary 
in lieu of notice. In the event of a change of control of the company, the executive Directors' contracts provide that within 90 days of the
occurrence of the change of control, the executive Director may terminate his employment forthwith. In that case, or if, following a change 
of control the Director's appointment is terminated within 12 months, the Director is entitled to a termination payment equal to 100% of his
annual salary (plus, in the case of Mr Rogers and Mr Tame, an additional 40% in lieu of bonus and all other benefits). If, however, the Director
exercises his right to terminate his employment contract within 90 days of a change of control, he will only be entitled to be paid, for up to 
a period of 12 months, on a monthly basis, his basic salary (plus, in the case of Mr Rogers and Mr Tame, 40% in lieu of bonus and all other
contractual entitlements) but any amount that they receive by way of income from other sources within that 12 month period, if it exceeds
10% of their salary, that they would not have been able to earn had they continued in employment with the company is deductible from 
the amounts otherwise payable by the company. Directors' service contracts terminate automatically on the Director reaching the age of 60. 
In the event of the termination of a Director's service contract by the company (other than following a change of control or by the exercise 
of the company's option to pay salary in lieu of notice) the company will have regard to all the circumstances in determining the amount of
compensation, if any, payable to him in connection with that termination. Save as mentioned above, the contracts do not contain provisions 
for contractual payments on termination. Non-executive Directors
Date of appointment Expiry of present term 
Name as a Director of appointment*
Lord Hesketh 6 October 1 993 AGM for 2006
M J Turner 5 June 1996 31 December 2005
D J Shah 15 June 1999 AGM for 2007
J L Rennocks 13 June 2002 AGM for 2008
Sir Nigel Essenhigh 4 March 2003 AGM for 2007
*Subject in each case to re-election as required by the company's Articles of Association and/or the Combined Code.
For non-executive Directors the company's policy is to have written terms of appointment, with initial appointments being for a three-year term,
and in all cases appointments being terminable at will. All non-executive Directors (other than Mr Turner) now have terms of appointment
expiring at an Annual General Meeting. Non-executive Directors are free to resign at any time. The written terms of appointment are available
for inspection at the company's registered office and at the company's Annual General Meeting. The expected time commitment of 
non-executive Directors is either set out in their current written terms of appointment (if they have recently been issued to them) or is known,
by experience, to the Directors concerned. 
Outside directorships
The company considers that it can often be of benefit to it if a Director, executive or non-executive, holds directorships in other companies
outside the group, provided that any such appointment does not conflict with the Director's duties to the company or with the group's best
interests. Before taking up any outside appointment after becoming a Director of the company, a Director must first seek the approval of the
Board. Any fees earned by a Director for his outside appointment are ordinarily retainable by him. Neither Mr Rogers nor Mr Tame have yet
been released by the company to work as non-executive Directors elsewhere. Mr Campbell is employed by the company in a part-time capacity
only and his earnings from any non-executive directorships in other companies held by him are earned in time not committed to the company.
This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Lord Hesketh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 May 2005
Remuneration report continued
30
Babcock International Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2005