 Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
64 www.baesyste  ms.com
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report
Members:
Sir Nigel Rudd (Chairman)
Roberto Quarta
Peter Weinberg
During the year, Professor Sue Birley served as a member and as
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until her retirement from
the Board on 9 May 2007. 
Responsibilities
- Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive
directors, members of the Executive Committee, the Company
Secretary and other senior executives.
- Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration
packages for the Chairman and executive directors.
- Agreeing the terms and conditions to be included in service
agreements for executive directors, including termination
payments.
- Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and 
any performance conditions to be used for such schemes.
- Determining any share scheme performance targets.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, 
which conform with the requirements of the Combined Code, 
can be found on the Company's website or can be obtained from 
the Company Secretary.
Governance
The Committee is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd and all of its members 
are independent non-executive directors. The Company's Chairman
and Chief Executive attend Committee meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed
and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. 
In 2007 the Committee met eight times and details of attendance 
at these meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance Report
on page 59. 
In August 2007 the Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its
Independent Adviser. The role of the Committee's Independent 
Adviser is to provide advice to the Committee and its individual
members on all aspects of the Committee's remit, and Kepler
Associates will not undertake any work for the Company whilst they
are retained as the Committee's Independent Adviser. Representatives
from Kepler Associates have attended each of the Committee
meetings since their appointment and will be in attendance at all
meetings unless specifically requested otherwise by the Committee. 
During the year the Committee also received material assistance 
and advice on remuneration policy from the Company's Human
Resources Director, Alastair Imrie, and the Human Resources Director,
Group Remuneration and Benefits, Graham Middleton. Dick Olver 
Remuneration Committee report
Sir Nigel Rudd
Remuneration Committee
Chairman
The Board has delegated authority for remuneration policy and
determining the specific packages for the Chairman and executive
directors to the Remuneration Committee, and has delegated 
authority to agree fees payable to the non-executive directors to 
the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee. The reports from 
both these Committees are incorporated into this Remuneration
report, together with a report on the remuneration or fees paid to
directors and the policy underpinning this.
The Remuneration report is structured as follows: 
- Remuneration Committee report
- Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee report
- Remuneration reporting
- Remuneration policy and service contracts for executive directors 
- Chairman's appointment, term and fees
- Non-executive directors' appointment, term and fees
- Tabular information on directors' shareholdings, emoluments,
pensions and share-based incentives Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 65
and Mike Turner, in their respective capacities as Chairman and 
Chief Executive, also provided advice that was of material assistance
to the Committee. 
Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters 
and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, who are both appointed by the
Company, and who also provided services to the Company during the
year. The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to it by
these firms were of a technical nature and did not create any conflict
of interest. If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the
Committee would appoint separate legal advisers from those used 
by the Company. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), who are appointed by the Company
and also provided services to the Company during the year, provided
detailed information on market trends and the competitive positioning
of packages. New Bridge Street Consulting, who are appointed by the
Committee, provided advice on long-term incentive plans and the total
shareholder return figures for assessing the performance condition
under the Performance Share Plan.
Activities
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has, during the year,
undertaken a thorough review of the Company's reward strategy. As a
result of that review, the Committee has agreed a number of changes
as set out in this report. In addition, the Committee has agreed the: 
- performance targets for the year and progress against those targets;
- operation of the long-term incentive plans and policy for executive
share scheme grants including the level of individual grants and
performance conditions; 
- policy for the operation of the all-employee share schemes; 
- award of bonuses based on the prior year's performance; 
- Chairman's fees for his second three-year term;
- base salary for the two new Chief Operating Officers in the light 
of their progress at the half year;
- discretionary elements of the executive share plans; 
- terms on which Steve Mogford and Chris Geoghegan left the
Company during the year; and
- terms on which Mike Turner will retire from the Company at the end
of August 2008. 
In addition, the Committee has also: 
- reviewed the Remuneration report; and 
- consulted with major shareholders over aspects of remuneration policy. 
The Company's remuneration strategy, policy and details of executive
remuneration are set out on pages 66 to 83 of this Remuneration report.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
Sir Nigel Rudd
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee report
Dick Olver
Non-Executive Directors'
Fees Committee
Chairman
Members:
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Philip Bramwell
Walt Havenstein
Mike Turner
Responsibilities
- Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors 
(excluding the Chairman) and making changes to such fees
as deemed appropriate.
Governance
The Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee has delegated authority
from the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive directors on 
its behalf. 
Activities 
The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by the
Committee when discharging its responsibilities: 
- fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the
necessary skills, experience and knowledge required to ensure that 
the Board is able to discharge its duties effectively; 
- in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of
time individual non-executive directors are required to devote to their
duties and also the scale and complexity and international nature of
the business and the responsibility involved; 
- fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and
shall not be performance-related; and 
- non-executive directors shall not participate in the Company's share-
based incentive schemes or pension scheme. 
The Committee held one meeting in 2007 attended by all members,
and met in January 2008. 
On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee
Dick Olver
Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee Chairman 
Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
66 www.baesyste  ms.com
In the second half of 2007, the Committee undertook a full review 
of the remuneration arrangements for executive directors to ensure
they remained appropriate and supported the Group strategy given 
the growth of the Group internationally and the increased focus on
excellence in Programme Management and through-life support. 
As a result of the review, the Committee has made a number of
changes to the arrangements for executive directors for 2008 as
detailed below. These changes will flow down to the 250 most senior
executives within the Group globally to create a consistent global
approach to reward. 
Following the announcement in October 2007 that the Chief
Executive, Mike Turner, would retire from the Company at the end of
August 2008 after 42 years with the Company, the Committee has
agreed a separate arrangement for him detailed on page 70.
Policy
- Base salary
- Annual bonus
- Long-term incentive plans
  Executive Share Option Scheme* 
  Performance Share Plan
  Share Matching Plan
- Pension provision
- Car/allowance
- Other benefits 
- Global all-employee incentive plan
* no further awards from 2008
Package
Remuneration strategy and policy for executive directors 
This section of the report explains the Company's remuneration strategy and policy, the individual components of executive directors'
remuneration and details of their service contracts as required by legislation. 
Remuneration strategy and 2007 review 
The Company's remuneration strategy, policy and package for executive directors is:
To provide a remuneration package that:
- helps to attract, retain and motivate 
- is aligned to shareholders' interests
- is competitive against the appropriate
market
- encourages and supports a high
performance culture
- is fair and transparent
- can be applied consistently throughout
the Group.
Strategy
Objectives of the review and summary
To drive creation of long-term value for shareholders
- Set base salary at median competitive
level
- Reward upper quartile performance with
upper quartile reward 
- Balance between: 
  short and long-term reward
  fixed and variable reward
  with balance becoming more long-term
and more highly geared with seniority
- Competitive package of benefits
Objective
Increase focus on sustainable 
long-term performance
Simplify package with more
transparent link between
performance and reward
Competitive package with 
increased reward for improved
performance
Incentivise increased share
ownership amongst executives 
To provide a remuneration package that:
- helps to attract, retain and motivate 
- is aligned to shareholders' interests
- is competitive against the appropriate
market
- encourages and supports a high-
performance culture
- is fair and transparent
- can be applied consistently throughout
the Group
Summary of changes made
- Increase to one-third the proportion of annual bonus driven off specific objectives 
- Part of the annual bonus to be specifically linked to performance on safety, ethics and diversity
- Compulsory deferral of at least one-quarter of annual bonus into the Share Matching Plan
- Increase proportion of package delivered through long-term incentives 
- Further extend eligibility of long-term incentive plans to cover the top 250 senior executives globally
- Replace share options by improved awards of performance shares 
- Increase focus on long-term Earnings per Share (EPS) as key driver of long-term performance
- Half the awards of performance shares to be based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and half on EPS
- Use actual growth in EPS rather than real growth in excess of UK inflation
- Improve Share Matching Plan to increase its weight in package
- Improved maximum bonus levels coupled with reduced payout for achieving the base financial targets
- Uniform match of 1:1 for 2008 awards under Share Matching Plan for all eligible executives
- Improved 2:1 match for 2009 awards under Share Matching Plan for improved performance
- Increased awards of performance shares where necessary to maintain competitive package
- All future awards of long-term incentives will be made over shares rather than options
- Compulsory deferral of part of the annual bonus into Share Matching Plan
- Extend eligibility of long-term incentives and improve award levels
- Extend Minimum Shareholding Requirement to all senior executives receiving long-term incentives  Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 67
practice, and also takes account of the performance of the individual, the
Company as a whole and the pay and conditions of Group employees. 
Base salary
As a result of the above review and, having taken account of the
competitive positioning, performance and general market trends, 
the Committee has increased the annual base salaries of executive
directors with effect from January 2008 as follows: 
Base salary at Base salary at Percentage
Executive director 31 December 2007 1 January 2008 increase
George Rose
Group Finance Director  560,000  592,500 5.8%
Ian King
1
Chief Operating Officer - 
UK/Rest of World  560,000  592,500 5.8%
Walt Havenstein
1
Chief Operating Officer -
US $850,000 $900,000 5.9%
1 The two Chief Operating Officers were new in post at the beginning of 2007. Following 
a half year review of performance in their new roles, the base salary of Ian King was
increased from  530,000 to  560,000, and that of Walt Havenstein was increased
from $750,000 to $850,000, with effect from 1 July 2007.
Annual bonus 
Structure: The annual bonus for 2008 has been restructured to
increase the focus on long-term performance and risk management
(both business risk and reputation risk). To further reinforce the
importance of key aspects of the Group's corporate responsibility
agenda, a specific part of the annual bonus will be based on driving
performance and improvement in ethics and safety. The structure of
the annual bonus for 2008 will be: 
Measure % of bonus
In-year financial performance 66% Down from 75%
Ethics and safety 12%
Up from 25%
Other objectives that support the 
Executive Committee's top ten objectives 22%
At present, executive directors can invest some or all of their net
annual bonus into the Share Matching Plan (SMP). To increase the
alignment between short-term and long-term reward, executive
directors will be required to invest at least one-quarter (one-third for
the Chief Operating Officer - US) of their net 2008 annual bonus into
the SMP when the bonus is paid in 2009. Further investment can be
made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum investment of half their
net bonus. 
Levels: To remain competitive and to increase the gearing to drive for
high performance, the maximum bonus levels have been increased 
to market median levels but the payout for achieving on-target
performance against the in-year financial targets has been reduced
from 50% to 40% of maximum. The table below summarises the
revised bonus structure and levels for the executive directors. 
Maximum bonus as UK executive directors US executive director
percentage of salary Current New Current New
In-year financial 
performance 75% 83% 112.5% 150%
Ethics and safety 15% 27%
Other objectives 25% 37.5%
supporting 
the Group strategy 27% 48%
Total 100% 125% 150% 225%
Bonus compulsorily 
invested into SMP - 31.25% - 75%
Maximum bonus 
payable in cash 100% 93.75% 150% 150%
The Committee's executive remuneration policy continues to be 
to set base salaries at median competitive levels, taking into account
performance and experience in role, whilst seeking to reward upper
quartile performance with potential upper quartile remuneration
through the focused use of bonus schemes and share-based
incentives. The Committee believes that the above changes and
improvements to the incentive packages will:
- bring the remuneration packages into line with market 
competitive levels;
- simplify the arrangements to improve line-of-sight between
performance and reward;
- shift the focus towards long-term sustainable growth in EPS;
- reinforce the key aspects of the Group's corporate responsibility
agenda; 
- directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory
deferral of part of the bonus into the Share Matching Plan for all
executive directors; and
- increase the gearing to drive for high performance as most of 
the improvement in package is only delivered for achieving more
stretching targets.
The Committee intends to continue with the executive remuneration
policy as detailed in this report in 2008 and subsequent years, 
and will continue to consult on material changes with principal
shareholders. The principles of the remuneration strategy are applied
consistently across the Group, taking account of seniority and local
market practice.
The following sections describe the changes made in more detail 
and the specific arrangements for executive directors.
Approach to the review
The review not only considered the Company's executive remuneration
packages against the market but also the Company's performance 
to date, its strategy for the next five years and the views of the
Committee members and senior executives.
Information on the market for comparable management positions 
was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as 
to where to position the various elements of the package relative 
to comparable companies. 
The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator
groups for the individual positions, taking account of company size,
scale of operations and breadth of role. The comparator group for 
the UK executive directors comprised 25 of the FTSE 50 companies
(excluding financials and retail) with market capitalisation nearest 
to that of BAE Systems (12 larger and 13 smaller). The Committee
believes that the change from a comparator group based on turnover
(as used last year) to one based on market capitalisation creates
better alignment between the value placed on the Company and 
the value placed on the executives who manage it. 
For the US Chief Operating Officer, regression analysis was used on 
US aerospace, defence and general industry sector data to produce
appropriate market figures consistent with the size and scale of the
US business, adjusting where necessary to reflect the extra responsibility
for his plc board role. 
The base salary, total cash reward (base salary plus annual bonus),
total direct reward (total cash reward plus long-term incentives) 
and total reward (total direct reward plus pension) were analysed 
at the median and upper quartile for the relevant posts in the
comparator group companies. This gives the Committee a view 
on the competitiveness of the individual elements of the package 
as well as the package as a whole. 
The Committee also reviewed the trends in the elements of remuneration
to ensure that the structure of the package stays in line with market Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
68 www.baesyste  ms.com
- Share options
Details of the current Executive Share Option Plan are set out on 
page 79. No further grants of share options will be made, except in
exceptional circumstances. 
- Performance Share Plan (PSP)
A detailed explanation of the PSP is contained on page 71. The
Committee believes that the PSP offers better value for money than
share options as executives generally place a higher value on such
plans than share options, and they require fewer shares to deliver the
same value, thus reducing the dilutive effect of executive share-based
reward. Following the decision not to award further grants of share
options, the Committee has made a number of changes to the PSP . 
In line with current corporate governance guidelines, shares awarded
under the PSP will attract dividends prior to vesting. The additional
value of these dividends has been taken into account in assessing 
the overall value of awards to be granted. 
To further increase the proportion of the package driven off long-term
EPS growth, half the PSP awards will be based on the current TSR
performance condition and vesting scale, with the other half based 
on EPS growth. 
The EPS performance condition will be based on annual EPS growth,
with no vesting at 5% pa growth, increasing on a straight line basis 
to full vesting at 11% pa growth. 
To remain competitive and to replace the value of previous share
option grants, the award levels for 2008 will be:
- 200% of base salary for the UK executive directors (split 100% 
of salary on PSP
TSR
and 100% of salary on PSP
EPS
); and 
- 250% of base salary for the US executive director (split 125% 
of salary on PSP
TSR
and 125% of salary on PSP
EPS
). 
The PSP was approved by shareholders in May 2006. At that time 
it was agreed that the Committee should have the flexibility for
executives below Board level to base up to half of any award on
appropriately stretching internal measures, with the rest based on 
TSR as at present. In addition, the maximum award under the PSP 
was limited to two times base salary. Shareholder approval will be
sought at the May 2008 AGM to base half the PSP award for executive
directors on appropriately stretching internal measures, which will be
EPS for awards in 2008, and to increase the maximum award level
under the PSP to four times base salary. Whilst it is not envisaged that
awards at this level will be necessary, it does allow the Committee the
flexibility in future should special circumstances arise. Naturally
shareholders will be consulted on any significant changes to the
normal award levels. 
It is proposed that executive directors will receive the 2008 award 
of PSP
TSR
in the normal cycle, ie shortly after the Company's annual
results. The 2008 award of PSP
EPS
will be made shortly after the May
2008 AGM, but with a slightly reduced vesting period (eg two years
and ten months rather than the normal three years) so that both
awards vest at the same time. 
The financial targets, both base and stretch, are derived from the
Integrated Business Plan (IBP), which is agreed by the Board and
which implements corporate strategy on a group-wide basis by
ensuring that business plans which support the strategy are
integrated across all businesses. In determining the in-year financial
performance measures, the view was taken that the Company's major
investors believe EPS and cash targets (and, where appropriate,
EBITA
1
) to be key indicators of long-term financial performance and
value creation. 
The Executive Committee top ten objectives are agreed by the Board
each year as those key to delivering the Group's strategy. These are
set out on page 11 and used as the basis to set the individual
objectives for the executive directors which are agreed by the
Chairman and the Committee. These then flow down to members of
the Executive Committee and the senior leadership team to ensure
that all businesses within the Group are aligned with the overall Group
strategy. The annual bonus targets set by the Committee for the
executive directors, which the Committee believes are stretching 
but achievable, are summarised in the table below.
Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs) 
To simplify the LTIPs and increase the line of sight between the
executive's reward and performance, no further awards of share
options will be made (except in exceptional circumstances, eg to
secure a new hire in a competitive situation). Instead, the awards of
performance shares will be increased and half the award will be based
on an EPS performance condition with the other half based on TSR. 
At present, the LTIP arrangements that use EPS growth (ie share
options and the Share Matching Plan for executive directors) use real
growth in EPS in excess of UK inflation and have stepped vesting with
one-third vesting at real annual growth of 3%, jumping to two-thirds
vesting at 4% pa and full vesting at 5% pa. From 2008, where EPS 
is used as a measure in LTIPs, actual (ie nominal) rather than  real'
EPS growth will be used, with a straight line vesting scale to avoid
stepped vesting. 
- Share Matching Plan (SMP) 
The SMP is seen as a key part of the long-term incentive package,
directly linking short-term reward with long-term reward. A more
detailed explanation of the SMP is contained on page 72. For awards
in 2008 in respect of the 2007 annual bonus, none of the matching
shares will vest unless the annual EPS growth over the three-year
performance period exceeds 5% pa, increasing uniformly from no
match to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
For 2009 awards in respect of the 2008 annual bonus, the matching
scale will be extended on a uniform basis to provide a 2:1 match for
annual EPS growth of 11% pa. However, executive directors will only be
able to invest a maximum of half their net annual bonus into the SMP . 
The increase in match from 1:1 to 2:1 for increased performance, to
be applied in 2009, will require formal shareholder approval which will
be sought at the May 2008 AGM.
Annual bonus as a percentage of base salary for 2008 George Rose Ian King Walt Havenstein
Base Stretch Base Stretch Base Stretch
Measure target target target target target target
Group EPS 16.6% 41.5% 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5%
Group cash 16.6% 41.5% 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5%
Business EBITA
1
- - 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5%
Business cash - - 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5%
Ethics and safety Up to 15% Up to 15% Up to 27%
Other objectives supporting the Group's strategy Up to 27% Up to 27% Up to 48%
If performance is between the base and stretch targets, the bonus is pro-rated on a straight line basis
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and
taxation expense  Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 69
Pension provision 
Following the changes made recently in the UK in response to
pensions simplification legislation (as reported last year), and in the
US to increase the pay averaging period for existing executives to ten
years by 2015, no further changes to the pension arrangements for
executive directors are required.
Fixed and performance-related reward
At on-target performance, more than half the package (two-thirds 
for the US executive director) is performance related, rising to over
three-quarters for the UK executive directors and over 85% for the 
US director at stretch performance. This is shown in the chart below. 
Total value of incentives
In making the above changes to the package, the Company has been
mindful of the impact on the overall value of the package. Using
assumptions consistent with those underlying the value placed on
LTIPs in the Company's accounts, and assuming executive directors
invest half their net bonus into the SMP , the table below summarises
the proposals and compares  expected' value of the total direct reward
(base salary plus bonus plus long-term incentives) before and after the
changes. As the improvements in the annual bonus levels for 2008
will not feed into the SMP until 2009, and the extension of the SMP
match will not be introduced until 2009, the expected values of the
incentive package delivered in both 2008 and 2009 are shown.
The charts below show the key drivers of performance and their
influence on the incentive package. 
Performance drivers of incentive package
Base salary  Pension  Cash bonus  Deferred bonus  SMP  PSP
Proportion of package value delivered through fixed 
and performance-related reward
UK executive 
directors
US executive 
director
Stretch
Performance
On-Target
Performance
Stretch
Performance
On-Target
Performance
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Proportion of overall package
Total value of incentives as a percentage of salary
UK executive directors US executive director
Current New Current New
Annual bonus
On-target 54% 61% 81% 110%
Maximum 100% 125% 150% 225%
Share Matching Plan
Match
1
/ 3:1 - 1:1 0 - 2:1
1
/ 3:1 - 1:1 0 - 2:1
EPS growth target (% pa) Real growth Actual growth Real growth Actual growth
of 3% - 8% of 5% - 11% of 3% - 8% of 5% - 11%
Share option grant
Award (% of salary) 150% - 150% -
PSP grant on TSR
Award (% of salary) 100% 100% 100% 125%
TSR vesting   at median,   at median,   at median,   at median,
All at top 20% All at top 20% All at top 20% All at top 20%
PSP grant on EPS
Award (% of salary) - 100% - 125%
EPS growth target (% pa) - Nil at 5%, - Nil at 5%, 
all at 11% all at 11%
Expected value of total direct 
reward as a percentage of salary
2007 258% 293%
2008 282% 366%
2009 298% 400%
In-year measures  Long-term EPS  Relative TSR  Share price
UK executive 
directors
US executive 
director
Stretch
Performance
On-Target
Performance
Stretch
Performance
On-Target
Performance
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Proportion of incentive package Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
70 www.baesyste  ms.com
Arrangements for the Chief Executive 
On 16 October 2007, the Company announced that Mike Turner, the
Chief Executive, will retire at the end of August 2008. The Committee
agreed a 5.8% salary increase from 1 January 2008, taking account 
of his performance and the competitive positioning. This increases his
annual base salary from  945,000 to  1,000,000. He will be eligible 
to participate in an annual bonus plan for 2008, with a maximum bonus
unchanged at 150% of base salary, and with the following targets:
Annual bonus as percentage of base salary Mike Turner
Base Stretch
Measure target target
Group EPS 20% 50%
Group cash 20% 50%
Ethics and safety Up to 18%
Other objectives supporting the Group's strategy Up to 32%
If performance is between the base and stretch targets, the bonus is pro-rated.
He will be eligible to invest up to one-third of his 2007 net annual
bonus into the Share Matching Plan but will not be eligible to invest
any of his 2008 annual bonus. 
He will not be eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan 
for the 2008 financial year. Instead, the Committee has implemented
a tailored incentive arrangement for the period prior to his retirement
as announced to shareholders on 16 October 2007.
On 16 October 2007, Mike Turner was granted a performance-related
conditional award over 231,618 ordinary shares ( Share Award'). The
number of ordinary shares under the Share Award was calculated as
 1,181,250 (being 1.25 times his base salary at that time) divided 
by 510p, being the market value of an ordinary share averaged over
the three business days ending 15 October 2007. 
The Share Award will vest subject to the satisfaction of certain
performance targets, which the Committee will assess as at 31
August 2008. These targets relate to: continuing the successful
implementation of the Company's business strategy; satisfaction 
of leadership objectives set by the Committee; achieving an orderly
handover of key external relationships; and facilitating an orderly
succession to the Chief Executive role. Any ordinary shares which 
vest will be released in two equal tranches over the year following 
his retirement. The Share Award will be satisfied by way of a transfer
of existing ordinary shares from the Company's employee trust.
In tandem with the Share Award, he was granted a conditional cash award
of  1,181,250. This will be subject to the same performance targets, and
will vest and be released on the same basis, as set out above. 
The Committee was satisfied that these awards were the most
appropriate incentive for Mike Turner in relation to his remaining 
period of service and these targets are consistent with the Company's
strategy of giving emphasis to non-financial objectives in order to
foster a performance culture within the Company.
As this was a special arrangement to facilitate Mike Turner's retention
and incentivisation, shareholder approval was not required under the
Listing Rules. Any benefits under this arrangement will not be
pensionable.
Performance in 2007
The structure of the 2007 Annual Bonus Plan was set out in last
year's Remuneration report. 
2007 was another very successful year, building on the excellent
performances in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Apart from the Australian
business, all the major business groupings achieved their stretch
targets on profit and cash. As a result, all the financial targets within
the 2007 Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors were met at the
stretch level apart from that part of Chris Geoghegan's bonus linked 
to the profit performance of his group of businesses. In addition,
excellent progress was made against most of the key non-financial
objectives as set out on page 26 and, accordingly, bonus payments 
for 2007, which are set out in Table F on page 82, range from 83.9%
to 97% of the maximum bonus for the executive directors who served
throughout 2007.
In addition, the real growth in EPS over the three years to 2007
exceeded 5% pa so that the awards of share options granted in 
2005 vest in full.
The Company's total shareholder return for awards of shares made 
in March 2005 under the Performance Share Plan exceeded the upper
quintile position when compared against the comparator group of 18
other defence and aerospace companies. The Committee has
satisfied itself that there has been a sustainable improvement in the
underlying performance of the Group over the three-year performance
period and so this award has vested in full.
This graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows the value by 31 December 2007, on 
a total shareholder return basis, of  100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December
2002 compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a
broad equity market index. As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100,
it was deemed to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment 
in BAE Systems over recent years as compared to (i) the FTSE 100 Index; (ii) the
companies forming the sectoral peer group for the BAE Systems Performance Share
Plan; and (iii) the companies forming the comparator group for the 2007 executive 
pay review. The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the
end of 2007 of a single  100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last
five years.
Value at 31 December 2007 of  100 investment 
at 31 December 2002
BAE Systems
FTSE 100
 100
 200
 300
 400
 500
31 Dec 07 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 02
Value at 31 December 2007 of  100 investment
BAE Systems Aerospace & defence comparator group
FTSE 100 UK executive director pay review comparator group
 0
 125
 250
 375
 500
07 06 05 04 03 Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 71
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Key features for PSP awards in 2008:
- half the PSP award will be based on a Total Shareholder Return
performance condition (PSP
TSR
) and the other half on an Earnings
per Share (PSP
EPS
)* performance condition; and
- length of period for performance condition: three years* with any
shares vesting paid out in three equal tranches on vesting at the
end of years three, four and five.
* The PSP
EPS
award for executive directors is subject to shareholder approval at the May
2008 AGM and, subject to that approval, will have a slightly shorter vesting period so
that it vests at the same time as the 2008 PSP
TSR 
award. 
- Shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
Performance Condition - PSP
EPS
- Proportion of the award capable of exercise: determined by the 
rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance
period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less
and 100% vesting at 11% growth as set out below:
- Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider 
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and
value creation.
Performance Condition - PSP
TSR
- Proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by:
(i) the Company's TSR (share price growth plus dividends) ranking
relative to a comparator group of 18 other international
defence and aerospace companies (see table below): 
PSP
TSR 
- sectoral peer group
Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon
Cobham GKN Rockwell Collins
Dassault Aviation Goodrich Rolls-Royce
EADS Honeywell International Smiths Group
Embraer PN Lockheed Martin Thales
Finmeccanica Northrop Grumman United Technologies
- nil vesting if the Company's TSR is outside the top 50% 
of TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group and 
100% vesting if it is in the top quintile (ie top 20%) as set 
out below:
and
(ii) whether there has been a sustained improvement in the
Company's underlying financial performance and whether it is
appropriate to release some or all of the awards. In taking such 
a view, the Committee may consider (but not exclusively) the
following financial metrics: net cash/debt; EBITA; order book;
turnover; risk and underlying project performance.
- Rationale for performance measures: importance to major
investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth
relative to other major companies in the same sector and to
ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement
in the Company's performance over the relevant period. 
The graph above summarises the position for all outstanding
awards under the PSP as at 31 December 2007. The coloured box
shows the range of TSR required for 25% vesting to full vesting,
and the square shows BAE Systems' TSR.
Plan provisions 
Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2008 are
detailed below. Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2008 are detailed on pages 77 and 78.
Summary of long-term incentive plans
How the PSP operates
% of total 
award vesting
80 60 70 100 90 40 50 20 10 30 0
Performance relative to comparator group (percentile)
0
25
50
75
100
% of total 
award vesting
8 6 7 10 11 9 45 2 13 0
Annual actual EPS growth (%)
0
25
50
75
100
Performance of outstanding PSP awards
PSP
Award
PSP award
paid in
shares
(amount
varying in
accordance
with
performance
achieved)
One-third available
immediately at the
end of year three
The second third
available at the
end of year four
The final third
available at
the end of
year five
50% of award based on
TSR growth relative to 
a sectoral comparator
group of companies
over the three-year
performance period,
subject to a secondary
financial measure
50% of award 
based on actual 
annual EPS growth 
over the three-year
performance period
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7
For the US executives, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three,
four and five, subject to the performance condition achieved.
30 Mar 07 12 Apr 06 22 Dec 05 24 Mar 05 
(Vested in full Mar 08)
0
35
70
105
140
% of Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
72 www.baesyste  ms.com
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
During 2007 the UK executive directors were eligible to participate in
the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive Plan. As 
a result of the Company's performance in 2007, all eligible employees
(including the UK executive directors) will be entitled to receive shares
worth  436. A similar arrangement operates for non-UK employees on 
a cash or shares basis depending on local tax and security laws. 
The Company operates a share purchase arrangement (Partnership
Shares) under the Share Incentive Plan which replaced the SAYE Share
Option Scheme in 2005. Under this arrangement, UK-based employees
(including executive directors) may purchase ordinary shares in
BAE Systems by either monthly investments of between  10 and
 125 a month, or lump sum investments of between  10 and  1,500
in a tax year, both limited to 10% of salary if less. The Partnership
Shares attract Matching Shares. As the plan is an all-employee plan,
the Matching Shares are not subject to performance conditions in
accordance with legislation. Prior to August 2007, one free Matching
Share was awarded for every two Partnership Shares purchased by the
employee, up to a maximum monthly Partnership Share investment of
 30. From August 2007, one free matching share is awarded for each
Partnership Share up to a maximum of  63 per month. 
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive Plan 
for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
Dilution of share capital
The Committee has agreed that, in respect of new issue or treasury
shares, shares representing no more than 1% of the Company's
issued share capital will be used in any one financial year for the 
grant of share options under all employee share schemes. The table
below sets out the available dilution capacity for the Company's
employee share schemes based on the limits set out in the rules 
of those schemes. 
2007
Total issued share capital as at 31 December 2007 3,574m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive 10 years 357.4m
Remaining headroom 245.0m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive 10 years 178.7m
Remaining headroom 111.7m
The number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2007 was
3,574,509,017 and the number of shares granted under option during
2007 totalled 6,160,572 (0.17% of the total shares in issue). With the
changes in remuneration policy as set out above, the Company intends
to use new issue shares to satisfy future share awards under the
executive long-term incentive plans within the 0.5% annual dilution limit.
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors are
required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding
equal to 200% of base salary. As a minimum, a holding equal to 100%
of base salary must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares
vesting or options exercised through the executive share option
schemes or long-term incentive schemes, by using 50% of the shares
that vest or 50% of the options which are exercised on each occasion.
Thereafter, executive directors are required to increase their personal
shareholding gradually, on each occasion using 25% of the shares 
that vest or 25% of the options exercised each year, until a personal
shareholding equal to 200% of annual base salary is achieved and
maintained. These limits are reviewed periodically. A similar
arrangement applies to senior executives eligible for share-based 
long-term incentives with limits aligned to the levels of awards made
under these plans. 
Details of the directors' personal shareholdings are shown in Table A
on page 76. 
Post-retirement benefits
UK pension benefits
As a result of the age discrimination legislation introduced in 2006,
UK executive directors' default retirement age will be 65 but they will
retain any previous rights they had to retire and draw their pensions
without actuarial reduction for early payment at an earlier age. 
Following the consultations with employees in 2005, a number of
changes were made to the pension schemes in respect of benefits
accruing from 6 April 2006 as a means of funding the deficits
disclosed in the schemes. These changes applied to executive
directors in the same way as to other employees and included the
introduction of the Longevity Adjustment Factor, a reduction in the
maximum level of pension increases and a change in the definition 
of Pensionable Pay. 
The UK-based executive directors with the exception of Ian King (see
below) are members of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme (the Main
Scheme) and the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme (the ExPS).
The ExPS tops up the benefits from the Main Scheme and, for
executive directors, is designed to produce a target pension payable
from age 60 of two-thirds of Final Pensionable Pay (FPP) if potential
service is 20 or more years. FPP is defined as base salary averaged
over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service
Share Matching Plan (SMP)
Key features for grants of awards in 2008 and 2009:
- stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked 
to the bonus awarded under the Annual Bonus Plan;
- participants are granted a conditional award of Matching Shares
against the gross value of the bonus invested; and
- Matching Shares attract dividends during the three-year deferral
period, released on vesting of any Matching Shares. 
- 2008 awards:
- the executive directors will be invited to acquire shares
(Investment Shares) by deferring part or all of their 2007 
net annual bonus into the SMP; and
- match and performance condition: nil match for actual EPS
growth of 5% pa or less, increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match 
for 8% pa growth.
- 2009 awards:
- the UK-based executive directors are required to invest one
quarter of their 2008 net bonus into the SMP and the US-based
executive director one-third;
- maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net annual
bonus; and
- match and performance condition: the match will be extended
from a 1:1 match at 8% pa actual EPS growth, increasing
uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth*.
- rationale for performance measure: major investors consider 
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and
value creation.
* the increase in the match in 2009 is subject to shareholder approval at the May 2008 AGM
Annual EPS growth %
Match
0
1:1
2:1
11 8 5 0
Annual EPS growth %
Match
0
1:1
2:1
11 8 5 0
Performance condition: SMP 2008 Performance condition: SMP 2009 Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 73
accrued to 5 April 2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect 
of service from 6 April 2006. These schemes also provide a lump 
sum death-in-service benefit equal to four times base salary at date 
of death, and a spouse's death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds
of the prospective pension at normal retirement age. Children's
allowances are also payable, usually up to the age of 18. Spouses'
pensions and children's allowances are also payable upon death in
retirement and death after leaving the Company's employment with a
deferred pension. Pensions are increased annually by the rise in the
Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum increase of 5% per year in
respect of pre 6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year in respect of
service from 6 April 2006. Directors pay contributions at the same
rate as all other employees participating in schemes. 
Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan (the
2000 Plan), applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic
Systems (MES), and a member of the ExPS. The 2000 Plan provides 
a pension of 1/50th of Final Pensionable Earnings (FPE) for each year
of pensionable service, payable from a normal retirement age of 65.
FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best three-year average of base salary
and bonus in the ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an offset for
State pensions. The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable
bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006/07 Plan Year to 20% of base
salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007/08 Plan Year and
thereafter. However, there is a guarantee that the FPE figure for
benefits service prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE
figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees do not lose the
benefit of contributions paid on past bonuses. Ian King joined the
ExPS in 1999 following the BAe/MES merger. The ExPS tops up the
2000 Plan benefits to provide a target benefit payable from age 62 
of 1/30th of Final Pensionable Pay for each year of ExPS pensionable
service (subject to a maximum of two-thirds). Final Pensionable Pay for
the purposes of this top up is calculated by reference to base salary
only, averaged over 12 months and 36 months as described above.
Therefore Ian King's total pension is the sum of his 2000 Plan
benefits plus the top up from the ExPS. 
Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions
Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006, 
UK executives reaching the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) are given a
number of choices as previously reported. These are: 
- remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax charge; or 
- opt out of the pension scheme (and so earn no further pension
benefits in respect of future service) and instead receive a taxable
salary supplement. This supplement will be 30% of salary and 20%
of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary target
after at least 20 years and 30 years service respectively; or
- restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the remainder
being provided directly from the Company as an unfunded promise.
At retirement, the unfunded Company benefits can be either taken
as pension or can be commuted in full for a taxable lump sum. 
The Committee reviewed these arrangements in 2007 in the light 
of developing market practice and believes they remain appropriate 
as they provide executives with choices which may better suit their
needs whilst being broadly cost neutral to the Company, are in line
with market practice and do not compensate executives for changes 
in taxation. 
UK executives, including the UK executive directors, affected or likely
to be affected by the LTA before April 2009 were provided with
independent financial advice paid for by the Company. Mike Turner and
Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of the pension schemes in April
2006 in return for a cash supplement of 30% of base salary. Ian King
and Steve Mogford elected to have their scheme benefits restricted in
return for a Company unfunded promise. 
George Rose was affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue
earnings cap on approved pensions and has an unapproved (ie non-tax
qualified) pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved
schemes. This was designed so that the total pension from all sources
would be broadly in line with the pension he would have received from
the Group pension schemes had he not been subject to the earnings
cap. The Pension Simplification tax changes allowed the flexibility to
remove the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of service from
April 2006, although some of his benefits will remain to be provided 
by means of an unfunded promise from the Company. No further
contributions will be paid into his funded unapproved top up
arrangement. Further information on the amounts paid by the Company
in respect of these arrangements is included in the notes to Table G
on page 83. 
US pension benefits
Walt Havenstein is a member of the BAE Systems Employees'
Retirement Plan which provides a pension from age 60 for each year
of pensionable service of 1.25% on his Final Average Pay (FAP) up to
Social Security Covered Compensation (circa $70,000) plus 1.5% on
his FAP in excess of Social Security Covered Compensation. FAP is
currently the highest three-year average of base salary plus bonus 
but the averaging period will increase by one year each year beginning
in 2009 and reaching a ten-year average in 2015. Directors pay
contributions at the same rates as other employees in the plan. The
pension does not carry any spouse's pension or pension increases.
Walt Havenstein also receives a 50% match on his contributions 
to his 401(k) plan up to a maximum contribution of 8% of earnings. 
Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive directors
who served during 2007 are shown in Table G on page 83 and are
calculated in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A of the
Companies Act 1985. 
Other benefits 
Other benefits provided to the executive directors include a car
allowance, the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur and 
a cash allowance for medical examination.
The two Chief Operating Officers (COOs) were new in post in 2007. 
In view of the requirement for the COO - US role to be based in the
Washington DC area, Walt Havenstein's package includes relocation
expenses in line with the Company's standard US policy. As the 
COO - UK/Rest of World is now required to spend increasing amounts
of time in central London, the Committee has also agreed to provide
Ian King with a second home allowance.
Executive directors' service contracts 
It is the Committee's policy that executive directors should normally
have service contracts that provide for the Company to give the
individual 12 months' notice of termination. This policy has been
chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need 
to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the
liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
The executive directors have service contracts with Group companies
and details of these are as follows: 
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Walt Havenstein 1 December 2006 3 months 3 months 
either party
Ian King 31 January 2007 12 months 12 months 
either party
George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from
(amended: the Company,
3 December 1999 6 months from 
15 January 2004 the individual
and 17 October 2005)
In the event of the termination of an executive director's contract 
it is the Committee's policy to seek to limit any payment made in 
lieu of notice to a payment equal to the amount of one year's base 
salary. The service contracts for all of the executive directors contain
specific provisions to the effect that the Company has the right, and 
in Walt Havenstein's case, generally has the obligation, to pay a sum Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
74 www.baesyste  ms.com
The Committee was satisfied that these arrangements were
appropriate for the purpose of ensuring that Mike Turner remains 
fully committed to the Company and fully incentivised in relation 
to share price and EPS performance until the vesting date of these
options and awards. The Committee also considered that these
arrangements, and the special incentive described on page 70,
constituted an optimal incentive structure for Mike Turner's 
remaining period of service. 
Other executive directors
Steve Mogford, who retired as a director on 9 May 2007, had a 
service contract dated 6 April 2000 (as amended 15 January 2004 
and 28 October 2005). Chris Geoghegan, who retired as a director 
on 31 December 2007, had a service contract dated 10 July 2002 
(as amended 15 January 2004 and 13 October 2005). On leaving the
Company, both were entitled to a payment of 12 months' base salary 
in lieu of notice as set out in their contracts. Both waived their rights 
to these payments in return for the same amounts being paid into the
Executive Pension Scheme (ExPS) and matched by equivalent payments
from the Company. Their pension benefits were augmented by
purchasing additional benefits under the ExPS in accordance with the
scheme's normal augmentation factors. Further details are provided in
Table G on page 83.
Policy on external board appointments
The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold external
non-BAE Systems related non-executive directorships with the prior
approval of the Committee will continue. The Committee considers
that external directorships provide the Company's senior executives
with valuable experience that is of benefit to BAE Systems. It is also
considered appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to the pool of
non-executive expertise available for the benefit of the wider business
community, thereby reciprocating the benefit that it in turn has
received from other organisations which have permitted members 
of their senior management teams to serve on the BAE Systems
Board. The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual
executive director to retain any fees received from such appointments
given the additional personal responsibility that this entails. Such fees
retained by the executive directors in 2007 for the period in which they
served on the BAE Systems Board were as follows: Chris Geoghegan
 14,542; Ian King  27,000; Steve Mogford  14,027; George Rose
 79,000; and Mike Turner  38,722 plus grants of Deferred Stock
Units to the value of  49,460.
equivalent to 12 months' salary (plus the continuation of 18 months'
medical benefits in Walt Havenstein's case) in the event of the
Company terminating their contracts for reasons other than gross
misconduct. No executive director has provisions in his service
contract that relate to a change of control of the Company (and neither
does the Chairman nor the non-executive directors in their respective
letters of appointment). 
Retirement arrangements for Mike Turner
Mike Turner is employed under a service contract dated 22 February
1994 (amended 30 May 1995, 3 December 1999, 8 May 2002,
15 January 2004 and 14 October 2005). It was announced on
16 October 2007 that Mike Turner would be stepping down at the end
of August 2008. Under a termination agreement, he will at that time
become entitled to a termination payment of  236,884 in respect 
of his contractual and statutory rights relating to the unserved portion
of his 12-month notice period to 16 October 2008, together with any
payment due in respect of his 2008 annual bonus. 
As a result of the pension tax changes which came into force on
6 April 2006, Mike Turner opted out of further accrual of pension 
with effect from that date in return for a cash supplement of 30% 
of salary. His pension on retirement will be calculated in accordance
with the rules of the relevant plans by reference to his Pensionable
Service to 6 April 2006 and Final Pensionable Pay at retirement. 
Mike Turner will not be entitled to participate in the Company's
Performance Share Plan for 2008 but, as announced on 16 October
2007, has been granted a performance-related conditional award as
described on page 70.
In accordance with the termination agreement and the rules of the
relevant plans, his existing options and awards will be treated as
follows on retirement:
- unexercised options under the Executive Share Option Plan will be
preserved, and may be exercised in full within 12 months after his
retirement. Any performance condition in relation to those options
that remains to be satisfied will be waived; 
- PSP awards that have already vested (that is, awards granted in
2005 and earlier years) will be preserved, and may be exercised
within six months of retirement; 
- for unvested PSP awards (that is, awards granted in 2006 and
2007), the performance conditions will be tested (at Mike Turner's
election) either at retirement or at the end of the normal three-year
performance periods. Such awards will vest to the extent that the
performance conditions have been satisfied, and may be exercised
within six months. The number of shares which vest will not be time
prorated to reflect his actual service during the applicable three-year
periods; and
- for the unvested matching award under the SMP granted in 2007 
(in respect of Mike Turner's 2006 annual bonus) and any matching
award granted in 2008 should he elect to invest up to one-third of
his 2007 annual bonus into the SMP , the performance conditions 
will be tested at his election either at retirement or at the end of the
normal three-year performance periods. The awards will vest to the
extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and will
not be time prorated. His linked investment shares will be released
at the same time the matching shares vest. Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 75
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do 
have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
The dates of their original appointment were as follows:
Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term*
Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2008
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2009
Andy Inglis 13.06.2007 12.06.2010
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2009
Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2008
Sir Nigel Rudd 10.09.2006 09.09.2009
Peter Weinberg 16.06.2005 15.06.2008
* Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals
of no more than three years in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two consecutive
three-year terms subject to review after the end of the first three-year
period and with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous
review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh the
Board. They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no
obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates. They
are subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and
subsequently at intervals of no more than three years. Sue Birley retired
from the Board on 9 May 2007 at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM,
having originally been appointed to the Board on 22 November 2000,
and Ulrich Cartellieri retired from the Board on 26 September 2007,
having originally been appointed to the Board on 1 December 1999. 
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors detail the
amount of time it is anticipated that the individual will need to devote
to his or her duties as a director. Non-executive directors are proposed
by the Nominations Committee and are appointed by the Board on 
the basis of their experience to provide independent judgement on
issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The level of their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors' Fees
Committee to reflect the time commitment required of the director 
and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies. The fee
level for the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, and
Remuneration Committees, and for the Senior Independent Director,
reflects their additional responsibilities and workload. 
Non-executive director 2007 fee* 2008 fee*
Chairman Audit Committee  77,500  83,000
Senior Independent Director  72,500  78,000
Chairman Remuneration Committee  72,500  78,000
Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee  72,500  78,000
Other non-executive directors  57,500  63,000
* In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of  4,000 per meeting is paid to
European-based non-executive directors attending meetings in the US and US-based 
non-executive directors attending meetings in Europe.
By order of the Board 
Dick Olver 
Chairman
20 February 2008 
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004. His appointment 
was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from 17 May 2004 
(the date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director)
and was extended by the Board in 2007, on the recommendation of the
Nominations Committee (as chaired by Sir Peter Mason, the Senior
Independent Director), for a second term of three years to 16 May 2010
unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Company' s Articles of
Association, or by either party giving the other not less than six months'
prior written notice. His appointment is documented in a letter of
appointment which is not a contract of employment and he is required 
to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman. His
appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a
director of the Company. His fee for the second three-year term, which has
been set by the Committee at  600,000 per annum, will not be subject to
review during the three-year term. 
Chairman's appointment, term and fees Non-executive directors' appointment, term 
and fees  Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
76 www.baesyste  ms.com 76 www.baesyste  ms.com
Table A
The table below gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons for those
individuals who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2007. There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors
listed in the table below between 31 December 2007 and 20 February 2008 with the exception of the interests in ordinary shares of Ian King and
George Rose who have each acquired an additional 77 ordinary shares since 31 December 2007 under the partnership and matching shares
elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that their beneficial shareholdings at the date of this report stood at 317,974 and 538,109 respectively.
Directors' interests 
As at 1 January 2007*
Share Performance 
Ordinary Restricted Matching Performance Share
shares Options Share Plan Plan Share Plan Award
P J Carroll
1
----- -
C V Geoghegan
2
143,150 1,411,363 42,764 - 722,231 -
M J Hartnall 20,000 - - - - -
W P Havenstein
3
37,484 466,586 10,249 - 278,788 -
A G Inglis
4
----- -
I G King
5
164,002 1,186,815 75,627 - 638,707 -
Sir Peter Mason 25,283 - - - - -
R L Olver 40,000 - - - - -
R Quarta - - - - - -
G W Rose 354,950 1,660,221 33,971 - 803,817 -
Sir Nigel Rudd - - - - - -
M J Turner 435,880 2,446,712 137,924 - 1,363,562 -
P A Weinberg - - - - - -
As at 31 December 2007
Share Performance 
Ordinary Restricted Matching Performance Share
shares Options Share Plan Plan Share Plan Award
P J Carroll
1
12,000 ---- -
C V Geoghegan
2
199,304 1,362,269 22,770 - 681,305 -
M J Hartnall 20,000 ---- -
W P Havenstein
3
72,328 327,640 10,249 18,947 303,607 -
A G Inglis
4
----- -
I G King 
5
317,897 1,270,250 37,950 46,410 552,675 -
Sir Peter Mason 25,283 ---- -
R L Olver 40,000 ---- -
R Quarta ----- -
G W Rose 538,032 768,769 18,975 - 675,994 -
Sir Nigel Rudd 11,400 ---- -
M J Turner 560,867 1,500,021 37,950 109,529 1,291,048 231,618
P A Weinberg ----- -
* or upon appointment
1 the ordinary shares held by Phil Carroll are represented by 3,000 American Depositary Shares 
2 retired as a director on 31 December 2007
3 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007. The option figures for Walt Havenstein include Stock Appreciation Rights under the Executive Share Option Plan.
4 appointed as a director on 13 June 2007
5 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007 Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 77
    Information subject to audit
The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C, D, E, F and G on pages 77 to 83.
The Company's register of directors' interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors' share interests. Details of directors'
interests in the share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in Tables B, C, D and E. The mid-market price for the Company's
ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was 498p (2006 425.75p) and the range during 2007 was 401.5p to 515p.
Table B
Long-term incentive plans
Share Matching Plan
1 January Awarded during Vested during 31 December
2007* the year the year 2007
C V Geoghegan
1
--- -
W P Havenstein
2
- 18,947 - 18,947
I G King
3
- 46,410 - 46,410
S L Mogford
4
--- -
G W Rose - - - -
M J Turner - 109,529 - 109,529
The market price at the date of award for awards made on 22 March 2007 under the Share Matching Plan was  4.565. The awards will vest, subject to the attainment of the performance
condition, on the third anniversary of grant.
The performance condition for the grants of matched shares made in 2007 under the Share Matching Plan on a one-to-one match was based on real EPS growth over the three-year
performance period, with one-third of the matched shares vesting where the Company achieved on average real EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than 4%, two-thirds vesting with a
growth rate of 4% but less than 5%, and full vesting at growth of 5% or over. The revised performance conditions for the Share Matching Plan for grants to be made in 2008 and 2009 are
set out on page 72.
Restricted Share Plan 
In respect of shares vested during the year
Market 
price at Market
Awarded Vested date of price on
1 January during during 31 December Date of award Date of vesting
2007* the year the year 2007 award   vesting  
C V Geoghegan
1
42,764 - 19,994 22,770 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575
W P Havenstein
2
10,249 - - 10,249--- -
I G King
3
75,627 - 37,677 37,950 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575
S L Mogford
4
------- -
G W Rose 33,971 - 14,996 18,975 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575
M J Turner 137,924 - 99,974 37,950 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575
The matching award of shares under the Restricted Share Plan, under which awards have not been granted since 2006, was historically not subject to any performance criteria as it was
designed to retain key staff and encourage executives to re-invest in company shares the cash bonuses that they had earned under the annual bonus plan which was itself subject to
performance conditions. The Restricted Share Plan was replaced by the Share Matching Plan, which is subject to performance conditions as described above and on page 72.
Performance Share Plan
In respect of shares vested during the year
Market 
price at Market
Awarded Vested date of price on
1 January during during 31 December Date of award Date of vesting
2007* the year the year 2007 award   vesting  
W P Havenstein
2
32,270 30.09.03 1.72 01.10.07 4.91
26,454 30.03.04 2.01 30.03.07 4.575
Total 278,788 83,543 58,724 303,607
Awards granted to Walt Havenstein (a US national) under the Performance Share Plan are characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as, subject to attainment of the
performance condition, they are delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the award without the need to exercise an option. They are subject to the same
performance conditions as options granted under the Performance Share Plan to the UK-based directors as set out on page 78. The market price at the date of the award granted 
on 30 March 2007 was  4.57.
The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2007 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was  1,066,284 (2006 nil).
* or upon appointment 
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2007. With the Remuneration Committee's agreement, the Matching award of shares under the Restricted Share Plan for Chris Geoghegan 
will be released in full at the end of the three-year period.
2 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007
3 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007
4 retired as a director on 9 May 2007 Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
78 www.baesyste  ms.com
Table C
Directors' Share Options
Performance Share Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2007 the year the year the year 2007
C V Geoghegan
1
722,231 107,221 148,147 - 681,305
I G King
2
638,707 115,973 202,005 - 552,675
S L Mogford
3
722,231 - 575,545 146,686 -
G W Rose 803,817 122,538 250,361 - 675,994
M J Turner 1,363,562 310,175 382,689 - 1,291,048
Note: Awards granted to Walt Havenstein
4
, a US national, under the Performance Share Plan are characterised as long-term incentives, rather than as options, and are shown under Table B.
The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is as follows:
Granted Exercised Lapsed Date Date 
1 January during during during 31 December Date of of exercise from which Expiry
2007 the year the year the year 2007 grant or lapse exercisable* date
C V Geoghegan
1
234,145 - 78,048 - 156,097 30.09.03 30.03.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.10
210,298 - 70,099 - 140,199 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.11
168,560--- 168,560 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.12
109,228--- 109,228 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.13
- 107,221 - - 107,221 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.14
Total 722,231 107,221 148,147 - 681,305
I G King
2
212,209 - 70,736 - - 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.10
- - 70,736 - 70,737 30.09.03 23.10.07 30.09.07
5
30.09.10
181,601 - 60,533 - 121,068 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.11
147,935--- 147,935 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.12
96,962--- 96,962 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.13
- 115,973 - - 115,973 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.14
Total 638,707 115,973 202,005 - 552,675
S L Mogford
3
234,145 - 78,048 - - 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.10
- - 156,097 - - 30.09.03 10.05.07 10.05.07
5
10.11.07
210,298 - 70,099 - - 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.11
- - 140,199 - - 30.03.04 10.05.07 10.05.07
5
10.11.07
168,560 - 131,102 37,458 - 24.03.05 10.05.07 10.05.07
3
10.11.07
109,228 - - 109,228 - 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
3
12.04.13
Total 722,231 - 575,545 146,686 -
G W Rose 260,494 - 86,831 - - 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.10
- - 86,831 - 86,832 30.09.03 01.10.07 30.09.07
5
30.09.10
230,099 - 76,699 - 153,400 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.11
189,393--- 189,393 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.12
123,831--- 123,831 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.13
- 122,538 - - 122,538 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.14
Total 803,817 122,538 250,361 - 675,994
M J Turner 392,442 - 130,814 - - 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.10
- - 130,814 - 130,814 30.09.03 01.10.07 30.09.07
5
30.09.10
363,184 - 121,061 - 242,123 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.11
303,030--- 303,030 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.12
304,906--- 304,906 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.13
- 310,175 - - 310,175 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.14
Total 1,363,562 310,175 382,689 - 1,291,048
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2007. With the agreement of the Remuneration Committee the performance condition on the 2005, 2006 and 2007 PSP awards for Chris
Geoghegan will be tested at the end of the normal three-year performance period, and any part of the award vesting will be pro-rated for service completed and be exercisable for 
six months.
2 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007
3 retired as a director on 9 May 2007. With the agreement of the Remuneration Committee the performance condition on the 2005 and 2006 PSP awards for Steve Mogford was tested 
at his date of retirement. The 2005 award vested in full (subject to pro-rating for service completed) and the 2006 award lapsed. All vested PSP awards became exercisable within 
six months of retirement. 
4 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007
5 subject to a performance condition which has been met
6 subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested 
* The date from which exercisable refers to the first date from which any tranche of the option remaining at the year end is exercisable (subject to the attainment of the performance
condition where the award has not yet vested).
Awards granted under the Performance Share Plan between 2003 and 2007 are subject to the same performance conditions as those for awards to be granted under the PSP
TSR
in 2008
as set out on page 71, ie 100% of the conditional awards vest if the Company's Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is in the top 20% of TSRs achieved by a sectoral comparator group of 18
companies, with 25% vesting if TSR is in the top 50%, and nil vesting if the Company's performance is outside the top 50%. The awards are also subject to the same secondary measure
for underlying financial performance set out on page 71. Awards that vest at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three, four and five.
The mid-market price for the Company's ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was 498p (2006 425.75p). The range during the year was 401.5p to 515p.  Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 79 BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 79
SAYE Share Option Scheme
All outstanding options held by the executive directors in the SAYE Share Option Scheme were exercised in 2007. 
No further options will be granted under this Scheme.
GrantedExercisedLapsed Exercise Date ofDate
1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise from which Expiry
2007 year year year 2007   grant or lapse exercisable date
C V Geoghegan 
1
435 - 435 - - 1.56 20.04.04 01.06.07 01.06.07 01.12.07
I G King 
2
435 - 435 - - 1.56 20.04.04 01.06.07 01.06.07 01.12.07
G W Rose 435 - 435 - - 1.56 20.04.04 22.08.07 01.06.07 01.12.07
M J Turner 1,499 - 1,499 - - 2.56 09.04.02 07.06.07 01.06.07 01.12.07
The exercise of options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme, an all-employee scheme, was not subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Executive Share Option Plan
1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December
2007 the year the year the year 2007
C V Geoghegan
1
1,410,928 160,831 - 209,490 1,362,269
W P Havenstein
3
96,453 125,315 - - 221,768
I G King
2
1,186,380 173,960 - 90,090 1,270,250
S L Mogford
4
1,469,136 - 819,020 233,433 416,683
G W Rose 1,659,786 183,807 815,123 259,701 768,769
M J Turner 2,445,213 465,262 1,133,439 277,015 1,500,021
The BAE Systems Executive Share Option Plan was used to grant options to the executive directors between 2001 and 2007. No further grants will be made under this Plan other than in
exceptional circumstances. Options granted under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant and options granted between 2005 and 2007
may only be exercised during this period as follows: (i) 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than 4%
over the three-year performance period; (ii) 66.67% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth of 4% but less than 5% over the three-year
performance period; and (iii) 100% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth per annum of 5% or more over the three-year performance
period. The performance conditions for the grants of options made between 2001 and 2004 were the same as for grants made between 2005 and 2007 with the exception of the re-
testing provision: for grants made between 2001 and 2003, where the original three-year performance is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full
period from grant; for grants made in 2004, where the original performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five against the full period from grant. In all these
cases the option will lapse in year five if the targets have not been achieved. In determining the performance measures the Remuneration Committee took the view that the Company's
major investors believe EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
On completion of the BAe/MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors (and other senior executives) under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme. Options
granted to Ian King in 1999 could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9% was
achieved and these options vested in full in February 2006. Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 (which partially vested in 2004) were conditional on the satisfaction 
of a special performance condition based on the achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three-year performance period commencing on 1 January 2000.
The mid-market price for the Company's ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was 498p (2006 425.75p). The range during the year was 401.5p to 515p.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is given overleaf.
Awards granted to Walt Havenstein under the Executive Share Option Plan between 2003 and 2005 were granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights (SARS) Schedule to that plan and are
equity-settled. They are subject to the same performance conditions as options granted under this plan as set out above.
Executive Share Option Plan - Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR)
Subject to Vested on
Grantedexerciseexercise SAR Date
1 January during during during 31 December price Date of Date of from which Expiry
2007 the year the year the year 2007   grant exercise exercisable date
W P Havenstein
3
145,217 - 145,217 91,675 - 1.72 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06 30.09.13
119,044 - 119,044 67,167 - 2.01 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07 30.03.14
90,949--- 90,949 2.64 24.03.05 - 24.03.08 24.03.15
14,923--- 14,923 3.56 22.12.05 - 22.12.08 22.12.15
Total 370,133 - 264,261 158,842 105,872
During 2007 SAR awards over 264,261 shares were subject to exercise and the number of shares vesting and allotted under these stock appreciation rights totalled 158,842 as set 
out above.
In addition, Walt Havenstein has a cash-settled SAR over 53,010 ordinary shares granted on 27 November 2000 at a SAR price of  3.73, exercisable from 27 November 2003. The right is
exercisable until 27 November 2010 and was subject to the performance condition relating to options granted in 2000 (ie exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for any three-
year period over the ten-year life exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a growth requirement of 9%) which has been met.
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2007
2 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007
3 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007
4 retired as a director on 9 May 2007 Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
80 www.baesyste  ms.com
The breakdown of the options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is as follows:
GrantedExercisedLapsed Exercise Date ofDate
1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise from which Expiry
2007 year year year 2007   grant or lapse exercisable date
C V Geoghegan 
1
118,090 - - - 118,090 3.98 03.05.00 - 03.05.03
5
03.05.10
89,552 - - 89,552 - 3.35 03.04.02 21.02.07 03.04.05 03.04.12
119,938 - - 119,938 - 3.26 22.10.02 21.02.07 22.10.05 22.10.12
351,218 - - - 351,218 1.72 30.09.03 - 30.09.06
5
30.09.13
315,447 - - - 315,447 2.01 30.03.04 - 30.03.07
5
30.03.14
252,840 - - - 252,840 2.64 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.15
163,843 - - - 163,843 4.28 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.16
- 160,831 - - 160,831 4.57 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.17
Total 1,410,928 160,831 - 209,4901,362,269
W P Havenstein 
2
96,453 - - - 96,453 4.28 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.16
- 125,315 - - 125,315 4.57 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.17
Total 96,453125,315 - -221,768
I G King
3
138,242 - - - 138,242 4.21 20.12.99 - 20.12.02
5
20.02.09
90,090 - - 90,090 - 3.35 03.04.02 21.02.07 03.04.05 03.04.12
318,314 - - - 318,314 1.72 30.09.03 - 30.09.06
5
30.09.13
272,388 - - - 272,388 2.01 30.03.04 - 30.03.07
5
30.03.14
221,903 - - - 221,903 2.64 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.15
145,443 - - - 145,443 4.28 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.16
- 173,960 - - 173,960 4.57 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.17
Total 1,186,380 173,960 - 90,090 1,270,250
S L Mogford 
4
64,415 - 64,415 - - 4.21 20.12.99 10.05.07 20.12.02
5
10.05.09
87,940 - 87,940 - - 3.98 03.05.00 10.05.07 03.05.03
5
10.05.09
233,433 - - 233,433 - 3.35 03.04.02 21.02.07 03.04.05 03.04.12
351,218 - 351,218 - - 1.72 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.13
315,447 - 315,447 - - 2.01 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.14
252,840 - - - 252,840 2.64 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.15
163,843 - - - 163,843 4.28 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.16
Total 1,469,136 - 819,020 233,433 416,683
G W Rose 79,233 - 79,233 - - 3.29 06.10.98 23.02.07 06.10.01
5
06.10.08
115,125 - - - 115,125 4.21 20.12.99 - 20.12.02
5
20.12.09
259,701 - - 259,701 - 3.35 03.04.02 21.02.07 03.04.05 03.04.12
390,741 - 390,741 - - 1.72 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.13
345,149 - 345,149 - - 2.01 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.14
284,090 - - - 284,090 2.64 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.15
185,747 - - - 185,747 4.28 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.16
- 183,807 - - 183,807 4.57 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.17
Total 1,659,786 183,807 815,123 259,701 768,769
M J Turner 122,855 - - - 122,855 4.21 20.12.99 - 20.12.02
5
20.12.09
277,015 - - 277,015 - 3.35 03.04.02 21.02.07 03.04.05 03.04.12
588,663 - 588,663 - - 1.72 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06
5
30.09.13
544,776 - 544,776 - - 2.01 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07
5
30.03.14
454,545 - - - 454,545 2.64 24.03.05 - 24.03.08
5
24.03.15
457,359 - - - 457,359 4.28 12.04.06 - 12.04.09
6
12.04.16
- 465,262 - - 465,262 4.57 30.03.07 - 30.03.10
6
30.03.17
Total 2,445,213 465,262 1,133,439 277,015 1,500,021
1 retired as a director on 31 December 2007. With the Remuneration Committee's agreement, and exercise being subject to attainment of the performance condition, options granted
prior to 2001 for Chris Geoghegan had their period of exercise determined as 24 months from the date of leaving and options granted from 2001 onwards had their period of exercise
determined as the end of the option's ten-year life.
2 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007
3 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007
4 retired as a director on 9 May 2007. With the Remuneration Committee's agreement, and exercise being subject to attainment of the performance condition, options granted prior to
2001 for Steve Mogford had their period of exercise determined as 24 months from the date of leaving and options granted from 2001 onwards had their period of exercise determined
as the end of the option's ten-year life.
5 subject to a performance condition which has been met
6 subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested
The maximum duration for the grant of an option under the Executive Share Option Plan is ten years.
The mid-market price for the Company's ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was 498p (2006 425.75p). The range during the year was 401.5p to 515p. Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 81
Table D
Options exercised during 2007
Realised Unrealised gain 
Number of Number of gain on sold on retained Price of Market price Market price Date option Date option
Date of options shares sold shares shares option on exercise at year end first would have
exercise exercised on exercise           exercisable
1
lapsed
C V Geoghegan
2
30.03.07 78,048 38,091 174,838 183,403 nil 4.59 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.10
30.03.07 70,099 34,212 157,033 164,721 nil 4.59 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.11
01.06.07 435 - - 1,294 1.56 4.535 4.98 01.06.07 01.12.07
W P Havenstein
3
23.02.07 91,675 91,675 417,350 - nil* 4.5525 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.13
30.03.07 67,167 67,167 307,289 - nil* 4.575 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.14
I G King
4
23.02.07 70,736 34,522 157,201 164,906 nil 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.10
30.03.07 60,533 29,543134,716141,314 nil 4.56 4.9830.03.0730.03.11
01.06.07 435 - - 1,294 1.56 4.535 4.98 01.06.07 01.12.07
23.10.07 70,736 34,522 170,798 179,169 nil 4.9475 4.98 30.09.07 30.09.10
S L Mogford
5
23.02.07 351,218 323,327 916,192 79,033 1.72 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.13
23.02.07 78,049 68,059 309,916 45,491 nil 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.10
30.03.07 315,447 315,447 804,390 - 2.01 4.56 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.14
30.03.07 70,099 70,099 319,651 - nil 4.56 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.11
10.05.07 64,415 64,415 13,044 - 4.21 4.4125 4.98 20.12.02 10.05.09
10.05.07 87,940 87,940 38,034 - 3.98 4.4125 4.98 03.05.03 10.05.09
10.05.07 156,096 156,096 688,774 - nil 4.4125 4.98 10.05.07 10.11.07
10.05.07 140,199 140,199 618,628 - nil 4.4125 4.98 10.05.07 10.11.07
10.05.07 131,102 131,102 578,488 - nil 4.4125 4.98 10.05.07 10.11.07
G W Rose 23.02.07 79,233 66,208 83,663 16,459 3.29 4.55364 4.98 06.10.01 06.10.08
23.02.07 390,741 390,741 1,107,219 - 1.72 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.13
23.02.07 86,831 86,831 395,397 - nil 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.10
30.03.07 345,149 246,586 630,644 252,075 2.01 4.5675 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.14
30.03.07 76,699 37,432 170,971 179,352 nil 4.5675 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.11
22.08.07 435 - - 1,263 1.56 4.4625 4.98 01.06.07 01.12.07
01.10.07 86,831 64,604 316,721 108,968 nil 4.9025 4.98 30.09.07 30.09.10
M J Turner 23.02.07 588,663 588,663 1,668,059 - 1.72 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.13
23.02.07 130,814 130,814 595,680 - nil 4.55364 4.98 30.09.06 30.09.10
30.03.07 544,776 544,776 1,389,179 - 2.01 4.56 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.14
30.03.07 121,061 121,061 552,038 - nil 4.56 4.98 30.03.07 30.03.11
07.06.07 1,499 - - 2,582 2.56 4.2825 4.98 01.06.07 01.12.07
01.10.07 130,814 130,814 645,044 - nil 4.931 4.98 30.09.07 30.09.10
Total 13,360,956 1,521,324
1 subject to performance condition
2 retired as a director on 31 December 2007
3 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007
4 appointed as director on 1 January 2007
5 retired as a director on 9 May 2007
* equity-settled Stock Appreciation Right
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2007, as calculated at the date of exercise, was  14,882,280 (2006  1,395,166).
Table E
Performance Share Award
1 January Awarded during Vested during 31 December
2007 the year the year 2007
M J Turner - 231,618 - 231,618
Mike Turner was granted a contingent award over 231,618 shares on 16 October 2007. The shares will vest in two equal tranches, for nil consideration, in the year following his retirement
on 31 August 2008, subject to the satisfaction of certain performance targets by 31 August 2008. These targets relate to continuing the successful implementation of the Company's
business strategy, satisfaction of leadership objectives set by the Remuneration Committee, achieving an orderly handover of key external relationships and facilitating an orderly
succession to the Chief Executive role. The market price at the date of award was  5.10. Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors' report - Corporate governance
Remuneration report (continued)
82 www.baesyste  ms.com
Table F
Directors' remuneration
2007 2006
Base Base
salary Fees Bonus Benefits Other pay Total salary Fees Bonus Benefits Other pay Total
 '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000
Chairman
R L Olver - 562 - 19 - 581 - 500 - 6 - 506
Executive directors
C V Geoghegan
2
490 - 411 33 147 1,081 468 - 444 31 105 1,048
W Havenstein
3
390 - 584 61 - 1,035 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
I G King
3
545 - 532 22 - 1,099 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
M Lester
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 568 - 556 27 - 1,151
S L Mogford
2
176 - 243 13 - 432 468 - 463 25 - 956
M H Ronald
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 542 - 773 31 643 1,989
G W Rose 560 - 532 32 - 1,124 530 - 519 27 - 1,076
M J Turner 945 - 1,375 35 284 2,639 870 - 1,305 31 196 2,402
Non-executive directors
Prof S Birley
2
- 26--- 26 - 73--- 73
P J Carroll - 78--- 78 - 70--- 70
Dr U Cartellieri
2
- 47--- 47 - 58--- 58
M J Hartnall - 86--- 86 - 78--- 78
A Inglis
3
- 40--- 40 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Sir Peter Mason - 81--- 81 - 73--- 73
Rt Hon M Portillo
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a - 17--- 17
R Quarta - 66--- 66 - 58--- 58
Sir Nigel Rudd - 75--- 75 - 15--- 15
P A Weinberg - 93--- 93 - 77--- 77
3,106 1,154 3,677 215 431 8,583 3,446 1,019 4,060 178 944 9,647
1 retired during or at the end of 2006
2 retired during or at the end of 2007
3 appointed in 2007
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from
appointment. 
The other pay received by Chris Geoghegan and Mike Turner was in respect of a cash supplement payable from opting out of future accrual under the Company pension schemes.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where applicable, the provision of a car and the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, attendance at corporate
events and support in relation to relocation/second residence. The benefits received by Walt Havenstein, the US-based executive director, include a cash allowance for a car, medical
examination, dental benefits and insured life benefits. The benefit received by the Chairman, Dick Olver, was the taxable benefit relating to the private use of a chauffeur.
In 2007, Chris Geoghegan and Steve Mogford were each entitled to a sum of  490,000, being 12 months' salary in lieu of notice, to which they waived their rights in return for augmented
pension benefits as disclosed on page 74 and in Table G on page 83.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors during 2007 are detailed on page 75. In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of  4,000 per meeting was paid to the US-based non-
executive directors, Phil Carroll and Peter Weinberg, who attended five meetings in the UK. With the exception of Ulrich Cartellieri and Sue Birley, the remaining non-executive directors,
being UK-based, received the same allowance to attend two meetings in the US. Ulrich Cartellieri received  4,000 to attend one meeting in the US prior to his retirement from the Board
and Sue Birley did not attend any meetings in the US during 2007. 
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and was employed by the Company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role until 31 December 2007. 
In 2007 his remuneration was  331,600 (2006  316,600) and comprised a salary and a cash allowance for a car. Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004.
He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship role and will cease to be an employee on 29 February 2008. The Company will invite him to become a member of its Home
Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia. In 2007 his remuneration was  332,400 (2006  317,350) and comprised a salary and a cash allowance for a car.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to Table G on page 83. Directors' report - Business review Directors' report - Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 83
Table G
Post-retirement benefits
Change in 
Accrued Increase/ accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in
pension at (decrease) pension value at value at transfer value
31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Director' s less director' s
2007
1
benefits for inflation 2007
2
2007 contributions contributions
Age NRA*   per annum   per annum   per annum        
C V Geoghegan
3
53 60 267,458 20,525 11,573 3,381,361 3,495,623 - 114,262
W Havenstein 
4
59 60 75,905 19,073 18,350 590,700 791,208 3,375 197,133
I G King 51 62 373,388 40,934 28,882 2,736,838 3,075,417 46,230 292,349
S L Mogford 
5
51 60 184,155 (51,408) (59,948) 2,813,722 3,165,154 16,258 335,174
G W Rose
6
55 60 295,575 32,590 23,056 3,944,663 4,326,358 51,857 329,838
M J Turner
7
59 60 659,544 85,138 64,315 10,546,221 11,637,570 - 1,091,349
* Normal Retirement Age
1 Accrued pensions may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme. In addition, a longevity adjustment factor applies to UK pension accrued after 
5 April 2006.
2 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the
calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes. For US-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used for accounting disclosures. The amount of the increase in
transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Chris Geoghegan ( 224,755); Walt Havenstein ( 35,712); Ian King ( 218,519); Steve Mogford ( 132,759); George Rose
( 271,274); Mike Turner ( 693,464).
3 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006, Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of the pension scheme and since April 2006 has been receiving a
taxable salary supplement of 30% of his base salary. The pension shown above is the accrued pension at 31 December 2007. Chris Geoghegan retired from the Board on
31 December 2007 and started to draw his pension with effect from 1 January 2008. His accrued pension was reduced on retirement to  201,814 to allow for early payment. This
early retirement pension was increased by  32,102 pa by way of a Company augmentation of  980,000 relating to his payment in lieu of notice and the matching Company payment as
referred to on page 74, calculated in accordance with the scheme's normal augmentation factors.
4 Walt Havenstein's accrued pension comprises of  13,902 from a contributory Qualified Plan and  62,003 from Non-Qualified Plans. In addition, Walt Havenstein participates in a
Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit. In 2007 the Company paid
contributions of $6,308 ( 3,173) into this 401(k) arrangement. In addition, the Company paid $13,427 ( 6,754) into a Deferred Compensation arrangement. Walt Havenstein is paid
in US dollars. Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value ( 1,206) and ( 12,574) respectively is due to currency movements.
5 Steve Mogford retired from the Board on 9 May 2007 and started to draw his pension with effect from 1 June 2007. His pension was reduced for early payment. This early retirement
pension was increased by  31,056 pa by way of a Company augmentation of  980,000 relating to his payment in lieu of notice and the matching Company payment as referred to on
page 74, calculated in accordance with the scheme's normal augmentation factors.
6 George Rose has an unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 5 April 2006 that is partly funded and partly unfunded. No company contributions have been
made to these arrangements during the year.
7 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006 Mike Turner elected to opt out of the pension scheme and since April 2006 has been receiving a taxable
salary supplement of 30% of his base salary. 
Richard Lapthorne, a former director, has an unfunded pension arrangement payable by the Company. In 2007, pension payments made by the Company to him were  93,554 
(2006  90,078).