 DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
90 www.baesystems.com
REMUNERATION REPORT
Members
Carl Symon (Chairman)
Roberto Quarta
Nick Rose 
Responsibilities 
- Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman,
executive directors, members of the Executive Committee
(EC), the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
- Within the agreed policy , determining individual
remuneration packages for the Chairman, executive
directors and EC members.
- Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included
in service agreements for the Chairman, executive
directors, EC members, the Company Secretary and
other senior executives, including termination payments
and compensation commitments, where applicable.
- Approving any employee share-based incentive
schemes and any performance conditions to be
used for such schemes.
- Determining any share scheme performance targets. 
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, which
conform with the requirements of the Combined Code, can be 
found on the Company' s website or can be obtained from the
Company Secretary.
Carl Symon
Remuneration Committee
Chairman
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Remuneration report is structured as follows:
- Remuneration Committee report Page 90
- Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee report Page 92
- Remuneration reporting:
- Remuneration strategy, policy and service Pages 93 
contracts for executive directors to 103
- Chairman' s appointment, term and fees Page 103
- Non-executive directors' appointment, term and fees Page 104
- T abular information on directors' 
shareholdings, share-based incentives, Pages 105
emoluments and pensions to 111
Governance 
The members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Following Sir Nigel Rudd' s decision to retire from the Board at the end of
2009, the Board appointed Carl Symon as Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee in August 2009 in Sir Nigel' s stead. 
Dick Olver , the Company' s Chairman, also served as a member of the
Committee from 23 September 2009 until 17 February 2010. He was
deemed to be independent on his appointment as Board Chairman on
1 July 2004. Nick Rose was appointed to the Committee with effect 
from 17 February 2010.
The Chief Executive and, other than during the period when he served as a
committee member , the Company' s Chairman, attend Committee meetings
by invitation only . They do not attend where their individual remuneration is
discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
In 2009, the Committee met six times and details of attendance at these
meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance report on page 83. 
The Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent Adviser
in 2007 to provide advice to the Committee and its individual members
on all aspects of the Committee' s remit. Kepler Associates will not
undertake any work for the Company whilst they are retained as the
Committee' s Independent Adviser . Representatives from Kepler
Associates have attended each of the Committee meetings during 2009
and will be in attendance at all meetings unless specifically requested
otherwise by the Committee. 
During the year , the Committee also received material assistance and
advice on remuneration policy from the Group' s Human Resources
Director , Alastair Imrie, and the Human Resources Director , Group
Remuneration and Benefits, Graham Middleton. Dick Olver , Chairman,
and Ian King, Chief Executive, also provided advice that was of material
assistance to the Committee. 
Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters who are
appointed by the Company , and who also provided services to the Company
during the year . The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to
it by Linklaters are of a technical nature and did not create any conflict of
interest. If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Committee
would appoint separate legal advisers from those used by the Company . 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), who are appointed by the Company 
and also provided services to the Company during the year , provided
detailed information on market trends and the competitive positioning 
of packages. Hewitt New Bridge Street, who are appointed by the
Committee, provided advice on the total shareholder return figures 
for assessing the performance condition under the Performance 
Share Plan (PSP).
On an annual basis, the Committee' s effectiveness is reviewed as part 
of the Board' s externally facilitated evaluation process. BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 91
The table below shows the annual timetable of Committee activities:
Q1
Directors' and EC
members' remuneration
Shareholder consultation on
remuneration review
Approve remuneration for EC
members
Annual bonus
Review prior year performance
against financial and non-financial
objectives. Where applicable,
award bonuses 
Set directors' and EC members'
performance targets and
objectives for current year
Share plans
Approve Group All-Employee
Free Shares Plan payments
Grant of Spring awards to
directors and executives
Miscellaneous
Review Remuneration Committee
T erms of Reference and output
of the Remuneration Committee
performance evaluation 
Review Remuneration Report for
recommendation to the Board
Q3
Q2
Review directors' actual pay and
bonus for previous year against
comparator group actuals
Set basis for annual
remuneration review
Review progress of directors'
and EC members' performance
against targets
Grant of Autumn awards to
directors and executives
Review pay review for senior
executives below the EC 
Q4 Review market position
(including pensions)
Set bonus levels and share
plan grant levels
Set directors' salaries
Review share-based reward
considering market trends, and
review status of performance
conditions, dilution levels and
usage for following year
Agree grant policy for Spring awards
Approve Group All-Employee Free
Shares Plan for following year
Review market position of
package (including pensions) for
senior executives below the EC
Activities 
During the period under review, the Committee:
- Assessed the level of achievement against financial and non-financial
objectives under the annual incentive plan, and determined the levels
of payout as detailed on page 99.
- Considered the outcome of the performance conditions for the March
2007 Share Matching Plan (SMP) awards and share options; the real
growth in EPS over the three-year performance period exceeded 5% pa
so that the awards of share options and matching SMP shares vest 
in full.
- Considered the outcome of the performance condition for the March
2007 awards under the PSP; these lapsed as the total shareholder
return over the three-year performance period to the end of 2009 of 
-10.4% was below the median return of the global comparator group 
of aerospace and defence companies of -5.1%.
- Agreed the package for Linda Hudson on her appointment to the Board
as President and Chief Executive Officer , BAE Systems, Inc., and an
executive director of BAE Systems plc. 
- Agreed the Chief Executive' s recommendation to leave salary and
incentive levels for executive directors unchanged for 2010. 
- Agreed significant changes to US pension arrangements to ensure
they remain affordable and competitive.
- Retained the same performance conditions for 2010 awards under
the SMP and the PSP despite the challenging economic environment. 
- Increased the proportion of the annual incentive measured against
safety and business conduct objectives from approximately 12.6% 
to 15% to further reinforce key aspects of the Group' s Corporate
Responsibility agenda.
- Retained the requirement for one-third of executive directors' annual
incentives (25% for EC members and other senior executives) to be
compulsorily deferred into the SMP .
- Retained the requirement for executive directors and EC members 
to build up a shareholding over time of at least 200% of salary. 
- Decided to introduce a claw back arrangement on in-year annual
incentives, and future awards under the SMP and PSP prior to vesting. 
- Consulted with major shareholders on aspects of remuneration
strategy and policy. 
The Company' s remuneration strategy, policy and details of 
executive remuneration are set out on pages 93 to 111 of this
Remuneration report. 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 
Carl Symon Remuneration Committee Chairman DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
92 www.baesystems.com
Governance
The Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee has delegated authority from
the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive directors on its behalf. 
Walt Havenstein was a Committee member up to June 2009. Linda Hudson
joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board in October 2009.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' FEES COMMITTEE REPORT
Members
Responsibilities 
- Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors
(excluding the Chairman) and making changes to such
fees as deemed appropriate. 
Dick Olver (Chairman)
Philip Bramwell
Linda Hudson 
Ian King
Activities 
The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by the
Committee when discharging its responsibilities: 
- fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the necessary
skills, experience and knowledge required to ensure that the Board is
able to discharge its duties effectively;
- in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of time
individual non-executive directors are required to devote to their duties,
and also the scale, complexity and international nature of the
business, and the responsibility involved;
- fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and shall
not be performance-related; and
- non-executive directors shall not participate in the Company' s share-
based incentive schemes or pension scheme. 
The Committee meets each year to consider the fees paid to the non-
executive directors. Having reviewed the time commitments expected of
non-executive directors and the market competitive positioning of existing
fee levels, the Committee agreed in January 2010 to make no changes to
their fees at the current time as detailed on page 104. 
On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee
Dick Olver Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee Chairman  BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 93
The Company' s remuneration strategy is to provide a remuneration
package that:
- helps to attract, retain and motivate
- is aligned to shareholders' interests
- is competitive against the appropriate market
- encourages and supports a T otal Performance culture aligned 
to the achievement of the Company' s strategic objectives
- is fair and transparent
- can be applied consistently throughout the Group
REMUNERATION STRATEGY
Base salary
Annual incentive
Share Matching Plan
Performance Share Plan
Pension provision
Other benefits
Global all-employee 
incentive plan
ELEMENTS OF PACKAGE
Recognise market value of role and individual' s skills, experience and performance
Drive and reward annual performance of individuals, teams and the Company on both financial and 
non-financial metrics, including behaviours
Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual incentive into
shares, and drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term Earnings per Share (EPS) performance
through co-investment aligned to the interests of shareholders 
Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
aligned to the interests of shareholders
Provide competitive and affordable retirement benefits which reward long-term performance through
seniority, and loyalty through long service
Provide competitive cost effective benefits package through leveraging the Company' s size and scale
Reward all employees globally for Group performance, encouraging employee share ownership aligned
to the interests of shareholders
PURPOSE
T o achieve the strategy, the remuneration policy for executive
directors and EC members is to:
- Set base salary at around median of the relevant market
competitive level
- Reward stretching superior performance with upper quartile reward 
- Provide an appropriate balance between: 
- short-term and long-term reward
- fixed and variable reward
- with the balance becoming more long-term and more highly
geared with seniority
- Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory
deferral of annual incentive into the Share Matching Plan
- Provide a competitive package of benefits
REMUNERATION POLICY
Following the annual review in November 2009, the Committee concluded that the current remuneration strategy remains
appropriate, and intends to continue with the executive remuneration policy as detailed in this report in 2010 and subsequent
years for executive directors and Executive Committee (EC) members, and this policy will be flowed down to the most senior
executives within the Group globally (approximately 280) to create a consistent global approach to reward. The principles of
the remuneration strategy are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of seniority and local
market practice. The Committee will continue to consult on material changes with principal shareholders. 
REMUNERATION STRATEGY , POLICY AND PACKAGES 
2009 remuneration review 
The 2009 review not only considered the Company' s executive remuneration packages against the market, but also the Company' s performance
to date and its corporate strategy for the next five years. 
Information on the market for comparable management positions was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as to where
to position the various elements of the package relative to comparable companies. 
The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator groups for the individual positions, taking account of company size, scale of
operations and breadth of role. The comparator group for the UK executive directors comprised the FTSE 50 companies (excluding financial
services and retail) with market capitalisation nearest to that of BAE Systems. The Committee believes that using market capitalisation creates
alignment between the value placed on the Company and the value placed on the executives who manage it. The six largest companies were also
excluded as were several others to arrive at a comparator group of 23 companies (12 larger and 11 smaller) which the Committee believed
appropriate for benchmarking UK executive directors' packages. 
For the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc., regression analysis was used on US aerospace, defence and general industry
sector data to produce appropriate market figures consistent with the size and scale of the US business, adjusting where necessary to reflect the
extra responsibility for her plc board role. 
The base salary , total cash reward (base salary plus annual incentive), total direct reward (total cash reward plus long-term incentives) and total
reward (total direct reward plus pension) were analysed at the lower quartile, median and upper quartile for the relevant posts in the comparator group
companies. This gives the Committee a view on the competitiveness of the individual elements of the package as well as the package as a whole.  DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
94 www.baesystems.com
The Committee also reviewed market trends around the individual elements of remuneration to ensure that the structure of the package stays
in line with market practice. The remuneration structure overall also takes account of the performance of the individual, the Company as a whole,
and the pay and conditions of Group employees. 
Overall conclusion
Overall, the review indicated that the structure and level of the packages were not out of line with the market, although the base salaries for both the
Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc., who are both relatively new to their roles, were slightly behind
their respective benchmarks. Having taken account of the current economic climate, the challenges facing the business going forward and the pay
environment for employees in general, the Committee agreed the Chief Executive' s recommendation that salary and incentive levels for executive
directors remain unchanged for 2010. As part of the overall review of remuneration strategy and in order to maintain the alignment between reward
and performance, the Committee agreed clawback arrangements intended to cover situations for example, where results are restated or otherwise
turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executive' s employment can be terminated for cause. These arrangements are to be applied
in respect of the compulsorily deferred element of the in-year annual incentive, the 2010 PSP and SMP awards, and their respective equivalents
in future years.
Incentives 
The Group' s strategy is set out on page 10 along with the Group Strategic Framework. This explains how the Group' s strategy is delivered through
the Group Strategic Objective, which is to deliver T otal Performance through Customer Focus, Financial Performance, Programme Execution and
Responsible Behaviour . Underpinning the drive for T otal Performance are the Group' s Values - T rusted, Innovative and Bold. The Group will focus 
on six Strategic Actions, which emphasise the home market strategies and are underpinned by the Integrated Business Plan (IBP), which sets out
the individual businesses' plans for the next five years in terms of strategy, actions and performance, making sure they are aligned to collectively
deliver the Strategic Actions and the Group' s strategy. 
Each year , the Board agrees the EC' s top ten objectives which are those key to delivering the Group' s strategy. These are set out on page 11 and 
are used as the basis to set the individual objectives for the executive directors and EC members which are agreed by the Chairman, Dick Olver , 
and the Committee. These then flow down to the senior leadership team to ensure that all businesses within the Group are aligned with the overall
Group strategy. 
The remuneration strategy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Group' s strategy through the
combination of short-term incentives targeted at business performance, Group performance, personal performance and leadership behaviours,
and long-term incentives targeted at Group performance. T o directly align short-term and long-term reward, executive directors will be required to
invest at least one-third of their net 2010 annual incentive into the Share Matching Plan (SMP) when the annual incentive is paid in 2011. Further
investment can be made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum investment of half their net annual incentive. 
Annual Incentive Plan 
The annual incentives for 2010 continue to focus on a combination of in-year financial performance, and longer-term performance and risk
management (both business risk and reputation risk). T wo-thirds is driven off in-year financial performance and one-third based on driving
performance, and improvement in safety and business conduct objectives (reinforcing the importance of key aspects of the Group' s Corporate
Responsibility agenda) combined with the other objectives supporting the Group' s strategy. T o further reinforce the importance of the Group' s
Corporate Responsibility agenda, the proportion of the annual incentive driven off safety and business conduct objectives increases from
approximately 12.6% in 2009 to 15% for 2010.
The financial targets are derived from the IBP , and are based on earnings and cash targets as these are seen as the key indicators of both short-
term and long-term financial performance and value creation, and are supported by the Company' s major shareholders. At Group level, EPS is used
whereas EBITA
1
is used to measure earnings performance at a business level. Previously cash targets have been based on net cash/debt at the
year end. T o incentivise improved phasing of cash generation throughout the year , a combination of year end and average quarterly net cash/debt
was introduced for 2009 and this will continue for 2010. As last year , the payout for achieving on-target performance against the in-year financial
targets remains at 40% of maximum. In relation to the profit element, due to the stretching nature of the plan, the Committee has introduced for
2010 a threshold paying 20% of maximum. Payout for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
The table below summaries the overall structure of the annual incentives for executive directors. 
Proportion of annual incentive
Performance measure 2009 2010
In-year financial 66.6% 66.6%
Safety and ethics/business conduct 12.6% 15.0%
Other objectives 20.8% 18.4%
The Committee believes that the annual incentive targets for the executive directors are stretching but achievable. The structure of the 2010
annual incentive plan for each of the executive directors is summarised in their individual sections on pages 96 to 98. 
Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs) 
The Company operates two LTIPs (having ceased awards of share options in 2008) - the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Share Matching
Plan (SMP). No changes have been made for the 2010 awards apart from the introduction of a clawback provision detailed above. Full details of 
the PSP and SMP are contained on pages 100 and 101. 
The combination of the annual incentive plan, SMP and PSP provide a balance between short-term cash reward and longer-term share-based reward
as illustrated opposite for the Chief Executive. The proportion of the incentive package delivered through longer-term performance is significantly
higher at stretch payout than at on-target payout, demonstrating that the package supports the achievement of superior long-term performance and
strongly aligns the interests of executives to those of shareholders through a long-term reward being delivered in shares. The second graph shows
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 95
which performance metrics are driving the value of the incentives. This shows that,at on-target performance,the higher influence of the annual
incentive means that in-year measures drive almost 40% of the package value,with long-term EPS (which underpins the SMP and half the PSP
awards) accounting for a similar proportion. But,at stretch performance,the influence of the annual incentive is reduced,and the SMP and PSP
account between them for nearly three-quarters of the value of the incentive package,with the most important drivers of value becoming long-term
EPS and share price. This shows that achieving strong performance on the in-year measures is important but,in order to maximise the value of their
incentive package,executives need to drive growth in long-term EPS and share price.
Cash bonus PSP Deferred bonus SMP
Proportion of incentive package (%)
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
0 20 40 60 80 100
PROPORTION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S INCENTIVE PACKAGE DELIVERED
BY THE VARIOUS INCENTIVE PLANS (%)
In-year measures Share price Long-term EPS Relative TSR
Proportion of incentive package (%)
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
100 0 20 40 60 80
PERFORMANCE DRIVERS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S
INCENTIVE PACKAGE (%)
Personal shareholding policy
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal
to 200% of base salary. As a minimum,a holding equal to 100% of base salary must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or
options exercised through the executive share option schemes or long-term incentive schemes,by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% of the
options which are exercised on each occasion. Thereafter,executive directors are required to increase their personal shareholding gradually,on
each occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% of the options exercised each year,until a personal shareholding equal to 200% of annual
base salary is achieved and maintained. These limits are reviewed periodically. A similar arrangement applies to senior executives eligible for
share-based long-term incentives with limits aligned to the levels of awards made under these plans.
Details of the directors' personal shareholdings are shown in Table A on page 105.
Pension provision
No changes to the pension arrangements for uK executive directors were made in 2009. A review of uK executive pension arrangements is planned
for 2010.
A major review of uS pensions was undertaken in 2009 to take account of the rapidly changing uS pension market and new funding rules which
come into effect in 2011. As a result of this review,a number of significant changes were agreed which impact both existing employees and new
hires. These also simplify the arrangements going forward by consolidating the numerous legacy plans to provide a much simpler structure for
future service benefits. These changes effectively:
- Froze the legacy final salary plans at the end of 2009,with future service for these members being provided by the 2006 Career Average Cash
Plan together with a standard 85% Company match on up to 6% of salary in the defined contribution plan (known as the 401(k) Plan). The 2006
Plan provides a cash sum at retirement of 10% of career pay (salary and bonus).
- Bonuses will no longer be pensionable in the 401(k) plans.
- Only a 401(k) plan will be provided for new hires.
- Employees who currently have only a 401(k) plan will move to a standardised plan with either a 50% or 100% Company match (depending on their
business) on up to 6% of salary.
The Committee had previously agreed that,from 2008,where bonuses are pensionable,their pensionability is limited to 150% of base salary.
Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan and had a supplementary pension arrangement (SERP) which sought to match the pension
arrangements provided by her previous employer. This uplifted her 2006 Plan accrual from the normal 10% of pay to 15% of pay. Effective in 2010,
the SERP providing this additional benefit was reduced in line with the average impact for other uS employees such that,from 1 January 2010,her
2006 Plan accrues at the rate of 14.1% of career pay. DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
96 www.baesystems.com
Base salary Deferred bonus Pension SMP PSP Cash bonus
Proportion of overall package (%)
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
100 80 60 40 20 0
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND 
PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Base salary Deferred bonus Pension SMP PSP Cash bonus
 0  2,000  4,000  6,000  8,000  10,000  12,000
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
Value of package ( '000)
VALUE OF PACKAGE ( '000)
Ian King (Chief Executive) 2010 2009
Base salary  900,000 pa
Annual incentive Max/on-target (% of salary) 225% / 110%
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch On-target Stretch
Group EPS 36% 90% 30% 75%
Group cash 24% 60% 30% 75%
Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25%
Business conduct/Ethics Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25%
Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 46.5%
Deferral into SMP
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa 
PSP Grant (% of salary) 250%
Performance condition   on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and 
defence companies and   on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
Pension accrual 1/30th of three year final average salary 
from age 62 for 8% member' s contributions 
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through
fixed and variable reward.
STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' PACKAGES  BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 97
George Rose (Group Finance Director) 2010 2009
Base salary  622,500 pa
Annual incentive Max/on-target (% of salary) 150% / 73% 
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch On-target Stretch
Group EPS 24% 60% 20% 50%
Group cash 16% 40% 20% 50%
Safety Up to 11.25% Up to 9.75%
Business conduct/Ethics Up to 11.25% Up to 9.75%
Other objectives Up to 27.5% Up to 30.5%
Deferral into SMP
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa 
PSP Grant (% of salary) 250%
Performance condition   on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and 
defence companies and   on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
Pension accrual 1/30th of three year final average salary 
from age 60 for 9.29% member' s contributions 
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through
fixed and variable reward.
Base salary Deferred bonus Pension SMP PSP Cash bonus
Proportion of overall package (%)
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
100 80 60 40 20 0
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND 
PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Base salary Deferred bonus Pension SMP PSP Cash bonus
Value of package ( '000)
 0  1,000  2,000  3,000  4,000  5,000  6,000
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
VALUE OF PACKAGE ( '000)
STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' PACKAGES CONTINUED DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
98 www.baesystems.com
Linda Hudson (President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.) 2010 2009*
Base salary $900,000 pa
Annual incentive Max/on-target (% of salary) 225% / 110%
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch On-target Stretch
Group EPS 12% 30% 10% 25%
Group cash 8% 20% 10% 25%
Business EBITA 24% 60% 20% 50%
Business cash 16% 40% 20% 50%
Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25%
Business conduct/Ethics Up to 16.875% Up to 14.25%
Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 46.5%
Deferral into SMP
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa 
PSP Grant (% of salary) 250%
Performance condition   on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and 
defence companies and   on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
Pension accrual Cash sum at retirement of Cash sum at retirement of 
14.1% career pay (salary plus 15% of career pay (salary plus 
bonus up to maximum of bonus up to maximum of 
150% of salary) for a 150% of salary) for a 
contribution of 1.5% of pay, contribution of 1.5% of pay, 
plus an 85% Company 401(k) plus a 100% Company 401(k)
match on contributions match on contributions
to a maximum of 6% of salary to a maximum of 6% of pay
* From 26 October 2009, the date of Linda Hudson' s appointment to the Board.
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through
fixed and variable reward.
Base salary Deferred bonus Pension SMP PSP Cash bonus
Proportion of overall package (%)
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
100 80 60 40 20 0
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND 
PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Base salary Deferred bonus Pension SMP PSP Cash bonus
Value of package ($'000)
$0 $2,000 $4,000 $6,000 $8,000 $10,000 $12,000
On-target
 performance
Stretch
 performance
VALUE OF PACKAGE ($'000)
STRUCTURE OF INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' PACKAGES CONTINUED BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 99
Performance in 2009 
The structure of the 2009 Annual Incentive Plan was set out in last year' s Remuneration report and is summarised in the individual sections for
each of the executive directors on pages 96 to 98. 
Financial performance 
2009 was a good year in terms of financial performance following the Group' s strong performance of recent years. At the Group level, EPS performance
was above target, but some way short of stretch performance, whilst stretch performance was achieved on both cash targets. At the operating group
level, Programmes & Support and International both exceeded their profit targets but did not hit stretch. Both achieved their stretch cash targets.
Electronics, Intelligence & Support and Land & Armaments both hit their stretch profit targets and, whilst both exceeded their cash targets, they did
not achieve their stretch cash targets. BAE Systems, Inc. achieved stretch performance on both profit and year end cash and, whilst exceeding its
average cash target, fell short of its stretch target. The US pension accounting gain and the regulatory penalties were excluded from the calculation
of growth in the Group' s underlying EPS performance for incentive purposes.
Non-financial performance 
Page 7 set outs the EC' s top ten objectives for 2009 and the assessment of performance against these, whilst page 40 provides more detailed
information on the performance against the specific objectives relating to safety and business conduct. Each senior executive also had a personal
safety objective and a personal business conduct objective. 
Business conduct: All the Group objectives in relation to business conduct were achieved, including those personal to the individual executive
directors and EC members. In particular , the 2009 milestones for the Woolf implementation programme were substantively achieved, including
the launch of the global Code of Conduct and communication of this to employees through team briefings. 
A sample of employees worldwide were invited to participate in a survey on the Group' s approach to responsible business conduct which showed
a trend increase across all six areas, including an increased awareness of the ethical standards expected. 
Safety: The executive directors and EC members conducted the required safety reviews. The minimum safety Level 3 standard was achieved across
all lines of business and, at Group level, over 60% of major manufacturing sites reached Level 4. The total incident rate across the Group fell by 33%
against the 10% improvement target.
Other aspects of performance: Against the remaining top ten Group objectives, excellent progress has been made. Accordingly, the Committee
agreed an overall rating of 6.5 out of 7.5. This sets the starting point with further adjustment, up or down, depending on the assessment of the
individual executive' s overall performance and leadership behavioural performance. 
Accordingly, the Committee determined the payout under the 2009 Annual Incentive Plan as follows:
2009 annual incentive payout Ian King Linda Hudson* George Rose
% of stretch 83.0% 87.9% 80.9%
% of base salary 186.7% 179.4% 121.4%
Amount ('000)  1,680 $296  755
* The figures for Linda Hudson are in respect of the period from her appointment to the Board. 
In addition: 
- The real growth in EPS over the three years to 2009 exceeded 5% pa so that the awards of share options and matching SMP shares granted in
2007 vest in full.
- The Company' s TSR for awards of shares made in March 2007 under the PSP did not exceed the median position when compared against the
comparator group of 18 other defence and aerospace companies, and accordingly lapsed.
The Committee also determined that the second tranche of shares and cash due to Mike T urner (the previous Chief Executive) on 1 September
2009 in respect of the special incentive awarded to him in October 2007, which vested in full on 1 September 2008, should be released.
VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 OF  100 INVESTMENT ( ) 
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
 250
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
FTSE 100
BAE Systems
UK executive director pay review comparator group
Aerospace and defence comparator group
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
 250
31 Dec
2009
31 Dec
2008
31 Dec
2007
31 Dec
2006
31 Dec
2005
31 Dec
2004
BAE Systems FTSE 100
This graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008,
shows the value by 31 December 2009, on a total shareholder return basis, of  100 invested in
BAE Systems on 31 December 2004 compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE 100
index. The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad
equity index. As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be the
most appropriate general UK equity index. 
The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment in BAE Systems
over recent years as compared to (i) the FTSE 100 index; (ii) the companies forming the sectoral
peer group for the Performance Share Plan; and (iii) the companies forming the comparator pay
group for the 2009 executive pay review. The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the
comparators at the end of 2009 of a single  100 investment made at the beginning of each of
the last five years.
VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 OF  100 INVESTMENT AT 
31 DECEMBER 2004 ( ) DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
100 www.baesystems.com
Plan provisions
Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2010 are detailed
below. Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2010 are detailed on pages 106 and 107. 
Clawback arrangements have been introduced and will operate in respect of these two plans from the 2010 awards onwards. The arrangements
are intended to cover situations, for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executive' s
employment can be terminated for cause.
Key features for PSP awards in 2010:
- awards of shares are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant;
- the shares are subject to satisfaction of three-year performance conditions;
- half the PSP award will be based on a Total Shareholder Return performance condition (PSP
TSR
) and the other half on an Earnings per Share
(PSP
EPS
) performance condition;
- in addition,there is a further test on the PSP
TSR
element to ensure that the TSR performance is supported by the underlying performance
of the Company;
- shares under award after satisfaction of the performance condition vest in three equal tranches at the end of years three,four and five; and
- shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
Proportion of the award capable of exercise: determined by the rate
of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance period,
with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less and 100%
vesting at 11% growth as set out opposite (15% to 33% growth over
three years).
The rationale for the EPS performance measure is that major
investors consider EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial
performance and value creation.
SUMMARY OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (PSP)
PERFORMANCE CONDITION - PSP
EPS
0
25
50
75
100
Annual actual EPS growth (%)
% of total award vesting
0123456789 10 11 12
PERFORMANCE CONDITION - PSP
EPS
HOW THE PSP OPERATES
50% of award based on TSR 
growth relative to a sectoral comparator 
group of companies over the three-year
performance period, subject to a 
secondary financial measure
PSP 
award
50% of award based on actual 
annual EPS growth over the 
three-year performance period
PSP award 
paid in shares
(amount varying
according to
performance
achieved)
One-third available immediately 
at the end of year three
The second third available 
at the end of year four
The final 
third available 
at the end of 
year five
Year 
3
Year 
4
Year 
6
Year 
5
Year 
7
Year 
1
Year 
0
Year 
2
Year 
3
For the US executives, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three, four and five, subject to the performance condition achieved. BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 101
0
1:1
2:1
Annual EPS growth (%)
Match
0123456789 10 11 12
The graph opposite summarises the position on the TSR element
for all outstanding awards under the PSP as at 31 December 2009.
The coloured box shows the range of TSR required for 25% vesting
to full vesting, and the diamond shows BAE Systems' TSR. The
proportion that would vest is shown in the boxes at the top of
the chart.
This shows that the March 2007 PSP award lapsed as the Company's
TSR return was below that of the comparator group.
Key features for grants of awards in 2010:
- stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked
to the award under the Annual Incentive Plan;
- participants are granted a conditional award of Matching Shares
against the gross value of the annual incentive invested;
- Matching Shares attract dividends during the three-year deferral
period, released on vesting of any Matching Shares;
- executive directors are required to invest one-third of their 2009
net annual incentive into the SMP; and
- maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net annual incentive.
Match and performance condition
- Nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing
uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth (15% to 33% growth 
over three years).
- Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and
value creation.
SHARE MATCHING PLAN (SMP)
SUMMARY OF TSR PERFORMANCE TO 31 DECEMBER 2009
PERFORMANCE CONDITION - PSP
TSR
Proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by:
(i) the Company's TSR (share price growth plus dividends) ranking
relative to a comparator group of 18 other international defence
and aerospace companies as shown in the table opposite.
None of the shares vest if the Company's TSR is outside the top
50% of TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group and 100%
vest if it is in the top quintile (i.e. top 20%) as set out opposite;
and
(ii) whether there has been a sustained improvement in the
Company's underlying financial performance and whether it is
appropriate to release some or all of the awards. In taking such
a view, the Committee may consider (but not exclusively) the
following financial metrics: net cash/debt; EBITA
1
; order book;
turnover; risk and underlying project performance.
The rationale for TSR performance measures is that major investors
regard TSR as an important indication of both earnings and capital
growth relative to other major companies in the same sector and to
ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement
in the Company' s performance over the relevant period.
0
25
50
75
100
Performance relative to comparator group (percentile)
% of total award vesting
0 102030405060708090 100
PERFORMANCE CONDITION - PSP
TSR
Boeing
Cobham
Dassault Aviation
EADS
Embraer PN
Finmeccanica
General Dynamics
GKN
Goodrich
Honeywell International
Lockheed Martin
Northrop Grumman
Raytheon 
Rockwell Collins
Rolls-Royce
Smiths Group
Thales
United T echnologies
PERFORMANCE CONDITION - SMP 2010
TSR PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Total Shareholder Return (%)
Median to top 20% TSR BAE Systems TSR
0.0% 
vesting
30.5% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
30 March 
2007
15 August and 
19 September
2007
26 March 
2008
8 September 
2008
24 March 
2009
7 September 
2009
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense. 
PSP
TSR
- sectoral peer group DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
102 www.baesystems.com
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
During 2009 the UK executive directors were eligible to participate in the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive Plan. As a result
of the Company' s performance in 2009, all eligible employees (including the UK executive directors) will be entitled to receive shares worth  567. 
A similar arrangement operates for non-UK employees on a cash or shares basis depending on local tax and security laws.
The Company operates a share purchase arrangement (Partnership Shares) under the Share Incentive Plan. Under this arrangement, UK-based
employees (including executive directors) may purchase ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either monthly investments of between  10 and  125 
a month, or lump sum investments of between  10 and  1,500 in a tax year , both limited to 10% of salary if less. The Partnership Shares attract
Matching Shares. As the plan is an all-employee plan, the Matching Shares are not subject to performance conditions in accordance with legislation.
One free matching share is awarded for each Partnership Share up to a maximum of  63 per month. 
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive Plan for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares. 
Share usage for employee share schemes 
The Committee has agreed that, in respect of new issue or treasury
shares, shares representing no more than 1% (and no more than
0.5% for the executive schemes) of the Company' s issued share
capital will be used in any one financial year for the grant of
incentives under all of the Company' s employee share schemes.
The table opposite sets out the available dilution capacity for the
Company' s employee share schemes on this basis. 
The Company currently intends to use new issue shares to satisfy
future share awards under the executive long-term incentive plans
up to the 0.5% annual dilution limit, and to use treasury shares
to satisfy awards of free shares and matching shares under the 
all-employee Share Incentive Plan. For outstanding options it is
intended that new issue shares will be utilised for the Executive
Share Option Plan.
Post-retirement benefits
UK pension benefits
UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme (the ExPS) and members of the underlying employee pension
plans. As such, they are subject to the same contribution rates payable by employees of the underlying plans, and the benefits changes introduced
in 2006 for post-April 2006 service including the introduction of the Longevity Adjustment Factor , a reduction in the maximum level of pension
increases and a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay. 
The ExPS tops up the underlying employee plan to provide a target benefit for executive directors payable from normal retirement age of 1/30th
of Final Pensionable Pay (FPP) for each year of ExPS pensionable service (subject to a maximum of two-thirds of FPP). FPP is defined as base salary
averaged over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service accrued to 5 April 2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect
of service from 6 April 2006. The ExPS also provides a lump sum death-in-service benefit equal to four times base salary at date of death, and a
spouse' s death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds of the prospective pension at normal retirement age. Children' s allowances are also payable,
usually up to the age of 18. Spouses' pensions and children' s allowances are also payable upon death in retirement and death after leaving the
Company' s employment with a deferred pension. Pensions are increased annually by the rise in the Retail Price Index subject to a maximum
increase of 5% per year in respect of pre-6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year in respect of service from 6 April 2006. 
As a result of the 2006 age discrimination legislation, executive directors' default retirement age is 65 but they retain any previous rights they had
to retire and draw their pensions without actuarial reduction for early payment at an earlier age. 
Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006, UK executives
reaching the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) are given a number of choices as previously reported. These are:
- remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax charge; or 
- opt out of the pension scheme (and so earn no further pension benefits in respect of future service) and instead receive a taxable salary
supplement. This supplement will be 30% of salary and 20% of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary target after at least
20 years' and 30 years' service, respectively; or
- restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the remainder being provided directly from the Company as an unfunded promise. 
At retirement, the unfunded Company benefits can be either taken as pension or commuted in full for a taxable lump sum. 
The Committee reviews these arrangements each year in the light of developing market practice and believes they remain appropriate as they
provide executives with competitive pension benefits and choices for dealing with the LTA which may better suit their needs whilst being broadly 
cost neutral to the Company, are in line with market practice and do not compensate executives for changes in taxation. 
Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan (the 2000 Plan), applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic Systems
(MES), and a member of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 62. The 2000 Plan provides a pension of 1/50th of Final Pensionable Earnings
(FPE) for each year of pensionable service, payable from a normal retirement age of 65 and members pay contributions of 8% of Pensionable
Earnings. FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best three-year average of base salary and bonus in the ten Plan Y ears prior to leaving, less an offset for
State pensions. The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006/07 Plan Y ear to 20% of base salary and
to 10% of base salary for the 2007/08 Plan Y ear and thereafter . However , there is a guarantee that the FPE figure for benefits in respect of service
prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees do not lose the benefit of contributions paid on
past bonuses. Ian King joined the ExPS in 1999 following the BAe/MES merger . Therefore Ian King' s total pension is the sum of his 2000 Plan
benefits plus the top up from the ExPS. 
Number of
shares
T otal issued share capital as at 31 December 2009 3,585m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive years 358.5m
Remaining headroom 218.1m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive ten years 179.2m
Remaining headroom 91.2m BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 103
George Rose is a member of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme paying contributions of 9.29% of base salary, and is a member of the ExPS with
a normal retirement age of 60. George Rose was affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap on approved pensions and
has an unapproved (i.e. non-tax qualified) pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved schemes. This was designed so that the
total pension from all sources would be broadly in line with the pension he would have received from the Group pension schemes had he not been
subject to the earnings cap. The Pension Simplification tax changes allowed the flexibility to remove the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of
service from April 2006, although some of his benefits will remain to be provided by means of an unfunded promise from the Company. No further
contributions will be paid into his funded unapproved top up arrangement. 
US pension benefits
Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan which provides a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay (salary plus
bonus subject to a maximum bonus of 150% of salary). For service up to 1 January 2010, the cash sum accrued at the rate of 15% of career
average pay. Following the changes made in 2009, the cash accrual rate from 1 January 2010 will be 14.1% of career average pay. Executive
directors pay contributions at the same rates as other employees in the plan, being 1.5% of earnings. In 2009, Linda Hudson also received a
100% match on her contributions to her 401(k) plan up to a maximum contribution of 6% of earnings. From 1 January 2010, the match will be
85% up to a maximum contribution of 6% of salary.
Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive directors who served during 2009 are shown in T able D on page 111 and are calculated in
accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. 
Other benefits
Other benefits provided to the executive directors include a car allowance, the private use of a chauffeur-driven car and a cash allowance for 
medical examination. 
Executive directors' service contracts
It is the Committee' s policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts that provide for the Company to give the individual
12 months' notice of termination. This policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to retain the services 
of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract. The executive directors have
service contracts with Group companies and details of these are shown below.
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Linda Hudson 26 October 2009 (amended 8 January 2010) Expiry date 31 December 2010* 90 days either party
Ian King 27 June 2008 No fixed term 12 months either party
George Rose 16 November 1998 (amended: 3 December 1999, No fixed term 12 months from the Company,
15 January 2004 and 17 October 2005) 6 months from the individual
* Subject to automatic renewal for one-year periods each year unless either party gives notice of non-renewal.
In the event of the termination of an executive director' s contract it is the Committee' s policy to seek to limit any payment made in lieu of notice to a
payment equal to the amount of one year' s base salary. The service contracts for two of the executive directors (Ian King and George Rose) contain
specific provisions to the effect that the Company has the right to pay a sum equivalent to 12 months' salary in lieu of notice.
Linda Hudson's contract of employment is subject to a fixed term (which ends on 31 December 2010) and automatically renews for one year periods
thereafter unless one party gives notice of non-renewal. Separately , there is a 90-day termination provision. If the employment is (a) terminated by the
Company (other than for cause as defined in the contract or in the event it is not extended following her 65th birthday) or (b) she resigns for a  Good
Reason' (as defined in her contract), she is entitled to a termination payment equal to (i) one year' s base salary , (ii) a pro-rated bonus for the relevant
financial year , and (iii) the continuation of 18 months' medical benefits, plus a further 18 months' subsidy of a portion of the premiums (or a cash
payment in lieu of this benefit).
No executive director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company (and neither does the Chairman
nor the non-executive directors in their letters of appointment).
Walt Havenstein, who resigned as a director on 21 June 2009, had a service contract dated 1 December 2006 with a notice period of three months
from either party, and ceased to be a Group employee on 20 September 2009. Details of his salary package for 2009 were provided in the 2008
Annual Report and are reported in the tables on pages 109 to 111. No termination payments were made to Walt Havenstein, and all outstanding
long-term incentive awards and share options lapsed. 
Policy on external board appointments 
The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold external non-BAE Systems-related non-executive directorships with the prior approval of
the Committee will continue. The Committee considers that external directorships provide the Company' s senior executives with valuable experience
that is of benefit to BAE Systems. It is also considered appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to the pool of non-executive expertise available for the
benefit of the wider business community, thereby reciprocating the benefit that it in turn has received from other organisations which have permitted
members of their senior management teams to serve on the BAE Systems Board. The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual
executive director to retain any fees received from such appointments given the additional personal responsibility that this entails. Such fees retained
by executive directors in 2009 were as follows: Ian King  40,000 and George Rose  79,500. 
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004. His appointment was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from 17 May 2004 (the
date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director) and was subsequently extended in 2007 for a second term of three years to 
16 May 2010. Following the approval of the Board under the chairmanship of Sir Peter Mason, Senior Independent Director , it was extended again
in 2009 for a third term to 16 May 2013 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Articles of Association or with either party giving the
other not less than six months' prior written notice. The Chairman' s appointment is documented in a letter of appointment which is not a contract of
employment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman. His appointment as Chairman will automatically
terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company. His fee, which was set by the Committee at  600,000 per annum for the duration of his
second three-year term, will be subject to review in 2010.
CHAIRMAN'S APPOINTMENT, TERM AND FEES DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
104 www.baesystems.com
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment. The dates of
their original appointment were as follows:
Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term*
Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2012
Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 05.05.2010
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2012
Andy Inglis 13.06.2007 12.06.2010
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2012
Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2011
Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2013
Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2011
Ravi Uppal 02.04.2008 01.04.2011
* Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Company' s Articles of Association. 
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms subject to review after the end of the first three-year period
and with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board. They do not
have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates. They are subject to re-election
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years. Having completed
a three-year term of appointment, Sir Nigel Rudd retired from the Board on 31 December 2009 having originally been appointed to the Board on
10 September 2006. 
Non-executive directors are proposed by the Nominations Committee and are appointed by the Board on the basis of their experience to provide
independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct. 
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors detail the amount of time it is anticipated that the individual will need to devote to his or her
duties as a director , being 15 days per year plus ten additional days for chairing a committee or undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director .
The level of their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee to reflect this time commitment and responsibility , and after reviewing
practice in other comparable companies. Having undertaken its review in January 2010, the Committee decided that the non-executive directors'
fees should remain unchanged at the current time as follows:
2009 and 2010 fee
Base fee  66,000
Additional fee for chairing committees:
Audit Committee  20,000
Corporate Responsibility Committee  20,000
Remuneration Committee  20,000
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director  20,000
T ravel allowance (per meeting)*  4,000
* The travel allowance of  4,000 per meeting is paid on each occasion that a non-executive director' s attendance at a Board meeting necessitates air travel of more than five hours (one-way) to
the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year .
The table below summarises the fee structure for 2009 and 2010. 
Non-executive director 2009 and 2010 fee*
Chairman Audit Committee  86,000
Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee  86,000
Chairman Remuneration Committee  86,000
Senior Independent Director  86,000
Other non-executive directors  66,000
* Excludes the travel allowance of  4,000 per meeting referred to above. 
On behalf of the Board
Dick Olver Chairman 
17 February 2010 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' APPOINTMENT, TERM AND FEES BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 105
As at 1 January 2009* As at 31 December 2009
Executive Share Executive Share
Ordinary Share Matching Performance Ordinary Share Matching Performance
shares Option Plan Plan Share Plan shares Option Plan Plan Share Plan
P M Anderson
1
---- ----
P J Carroll
2
12,000 - - - 12,000 - - -
M J Hartnall 20,000 - - - 20,000 - - -
L P Hudson
3
29,473 133,740 99,908 390,549 29,473 133,740 99,908 390,549
A G Inglis - - - - 10,000 - - -
I G King 497,884 1,270,250 155,821 823,106 678,327 1,132,008 527,437 1,325,953
Sir Peter Mason 25,283 - - - 25,283 - - -
R L Olver 40,000 - - - 40,000 - - -
R Quarta - - - - ----
G W Rose 619,977 484,679 52,286 780,243 806,114 369,554 227,699 951,739
Sir Nigel Rudd
4
11,400 - - - 11,400 - - -
C G Symon - - - - 10,000 - - -
R K Uppal - - - - ----
* or upon appointment.
1 Appointed as a director on 8 October 2009.
2 The ordinary shares held by Phil Carroll are represented by 3,000 American Depositary Shares.
3 Appointed as a director on 26 October 2009.
4 Retired as a director on 31 December 2009.
The table above gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons for those individuals
who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2009. There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors listed in the table
above between 31 December 2009 and 17 February 2010 with the exception of the interests in the ordinary shares of Ian King and George Rose who
have each acquired an additional 105 ordinary shares since 31 December 2009 under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share
Incentive Plan so that their beneficial shareholdings at the date of this report stood at 678,432 and 806,219, respectively . Nick Rose was appointed to
the Board on 8 February 2010. On his appointment, and at the date of this report, his shareholding in BAE Systems was nil; he subsequently acquired
25,000 ordinary shares in BAE Systems on 19 February 2010.
The Company' s register of directors' interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors' share interests.
Information subject to audit
The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in T ables B, C and D on pages 106 to 111.
TABLE A: DIRECTORS' INTERESTS
TABULAR INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS' SHAREHOLDINGS, SHARE-BASED INCENTIVES, EMOLUMENTS AND PENSIONS DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
106 www.baesystems.com
Market
Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise Date of price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise exercise which Expiry
options 2009 year year year 2009   grant or lapse   exercisable date
PSP
TSR
60,535 - 60,535 - - nil 30.03.04 30.03.09 3.26 30.03.09
1,2
-
PSP
TSR
98,624 - 49,311 - 49,313 nil 24.03.05 24.03.09 3.53 24.03.09
1,3
24.03.12
PSP
TSR
96,962 - - 17,163 - nil 12.04.06 03.04.09 - 12.04.09 12.04.13
- - 26,599 - 53,200 nil 12.04.06 15.04.09 3.35 12.04.09
1,4
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
115,973--- 115,973 nil 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
5
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
122,039--- 122,039 nil 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
6
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
122,039--- 122,039 nil 07.05.08 - - 26.03.11
6
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
103,467--- 103,467 nil 08.09.08 - - 08.09.11
6
08.09.15
PSP
EPS
103,467--- 103,467 nil 08.09.08 - - 08.09.11
6
08.09.15
PSP
TSR
- 328,227 - - 328,227 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
PSP
EPS
- 328,228 - - 328,228 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
823,106 656,455 136,445 17,163 1,325,953
ExSOP 138,242 - - 138,242 - 4.21 20.12.99 20.12.09 - 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
ExSOP 318,314--- 318,314 1.72 30.09.03 - - 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
ExSOP 272,388--- 272,388 2.01 30.03.04 - - 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
ExSOP 221,903--- 221,903 2.64 24.03.05 - - 24.03.08
1
24.03.15
ExSOP 145,443--- 145,443 4.28 12.04.06 - - 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 173,960--- 173,960 4.57 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
1
30.03.17
1,270,250 - - 138,242 1,132,008
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the 31 December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2009 year year year 2009   award vesting  
SMP 46,410--- 46,410 4.57 22.03.07 22.03.10
1
-
SMP 109,411--- 109,411 4.86 26.03.08 26.03.11
6
-
SMP - 371,616 - - 371,616 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12
6
-
155,821 371,616 - - 527,437
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 106 and 107.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2  Date exercisable' refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable. 
3 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant. 
4 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable in two tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversary of grant.
5 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
6 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
TABLE B: SHARE OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP) AWARDS - IAN KING
A full description of the PSP is set out on pages 100 and 101. PSP awards granted since 2008 attract dividends prior to vesting.
PSP
TSR
- nil vesting if the Company' s T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) at the end of the three-year performance period is outside the top 50% of
TSRs achieved by a sectoral comparator group; 25% vesting if TSR is at median (50%); and 100% vesting if TSR is in the top 20%, with vesting
on a straight-line basis between these two points.
PSP
EPS
- proportion of the award exercisable is determined by the rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance period, with
nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less, 100% vesting at 11% growth, and vesting on a straight-line basis between these two points.
Awards that satisfy the performance conditions at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three, four and five.
No options have been granted under this Plan since 2007 and it is intended only to be used in future in exceptional circumstances. Options granted
under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of grant. The maximum duration of an option is ten years.
(i) 2005-2007 grants - 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4%
over the three-year performance period; 66.67% for real EPS growth pa of 4% but less than 5%; and 100% for real EPS growth of 5% or more.
(ii) 2004 grant - as in (i) but performance is retested at the end of year five against the full period from grant; and 
(iii) 2003 grant - as in (i) but performance is retested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant.
(iv) 1999 grant (following the BAe/MES merger) under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme: the grant to George Rose was conditional
on the satisfaction of a performance condition based on the achievement of merger integration cost savings over a three-year performance
period; and the grant to Ian King could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period over the ten-year option life
exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and real growth of 9% was achieved.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN (EXSOP)
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (PSP) BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 107
Market
Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise Date of price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise exercise which Expiry
options 2009 year year year 2009   grant or lapse   exercisable date
PSP
TSR
86,832 - 86,832 - - nil 30.09.0331.07.09 3.10 30.09.08
1,2
-
PSP
TSR
76,701 - 76,701 - - nil 30.03.0431.07.09 3.10 30.03.09
1,2
-
PSP
TSR
126,263 - 63,130 - 63,133 nil 24.03.0531.07.09 3.10 24.03.09
1,3
24.03.12
PSP
TSR
123,831 - - 21,919 - nil 12.04.06 03.04.09 - 12.04.09 12.04.13
- - 33,970 - 67,942 nil 12.04.0631.07.09 3.10 12.04.09
1,4
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
122,538--- 122,538 nil 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
5
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
122,039--- 122,039 nil 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
6
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
122,039--- 122,039 nil 07.05.08 - - 26.03.11
6
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
- 227,024 - - 227,024 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
PSP
EPS
- 227,024 - - 227,024 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
780,243 454,048 260,633 21,919 951,739
ExSOP 115,125 - - 115,125 - 4.21 20.12.99 20.12.09 - 20.12.02
1
20.12.09
ExSOP 185,747--- 185,747 4.28 12.04.06 - - 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 183,807--- 183,807 4.57 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
1
30.03.17
484,679 - - 115,125 369,554
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the 31 December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2009 year year year 2009   award vesting  
SMP 52,286--- 52,286 4.86 26.03.08 26.03.11
6
-
SMP - 175,413 - - 175,413 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12
6
-
52,286 175,413 - - 227,699
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 106 and 107.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2  Date exercisable' refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable. 
3 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant. 
4 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable in two tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversary of grant.
5 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
6 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
TABLE B: SHARE OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP) AWARDS - GEORGE ROSE
A full description of the SMP , under which awards are subject to a three-year performance period, is set out on page 101. SMP awards attract
dividends prior to vesting.
2009 award - nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth.
2008 award - nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% pa or less, increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
2007 award - nil vesting for real EPS growth pa of less than 3% over the three-year performance period, with one-third of the matched award vesting
on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4%, two-thirds vesting with a growth rate of 4% but less than 5%, and full vesting at growth of 
5% or over .
Share price information 
The mid-market price for the Company' s ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 359.5p (2008 376.75p). The range during the year was 306p
to 408.25p.
Aggregate amount of gains made by directors
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2009, as calculated at the date of exercise, was
 1,268,104 (2008  6,278,313). The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2009 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated
at the date of vesting, was  247,044 (2008  1,931,858).
Rationale for key performance measures for PSP , ExSOP and SMP
EPS - importance to major investors as a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
TSR (and secondary financial measure) - importance to major investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth relative to major
companies in the same sector , and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement in the Company' s performance over the
relevant period.
SHARE MATCHING PLAN (SMP) - MATCHING SHARES DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
108 www.baesystems.com
Exercised Date of Market
Granted or released Lapsed Exercise exercise, price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of release release which Expiry
options 2009 year year year 2009   grant or lapse   exercisable date
PSP
TSR
89,160--- 89,160 - 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
1
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
45,881--- 45,881 - 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
2
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
45,882--- 45,882 - 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
2
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
- 104,813 - - 104,813 - 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
2
24.03.16
PSP
EPS
- 104,813 - - 104,813 - 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
2
24.03.16
180,923 209,626 - - 390,549
ExSOP 133,740--- 133,740 4.57 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
3
30.03.17
133,740--- 133,740
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed price at date price on
1 January during the during the during the 31 December of award Date of Date of vesting
LTIPs 2009 year year year 2009   award vesting  
SMP - 99,908 - - 99,908 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12
2
-
- 99,908 - - 99,908
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 106 and 107.
1 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
2 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
3 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
Note: Awards granted to Linda Hudson (a US national) under the PSP are technically characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as,
subject to the attainment of the performance condition, they are delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant without the
need to exercise an option. They are shown in the top portion of the table for ease of comparison. 
TABLE B: SHARE OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP) AWARDS - LINDA HUDSON BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 109
Exercised Date of Market
Granted or released Lapsed Exercise exercise, price on Date from
Share 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of release release which Expiry
options 2009 year year year 2009
2
  grant or lapse   exercisable date
PSP
TSR
26,455 - 26,455 - - - 30.03.04 30.03.09 3.23 - -
PSP
TSR
40,423 - 20,211 - - - 24.03.05 24.03.09 3.49 - -
- - - 20,212 - - 24.03.05 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
TSR
6,440 - - 6,440 - - 22.12.05 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
TSR
64,302 - - 11,382 - - 12.04.06 03.04.09 - - -
- - 17,640 - - - 12.04.06 14.04.09 3.26 - -
- - - 35,280 - - 12.04.06 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
TSR
83,543 - - 83,543 - - 30.03.07 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
TSR
115,749 - - 115,749 - - 26.03.08 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
EPS
115,749 - - 115,749 - - 07.05.08 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
TSR
- 241,988 - 241,988 - - 24.03.09 20.09.09 - - -
PSP
EPS
- 241,989 - 241,989 - - 24.03.09 20.09.09 - - -
452,661 483,977 64,306 872,332 -
ExSOP 90,949 - - 90,949 - 2.64 24.03.05 20.09.09 - - -
ExSOP 14,923 - - 14,923 - 3.56 22.12.05 20.09.09 - - -
ExSOP 96,453 - - 96,453 - 4.28 12.04.06 20.09.09 - - -
ExSOP 125,315 - - 125,315 - 4.57 30.03.07 20.09.09 - - -
327,640 - - 327,640 -
Market Market
Granted Vested Lapsed price at date Date of price on
1 January during the during the during the 31 December of award Date of vesting/ vesting
LTIPs 2009 year year year 2009
2
  award lapse  
SMP 18,947 - - 18,947 - 4.57 22.03.07 20.09.09 -
SMP 26,118 - - 26,118 - 4.86 26.03.08 20.09.09 -
SMP - 252,020 - 252,020 - 3.43 24.03.09 20.09.09 -
45,065 252,020 - 297,085 -
RSP 10,249 - 10,249 - - 4.18 12.04.06 14.04.09 3.26
10,249 - 10,249 - -
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 106 and 107, except for the RSP for which the performance condition is set
out below.
1 Resigned as a director on 21 June 2009 and ceased to be a Group employee on 20 September 2009.
2 As at 21 June 2009, the date that Walt Havenstein resigned from the Board, options and awards outstanding totalled 327,640 under ExSOP, 860,950 under the PSP , and 297,085 under 
the SMP .
In addition, Walt Havenstein had a cash-settled Stock Appreciation Right (SAR) over 53,010 ordinary shares granted on 27 November 2000 at a
SAR price of  3.73 exercisable from 27 November 2003 until 27 November 2010. This was exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for
any three-year period over the ten-year life of the SAR exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a growth requirement of 9%, which was met.
The SAR lapsed on 20 September 2009.
The 2004 and 2005 PSP awards and the 2005 ExSOP options granted to Walt Havenstein were granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights
Schedule to those plans. The exercise price referred to for the latter is the SAR price.
The Restricted Share Plan (RSP) was replaced by the SMP in 2007. The matching award of shares under the former RSP was not historically subject
to performance criteria as it was designed to retain key staff and encourage executives to re-invest in Company shares the cash bonuses that they
had earned under the annual bonus plan which was itself subject to performance conditions. 
Note: Awards granted to Walt Havenstein (a US national) under the PSP were technically characterised as long-term incentives rather than options
as, subject to the attainment of the performance condition, they were delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant
without the need to exercise an option. They are shown in the top portion of the table for ease of comparison. Gains on delivered PSP awards for
Walt Havenstein are included in the directors' gains on LTIPs figure on page 107 whilst PSP gains for the UK-based directors are included in the
share option gains figure.
TABLE B: SHARE OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP) AWARDS - WALT HAVENSTEIN
1 DIRECTORS' REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
110 www.baesystems.com
2009 2008
Base Base
salary Fees BonusBenefits Other pay Total salary Fees Bonus Benefits Other pay Total
 '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000
Chairman
R L Olver - 600 - 63 - 663 - 600 - 59 - 659
Executive directors
W P Havenstein
1
294 - - 11 - 305 486 - 1,013 29 - 1,528
L P Hudson
2
105 - 189 9 - 303 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
I G King 900 - 1,680 70 - 2,650 678 - 1,275 169 - 2,122
G W Rose 623 - 755 74 - 1,452 593 - 695 72 - 1,360
M J T urner
3
- - - - 591 591 667 - 1,405 89 1,028 3,189
Non-executive directors
P M Anderson
2
-15 - - 4 19 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P J Carroll -66 - -2490 -63 - -2891
M J Hartnall -86 - - 4 90 -83 - - 8 91
A G Inglis -86 - - 4 90 -73 - - 8 81
Sir Peter Mason -86 - - 4 90 -78 - - 8 86
R Quarta -66 - - 4 70 -63 - - 8 71
Sir Nigel Rudd
4
-81 - - 4 85 -78 - - 8 86
C G Symon
5
-71 - -2495 -35 - -1247
R K Uppal
5
-66 - -2490 -47 - -1259
P A Weinberg
3
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a -27 - -1239
1,922 1,223 2,624 227 687 6,683 2,424 1,147 4,388 418 1,132 9,509
1 Resigned in 2009.
2 Appointed in 2009.
3 Retired in 2008.
4 Retired at the end of 2009.
5 Appointed in 2008.
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed during the year
the amount shown is for the period from appointment. 
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where applicable, the provision of a car allowance, the private use of a 
chauffeur-driven car and spouse attendance at corporate events. The benefits received by the Chairman, Dick Olver , include the private use
of a chauffeur-driven car and spouse attendance at corporate events.
The benefits received by the US-based executive directors include a cash allowance for a car , medical examination, dental benefits and insured
life benefits. In addition, the benefits received by Linda Hudson also include $8,455 ( 5,400) in respect of private use of a Company plane.
Walt Havenstein also received $442,613 ( 282,695) in respect of normal salary and benefits, including a payment for unused holiday, during the
period following his retirement from the Board on 21 June 2009 until he left Group employment on 20 September 2009. No termination payment
was made to Mr Havenstein in respect of his leaving the Board or the Group. 
The other pay received by Mike T urner in 2009 comprised the balance ( 590,625) of the cash element of his special incentive, referred to on page
99 and previously disclosed in the 2008 and 2007 Remuneration reports, which was paid to him in September 2009 following the first anniversary
of his retirement. The special incentive, awarded in October 2007, comprised a contingent cash payment of  1,181,250 and a contingent award of
231,618 shares (attracting reinvested dividends) releasable in two tranches subject to performance conditions which were subsequently satisfied
in full. On 1 September 2009 the balance of the share element of his special incentive was released to him for nil consideration; the number of
shares released comprised the balance (115,809) of the shares under award and 8,241 shares deriving from reinvested dividends. The market
price of the Company' s ordinary shares on 1 September 2009 was 315.6p.
The other pay received by the non-executive directors represents the T ravel Allowance (previously T ransatlantic Allowance) of  4,000 per meeting 
as set out on page 104.
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004. He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship role and ceased to
be an employee on 29 February 2008. He subsequently became a member of the Company' s Home Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia. In 2009
his remuneration was  246,954 (2008  265,480) in respect of consultancy fees for his role as a member of the Home Market Advisory Board for
Saudi Arabia. Sir Richard ceased to be a member of the Advisory Board upon the expiry of his agreed contractual term on 28 February 2010.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the Company pension payments to Sir Richard Lapthorne and Sir Peter
Gershon referred to in the notes to T able D on page 111. 
TABLE C: DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 111
Change in Increase in
Accrued benefit at Increase in accrued pension Transfer value at Transfer value at value less
31 December accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Director's director's
2009
1
benefits for inflation 2009
2
2009 contributions contributions
Age NRA*   pa   pa   pa     
W P Havenstein
3
60 60 175,199 18,728 15,412 1,745,364 1,920,718 2,276 173,078
L P Hudson
4
59 65 347,088 17,638 15,951 229,920 242,180 379 11,881
I G King 53 62 509,944 84,699 75,110 4,672,376 6,780,197 72,000 2,035,821
G W Rose
5
57 60 366,564 35,795 19,256 5,573,907 6,840,222 57,663 1,208,652
* Normal Retirement Age
1 Accrued benefits may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme. In addition,a longevity adjustment factor
applies to uK pension accrued after 5 April 2006.
2 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For uK-based directors the assumptions
are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes. For uS-based directors the assumptions are the same
as those used for accounting disclosures. The amount shown for Linda Hudson is at 26 October 2009. The increase in transfer value arising
from the change in assumptions is: Walt Havenstein:  53,887; Linda Hudson:  (1,858); Ian King:  855,144; George Rose:  429,879.
3 Walt Havenstein resigned from the Board on 21 June 2009,left the Group's employment on 20 September 2009,and subsequently started to
draw his plan benefits as an annual pension. His accrued pension comprises  20,549 from a contributory Qualified Plan and  154,650 from
Non-Qualified Plans. In addition,Walt Havenstein participated in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for uS employees
in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit. In 2009,the Company paid contributions of $11,025 ( 6,829) into this
401(k) arrangement. Walt Havenstein was paid in uS dollars. Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value  (19,782) and
 (216,871),respectively,is due to currency movements.
4 Linda Hudson was appointed to the Board on 26 October 2009 and is a member of a uS retirement plan which provides a cash sum at
retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay. The accrued benefit shown above is a cash lump sum amount payable at normal
retirement age. This benefit comprises  44,379 from a contributory Qualified Plan and  302,709 from Non-Qualified Plans. In addition,
Linda Hudson participates in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for uS employees in which the Company will match
employee contributions up to a limit. The Company paid no contributions to this 401(k) arrangement during the period from 26 October 2009
to 31 December 2009. Linda Hudson is paid in uS dollars. Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value  3,512 and  2,450,
respectively,is due to currency movements.
5 George Rose has an unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 5 April 2006 that is partly funded and partly unfunded.
No company contributions have been made to these arrangements during the year.
Sir Peter Gershon and Sir Richard Lapthorne,both former directors,have unfunded pension arrangements. In 2009,the Company paid Sir Peter
Gershon a pension of  109,230 (in 2008 a cash lump sum of  334,805 and pension of  18,188 was paid) and Sir Richard Lapthorne a pension
of  100,058 (in 2008 a pension of  96,367 was paid) in respect of these arrangements.
TABLE D: POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS