 96 www.baesystems.com
The Remuneration report is structured as follows:
 - Remuneration Committee report Page 96
 - Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee 
report Page 99
 - Remuneration reporting:
 - Remuneration strategy, policy and service 
contracts for executive directors
Pages 100 
to 112
 - Chairman' s appointment, term and fees Page 112
 - Non-executive directors' appointment,  
term and fees Page 113
 - T abular information on directors' 
shareholdings, share-based incentives, 
emoluments and pensions
Pages 114 
to 119
Remuneration Committee report
Members 
Carl Symon (Chairman)  
Roberto Quarta  
Nick Rose 
Responsibilities 
 - Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
executive directors, members of the Executive Committee 
(EC), the Company Secretary and other senior executives. 
 - Within the agreed policy , determining individual remuneration 
packages for the Chairman, executive directors and EC 
members. 
 - Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included  
in service agreements for the Chairman, executive directors, 
EC members, the Company Secretary and other senior 
executives, including termination payments and 
compensation commitments, where applicable. 
 - Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and 
any performance conditions to be used for such schemes. 
 - Determining any share scheme performance targets. 
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee 
can be found on the Company' s website or can be obtained 
from the Company Secretary.
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report
Carl Symon 
Remuneration 
Committee Chairman  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 97
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
Governance 
The members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
directors. 
Dick Olver , the Company' s Chairman (who was deemed to be 
independent on his appointment as Board Chairman on 1  July 
2004), also served as a member of the Committee until 
17  February 2010. Nick Rose was appointed to the Committee 
with effect from 17 February 2010. 
The Chief Executive and the Company' s Chairman, subsequent 
to his resignation from the Committee, attend Committee 
meetings by invitation only. They do not attend where their 
individual remuneration is discussed and no director is involved 
in deciding his own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts 
as secretary to the Committee.
In 2010, the Committee met seven times and details of 
attendance at these meetings are provided in the Corporate 
Governance report on page 86. 
The Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent 
Adviser in 2007 to provide advice to the Committee and its 
individual members on all aspects of the Committee' s remit. 
Kepler Associates will not undertake any work for the Company 
whilst they are retained as the Committee' s Independent 
Adviser . Representatives from Kepler Associates have attended 
each of the Committee meetings during 2010 and will be in 
attendance at all meetings unless specifically requested 
otherwise by the Committee. 
During the year , the Committee also received material 
assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Group' s 
Human Resources Director , Alastair Imrie, and the Human 
Resources Director , Remuneration and Benefits, Graham 
Middleton. Dick Olver , Chairman, and Ian King, Chief Executive, 
also provided advice that was of material assistance to the 
Committee. 
Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters 
who are appointed by the Company, and who also provided 
services to the Company during the year . The Committee is 
satisfied that the services provided to it by Linklaters are of a 
technical nature and did not create any conflict of interest. If a 
conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Committee 
would appoint separate legal advisers from those used by the 
Company. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), who are appointed by the 
Company and also provided services to the Company during the 
year , provided detailed information on market trends and the 
competitive positioning of packages. Hewitt New Bridge Street, 
who are appointed by the Committee, provided advice on the 
total shareholder return figures for assessing the performance 
condition under the Performance Share Plan.
annual timetable of Committee a Ctivities
Directors' and EC 
members' remuneration
Annual bonus Share plans Miscellaneous
Quarter 1 Shareholder consultation 
on remuneration review
Approve remuneration for 
EC members
Review prior year 
performance against 
financial and non-financial 
performance. Where 
applicable, agree bonus 
amounts payable
Set directors' and EC 
members' performance 
targets and objectives for 
current year
Approve Group  
All-Employee Free Shares 
Plan payments
Grant of Spring awards to 
directors and executives
Review Remuneration 
Committee T erms of 
Reference and output of 
the Remuneration 
Committee performance 
evaluation
Review Remuneration 
Report for recommendation 
to the Board
Quarter 2 Review pay review for 
senior executives below  
the EC
Quarter 3 Review directors' actual 
pay and bonus for previous 
year against comparator 
group actuals
Set basis for annual 
remuneration review
Review progress of 
directors' and EC members' 
performance against targets
Grant of Autumn awards to 
directors and executives
Quarter 4 Review market position 
(including pensions)
Set bonus levels and share 
plan grant levels 
Set directors' salaries
Review share-based reward 
considering market trends, 
and review status of 
performance conditions, 
dilution levels and usage 
for following year
Agree grant policy for Spring 
awards
Approve Group All-
Employee Free Shares Plan 
for following year
Review market position of 
package (including 
pensions) for senior 
executives below the EC 98 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
Activities and highlights
BAE Systems is one of the world' s largest and most 
geographically diverse defence and security companies. We 
operate with a clearly defined strategy to deliver sustainable 
growth in value to shareholders, operating in a highly 
technologically complex market, with a presence in five key  
home markets. The Group faces a more challenging trading 
environment as governments look for cost savings to address 
budgetary pressures.
Our remuneration strategy is intended to recognise this 
business environment whilst fostering a T otal Performance 
culture at all levels of the Company, taking into account seniority 
and local market practice. In addition, it reinforces our drive to 
continue to embed high levels of business conduct and our 
commitment to safety across the business.
The Committee is sensitive to the levels of the remuneration 
packages of other employees within the Group. In some areas, 
our workforce is heavily unionised. Many of our employees work 
at the very leading edge of technology. We have a diverse 
workforce operating in many countries. Employee remuneration 
packages are therefore determined locally to meet local needs, 
whilst respecting our culture and Values. In 2010, general salary 
increases for our two largest employee populations in the UK 
and US typically averaged 2.4% and 2.5%, respectively.
In determining the levels of executive reward, the Remuneration 
Committee also continues to place considerable emphasis on 
ensuring a strong link between actual remuneration received, 
and achievement of our strategic and business objectives. 
In 2010, our performance against targets was good. We slightly 
exceeded our profit target, and exceeded our stretch cash 
targets. However , our T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) 
performance reflects the sustained under-performance of our 
share price. Our Earnings per Share (EPS) was 40.5p. We also 
started to experience significant executive retention issues in 
North America.
Against this performance background, the main aspects of our 
remuneration policy and practice for the year were as follows:
 - having been unchanged in 2009, the salaries of the Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director were increased by 3.9% 
and 2.5%, respectively;
 - the salary of the President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc., Linda Hudson, has been increased by 
12.2% to bring her nearer to market median. She was 
appointed in October 2009 having been promoted to that 
position from within the business. In setting her initial salary 
the Remuneration Committee was aware that she would be 
operating at a significantly higher level than was previously the 
case, and, whilst this salary was a clear step-up from her 
previous position, there was scope for future increases to 
bring her closer to market median provided her performance 
merited this. The increase awarded by the Remuneration 
Committee recognises where her initial salary was set in 2009 
and that she is performing on a level which justifies a more 
market competitive package. This salary change was made 
with effect from 1 January 2011; 
 - annual bonus payouts for the executive directors under  
the annual incentive plan ranged from 69.1% to 89.1% of 
maximum;
 - the growth of EPS over the three-year performance period for 
the 2008 awards under the long-term incentive plans was 
approximately 10.6% pa. Consequently:
 - the awards of matching shares granted under the Share 
Matching Plan (SMP) in 2008 vest in full; and
 - of the 50% of the awards of shares granted in Spring 2008 
under the EPS portion of the Performance Share Plan (PSP), 
94.55% vest. 
 - the Company' s TSR for the 50% of awards of shares granted 
in  March 2008 under the TSR portion of the PSP was below 
the median position when compared against the comparator 
group of 18 other defence and aerospace companies, and the 
related awards accordingly lapsed;
 - the structure of our annual incentive and long-term incentives 
were left substantially unchanged (including the  clawback' 
arrangements established last year) (see pages 101 and 108 
for details);
 - we retained the requirement for one-third of executive 
directors' annual incentives (25% for EC members and other 
senior executives) to be compulsorily deferred into the SMP;
 - our requirement for executive directors to build up a 
shareholding of 200% of salary over time, remains unchanged. 
Both the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
comfortably exceed this level; at 31 December 2010, the 
President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 
held shares representing approximately 144% of salary, 
reflecting her more recent appointment; and
 - we are seeking shareholder approval to introduce a Restricted 
Share Plan (see page 102), principally to enable us to address 
key executive retention issues for US-based executives. The 
Plan would permit awards to executives in other countries, but 
specific Remuneration Committee approval will be required on 
each occasion. The President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. will be included in the Plan, but other Board 
members will not be included without further consultation with 
shareholders. 
The Company' s remuneration strategy, policy and details of 
executive remuneration are set out on pages 100 to 112 of this 
report. 
Following the announcement of the retirement of George Rose 
as Group Finance Director , effective 31 March 2011, the 
Committee also agreed the package for Peter Lynas on his 
appointment as Group Finance Director and an executive 
director of BAE  Systems plc, effective 1 April 2011.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 
Carl Symon  
Remuneration Committee Chairman  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 99
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
Governance 
The Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee has delegated 
authority from the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive 
directors on its behalf. 
Activities 
The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by 
the Committee when discharging its responsibilities: 
 - fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with 
the necessary skills, experience and knowledge required to 
ensure that the Board is able to discharge its duties 
effectively; 
 - in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount 
of time individual non-executive directors are required to 
devote to their duties, and also the scale and complexity of the 
business, and the responsibility involved; 
 - fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash 
and shall not be performance-related; and 
 - non-executive directors shall not participate in the Company' s 
share-based incentive schemes or pension scheme. 
The Committee meets each year to consider the fees paid to the 
non-executive directors. Having reviewed the increasing time 
commitments expected of non-executive directors and the 
market competitive positioning of existing fee levels, the 
Committee agreed in January 2011 to increase the basic fee 
from  66,000 to  75,000 per annum. All other fees remain 
unchanged as detailed on page 113. 
On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee 
Dick Olver  
Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee Chairman
Non-Executive Directors' Fees  
Committee report
Members 
Dick Olver (Chairman)  
Philip Bramwell  
Linda Hudson  
Ian King 
Responsibilities 
 - Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors 
(excluding the Chairman) and making changes to such  
fees as deemed appropriate.
Dick Olver
Non-Executive Directors'  
Fees Committee 
Chairman 100 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
Appointment of new Group Finance Director
The Company announced on 10 December 2010 that George Rose would be retiring as Group Finance Director with effect from 
31  March 2011 and that Peter Lynas would be appointed as Group Finance Director with effect from 1 April 2011. The salary 
packages for both George Rose, the outgoing Group Finance Director , which had been agreed as part of the 2010 remuneration 
review, and for Peter Lynas, the incoming Group Finance Director , which was agreed by the Committee subsequent to the 2010 
remuneration review, are included in this report.
RemuneRation stRategy
The Company' s remuneration strategy is to provide a 
remuneration package that:
 - helps to attract, retain and motivate;
 - is aligned to shareholders' interests;
 - is competitive against the appropriate market;
 - encourages and supports a T otal Performance culture 
aligned to the achievement of the Company' s strategic 
objectives;
 - is fair and transparent; and
 - can be applied consistently throughout the Group.
RemuneRation PoliCy
T o achieve the strategy, the remuneration policy for executive 
directors and EC members is to:
 - set base salary at around median of the relevant market 
competitive level;
 - reward stretching superior performance with upper quartile 
reward; 
 - provide an appropriate balance between: 
 - short-term and long-term reward; and
 - fixed and variable reward
with the balance becoming more long term and more highly 
geared with seniority;
 - directly align short-term and long-term reward through 
compulsory deferral of annual incentive into the Share 
Matching Plan; and
 - provide a competitive package of benefits.
Remuneration strategy, policy and packages 
Following the annual review in November 2010, the Committee concluded that the current remuneration strategy remains 
generally appropriate, but the following changes have been introduced:
 - to further emphasise the importance of business growth, order intake is being incorporated as one of the financial elements in 
the annual incentive plan targets (see page 101). Other elements of the Plan remain unchanged; and
 - to address retention issues principally in our North American business, shareholder approval is being sought at the AGM to 
implement a Restricted Share Plan (see page 102).
Other than these changes, the Committee intends to continue with the executive remuneration policy as detailed in this report in 
2011 and subsequent years for executive directors and EC members, and this policy will be flowed down to the most senior 
executives within the Group globally (approximately 280) to create a consistent global approach to reward. The principles of the 
remuneration strategy are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of seniority and local market 
practice. 
The Committee will continue to consult on material changes with principal shareholders. 
The Committee has considered the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement regarding remuneration incentives being 
compatible with risk policies and systems, and is satisfied that the Company is well placed to meet this requirement as profit 
recognition on long-term programmes is intrinsically linked to risk reduction.
elements of Pa Ckage
Base salary
Annual incentive 
Share Matching Plan 
 
Performance Share Plan 
Restricted Share Plan 
Pension provision 
Other benefits 
Global all-employee incentive plan 
PuRPose
Recognise market value of role and individual' s skills, experience and performance.
Drive and reward annual performance of individuals, teams and the Company on both 
financial and non-financial metrics, including behaviours.
Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual 
incentive into shares, and drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS 
performance through co-investment aligned to the interests of shareholders. 
Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and TSR performance aligned 
to the interests of shareholders.
Provide long-term reward and address retention issues, through time-vesting awards 
principally in the Company' s US market.
Provide competitive retirement benefits which reward long-term performance through 
seniority, and loyalty through long service.
Provide competitive cost effective benefits package through leveraging the 
Company' s size and scale.
Reward all employees globally for Group performance, encouraging employee share 
ownership aligned to the interests of shareholders.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 101
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
2010 remuneration review 
The 2010 review not only considered the Company' s executive remuneration packages against the market, but also the Company' s 
performance to date and its corporate strategy for the next five years. 
Information on the market for comparable management positions was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as 
to where to position the various elements of the package relative to comparable companies. 
The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator groups for the individual positions, taking account of company size, 
scale of operations and breadth of role. The comparator group for the UK executive directors comprised the FTSE 50 companies 
(excluding financial services and retail) with market capitalisation nearest to that of BAE Systems. The Committee believes that 
using market capitalisation creates alignment between the value placed on the Company and the value placed on the executives who 
manage it. The six largest companies were also excluded as were several others to arrive at a comparator group of 20 companies 
(11 larger and 9 smaller) which the Committee believed appropriate for benchmarking UK executive directors' packages. 
For the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc., the comparator group was drawn from companies in the US 
aerospace, defence and general industry sector , adjusted as appropriate, to produce market figures consistent with the size, scale 
and relative independence of the US business, and adjusting where necessary to reflect the extra responsibility for her plc Board role. 
The base salary, total cash reward (base salary plus annual incentive), total direct reward (total cash reward plus long-term 
incentives) and total reward (total direct reward plus pension) were analysed at the lower quartile, median and upper quartile for the 
relevant posts in the comparator group companies. This gives the Committee a view on the competitiveness of the individual 
elements of the package as well as the package as a whole. 
The Committee also reviewed market trends around the individual elements of remuneration to ensure that the structure of the 
package stays in line with market practice. The remuneration structure overall also takes account of the performance of the 
individual, the Company as a whole, and the pay and conditions of Group employees. 
Overall, while the review indicated that the structure is broadly in line with the market, some minor adjustments were deemed 
necessary to ensure that it remained so. In addition, the base salaries for both the Chief Executive and the President and Chief 
Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. were behind their respective benchmarks. 
Base salary
The Committee reviewed base salaries, taking into account the current economic climate, the challenges facing the business, their 
respective positions against benchmark, the pay environment for employees in general and that their salaries had been unchanged 
since 2009. In particular , the salary of the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. has been increased to 
maintain the competitiveness of the package and bring her salary closer to market median. Further information on the rationale for 
this increase is provided on page 98.
The annual base salary levels of executive directors with effect from 1 January 2011 are as follows:
Name 2010 salary 2011 salary Increase
Ian King  900,000  935,000 3.9%
George Rose  622,500  638,000 2.5%
Linda Hudson $900,000 $1,010,000 12.2%
Incentives 
The Group' s strategy is set out on page 14 along with the Group Strategic Framework. This explains how the Group' s mission is  
to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through its commitment to T otal Performance - Customer Focus, Programme 
Execution, Financial Performance and Responsible Behaviour . Underpinning the drive for T otal Performance are the Group' s Values 
- T rusted, Innovative and Bold. The Group' s strategy focuses on delivering growth in the three market segments of Services, 
Electronic Systems and Platforms, in existing and new home markets, and in export markets. The six Strategic Actions, which 
translate the strategy into operational plans, are underpinned by the Integrated Business Plan (IBP), which sets out a five-year 
strategic and financial plan. 
Each year , the Board agrees the Executive Committee' s top ten objectives which are those key to delivering the Group' s strategy.  
For 2011, these are set out on page 13, and are used as the basis to set the individual objectives for the executive directors and  
EC members which are agreed by the Chairman, Dick Olver , and the Committee. These then flow down to the senior leadership 
team to ensure that all businesses within the Group are aligned with the overall Group strategy. 
The remuneration strategy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Group' s 
strategy through the combination of short-term incentives targeted at business performance, Group performance, personal 
performance and leadership behaviours, and long-term incentives targeted at Group performance. T o directly align short-term and 
long-term reward, executive directors will be required to invest at least one-third of their net 2011 annual incentive into the SMP 
when the annual incentive is paid in 2012. Further investment can be made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum investment of 
half their net annual incentive, except in the case of the US executive director who will participate in the Restricted Share Plan 
subject to its approval by shareholders at the 2011 AGM (further detail is provided on page 102). 
Annual incentive plan 
The annual incentives for 2011 continue to focus on a combination of in-year financial performance, and longer-term performance 
and risk management (both business risk and reputation risk). T wo-thirds is driven off in-year financial performance, and one-third 
based on driving performance and improvement in business conduct and safety (reinforcing the importance of key aspects of the 
Group' s corporate responsibility agenda) combined with the other non-financial objectives supporting the Group' s strategy. No 
changes to this structure are proposed for 2011. 102 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
The financial targets are derived from the IBP , and are based on earnings and cash targets and, for 2011, also order intake. The 
relative proportions of the financial targets for profit, cash and order intake are 40:40:20. These are seen as the key indicators of 
both short-term and long-term financial performance and value creation, and are supported by the Company' s major shareholders. 
At Group level, EPS is used whereas EBITA
1
 is used to measure earnings performance at a business level. T o incentivise improved 
phasing of cash generation throughout the year , a combination of year-end and average quarterly net cash/debt was introduced  
for 2009 and 2010, and will continue for 2011. Due to the stretching nature of the plan, the Committee introduced for 2010 a 
threshold paying 20% of maximum for the profit element. This will continue for 2011. The payout for on-target performance is 50% 
of maximum. Payout for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
The table below summarises the overall structure of the annual incentives for executive directors. 
Performance measure
Proportion of annual incentive
2010 2011
In-year financial 66.6% 66.7%
Business conduct and safety 15.0% 15.0%
Other objectives 18.4% 18.3%
The Committee believes that the annual incentive targets for the executive directors are stretching but achievable. The structure of 
the 2011 annual incentive plan for executive directors is summarised in their individual sections on pages 103 to 106. 
Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs) 
The Company operates two LTIPs (having ceased awards of share options in 2008) - the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the 
Share Matching Plan (SMP). The structure of these plans remain unchanged. Full details of the PSP and SMP are contained on 
pages 108 and 109. 
The combination of the annual incentive plan, SMP and PSP provides a balance between short-term cash reward and longer-term 
share-based reward as shown below. The proportion of the incentive package delivered through longer-term performance is 
significantly higher at stretch payout than at on-target payout, demonstrating that the package supports the achievement of 
superior long-term performance and strongly aligns the interests of executives to those of shareholders through long-term reward 
being delivered in shares. The second graph shows which performance metrics are driving the value of the incentives. This shows 
that, at on-target performance, the higher influence of the annual incentive means that in-year measures drive almost 40% of the 
package value, with long-term EPS (which underpins the SMP and half the PSP awards) accounting for a similar proportion. But, at 
stretch performance, the influence of the annual incentive is reduced, and the SMP and PSP account between them for nearly 
three-quarters of the value of the incentive package, with the most important drivers of value becoming long-term EPS and share 
price. This shows that achieving strong performance on the in-year measures is important but, to maximise the value of their 
incentive package, executives need to drive growth in long-term EPS and share price.
Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
PROPORTION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S INCENTIVE PACKAGE 
DELIVERED BY THE VARIOUS INCENTIVE PLANS (%)
Proportion of incentive package (%)
In-year measures Long-term EPS Relative TSR Share price
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
PERFORMANCE DRIVERS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S 
INCENTIVE PACKAGE (%)
Proportion of incentive package (%)
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Within the Company' s US peer group, our research indicates that performance-based LTIP awards only typically make up around a 
third of the overall long-term incentive package for a US executive. In comparison, the BAE Systems LTIP plans are 100% based on 
performance conditions, which provides much less retention value for senior US executives and can be  bought out' by a competitor 
for a small cost. 
Our US business is a fundamentally important part of the Group, and it is essential we are able to attract and retain high calibre 
staff. We do not wish to provide a completely different reward structure in the US compared to our global approach; nor will we 
increase the overall value of the Inc. reward package. However , the retention issue is sufficiently serious and potentially damaging 
to the business to require action.
Consequently, the Committee is proposing to introduce a time-vesting LTIP element within the overall US executive package. This 
will be achieved by introducing a Restricted Share Plan (RSP) without performance conditions other than time vesting. The 
Restricted Share Plan will provide 35% of the expected value of the total LTIP package, and will vest after three years. This Plan  
will require the approval of shareholders at the AGM in May 2011.
The expected value of the total LTIP package for US executives including the RSP will be maintained at its current level. Subject to 
shareholder approval of the RSP , this will be achieved by reducing existing LTIP award levels for participants as follows:
 - removing the voluntary matching element of the SMP . This will apply to voluntary investment in the SMP in respect of the 2010 
annual incentive plan payment, and onwards; and 
 - reducing overall PSP award levels. 
Subject to shareholder approval, participants' awards of restricted stock will be confirmed after the AGM.
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 103
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
Whilst the Plan is primarily aimed at our US executives, the Plan would permit awards to executives in other countries, but specific 
Remuneration Committee approval will be required on each occasion. The President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, 
Inc. will be included in the Plan, but other Board members will not be included without further consultation with shareholders. 
Personal shareholding policy 
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal 
shareholding equal to 200% of base salary. As a minimum, a holding equal to 100% of base salary must be achieved as quickly as 
possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option schemes or long-term incentive schemes,  
by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% of the options which are exercised on each occasion. Thereafter , executive directors 
are required to increase their personal shareholding gradually, on each occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% of the 
options exercised each year , until a personal shareholding equal to 200% of annual base salary is achieved and maintained. These 
limits are reviewed periodically. A similar arrangement applies to senior executives eligible for share-based long-term incentives 
with limits aligned to the levels of awards made under these plans. 
Details of the directors' personal shareholdings are shown in T able A on page 114.
Pension provision 
No changes to the pension arrangements for executive directors were made in 2010. A review of UK executive pension 
arrangements has been undertaken in the light of the changes announced to the taxation of members of UK registered pension 
arrangements from 6 April 2011. The underlying principles for this review were that the aggregate level of benefits provided to 
members under the new arrangements should be cost neutral to the Company compared to the existing arrangements. The 
approach addresses tax inefficiencies arising for existing employees as a consequence of the pensions tax changes, and members 
will be given the choice to remain in the current arrangements and pay the increased tax. Further detail is provided on page 111.
stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs' Pa Ckages
Ian King (Chief Executive)
2011 2010
Base salary  935,000 pa  900,000 pa
Annual incentive Maximum/on-target (% of salary) 225%/112.5% 
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch On-target Stretch
Group EPS 30% 60% 36% 90%
Group cash 30% 60% 24% 60%
Order intake 15% 30% Not applicable
Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875%
Business conduct Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875%
Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 41.25%
Deferral into SMP
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50%  
of net annual incentive
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa 
PSP Grant (% of salary) 250%
Performance condition
1
/ 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global  
aerospace and defence companies, and  
1
/ 2 on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
Pension accrual 1/30th of three-year final average salary from age 62  
for 8% member' s contributions
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package 
delivered through fixed and variable reward.
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
 0  2,000  4,000  6,000  8,000  10,000  12,000  14,000
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
VALUE OF PACKAGE ( '000)
Value of package ( '000)
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH 
FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Proportion of overall package (%) 104 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs' Pa Ckages continued
George Rose (Group Finance Director)
2011* 2010
Base salary  638,000 pa  622,500 pa
Annual incentive Maximum/on-target (% of salary) 150%/75% 
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch On-target Stretch
Group EPS 20% 40% 24% 60%
Group cash 20% 40% 16% 40%
Order intake 10% 20% Not applicable
Safety Up to 11.25% Up to 11.25%
Business conduct Up to 11.25% Up to 11.25%
Other objectives Up to 27.5% Up to 27.5%
Deferral into SMP
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50%  
of net annual incentive
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa 
PSP Grant (% of salary) 250%
Performance condition
1
/ 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global  
aerospace and defence companies, and  
1
/ 2 on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
Pension accrual 1/30th of three-year final average salary from age 60  
for 9.29% member' s contributions
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package 
delivered through fixed and variable reward.
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
 0  1,000  2,000  3,000  4,000  5,000  6,000  7,000
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
VALUE OF PACKAGE ( '000)
Value of package ( '000)
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH 
FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Proportion of overall package (%)
* As announced by the Company on 10 December 2010, George Rose will retire with effect from 31 March 2011. The 2011 salary package details and graphs above set out the position had he 
continued in his role throughout 2011. Details of his retirement arrangements are provided on page 112.   BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 105
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs' Pa Ckages continued
Linda Hudson (President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.)
2011 2010
Base salary $1,010,000 pa $900,000 pa
Annual incentive Maximum/on-target (% of salary) 225%/112.5% 
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch On-target Stretch
Group EPS 10% 20% 12% 30%
Group cash 10% 20% 8% 20%
Order intake 5% 10% Not applicable
Business EBITA
1
20% 40% 24% 60%
Business cash 20% 40% 16% 40%
Business order intake 10% 20% Not applicable
Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875%
Business conduct Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875%
Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 41.25%
Deferral into SMP Compulsory 
1
/ 3 of net annual 
incentive. No voluntary 
element
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary 
up to total of 50%  
of net annual incentive*
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa 
PSP Grant (% of salary) 160% 250%
Performance condition
1
/ 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global  
aerospace and defence companies, and  
1
/ 2 on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
RSP % of salary 65% Not applicable
Pension accrual Cash sum at retirement of 14.1% of career pay  
(salary plus bonus up to maximum of 150% of salary)  
for a contribution of 1.5% of pay,  
plus an 85% Company 401(k) match on contributions  
to a maximum of 6% of salary
* Linda Hudson will be granted an award under the RSP in 2011, subject to shareholder approval of the RSP at the 2011 AGM, and will thus not be permitted to make any voluntary investment in 
the SMP in 2011 in relation to her 2010 net annual incentive payment.
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package 
delivered through fixed and variable reward.
 
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP RSP
$0 $2,000 $4,000 $6,000 $8,000 $10,000 $12,000
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
VALUE OF PACKAGE ($'000)
Value of package ($'000)
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP RSP
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH 
FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Proportion of overall package (%)
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense. 106 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs' Pa Ckages continued
Peter Lynas (Group Finance Director designate)
Effective 1 April 2011
Base salary  520,000 pa
Annual incentive On-target/maximum (% of salary) 75%/150%
Structure (% of salary) On-target Stretch
Group EPS 20% 40%
Group cash 20% 40%
Order intake 10% 20%
Safety Up to 11.25%
Business conduct Up to 11.25%
Other objectives Up to 27.5%
Deferral into SMP
1
/ 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50%  
of net annual incentive
SMP Gross match 2:1
Performance condition EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
PSP Grant (% of salary) 250%
Performance condition
1
/ 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global  
aerospace and defence companies, and  
1
/ 2 on EPS growth of 5% - 11% pa
Pension accrual 1/30th of three-year final average salary from age 62  
for 8% member's contributions
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package 
delivered through fixed and variable reward as if Peter Lynas had been in post as Group Finance Director with effect from 
1 January 2011.
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
 0  1,000  2,000  3,000  4,000  5,000  6,000
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
VALUE OF PACKAGE ( '000)
Value of package ( '000)
Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP
0 20 40 60 80 100
On-target
performance
Stretch
performance
PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH 
FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD (%)
Proportion of overall package (%)  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 107
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
Performance in 2010 
The structure of the 2010 annual incentive plan was set out in last year' s Remuneration report and is summarised in the individual 
sections for each of the executive directors on pages 103 to 106 of this report.
Financial performance: 2010 was a robust year in terms of financial performance following the Group' s strong performance of 
recent years. At the Group level, EPS performance was above threshold, but well short of stretch performance. Stretch performance 
was achieved on both cash targets. At the operating group level, Programmes & Support exceeded its profit target but did not hit its 
stretch target, and achieved its stretch cash targets. International and BAE Systems, Inc. achieved stretch on all their financial 
targets.
Non-financial performance: Page 12 sets out the Executive Committee' s top ten objectives for 2010 and the assessment of 
performance against these, whilst page 46 provides more detailed information on the performance against the specific objectives 
relating to business conduct and safety. 
business conduct: The Group targeted the successful implementation of the suite of revised policies and processes which had 
been updated as part of the Woolf implementation programme. All businesses are on target with their stated plans. 
safety: The Group has continued to drive improvement of safety management, using its Safety Maturity Matrix (SMM) as the 
mechanism to measure and drive performance. Sites with more than 150 personnel (other than those acquired during 2010) have 
now progressed to Level 4 on the SMM. In addition, the Group achieved an overall 31% reduction in the Lost Work Day Case Rate, 
exceeding a target 20% reduction, compared with performance during 2009. Some individual businesses did not achieve this target. 
other objectives: Of the remaining top ten Group objectives most have been successfully achieved, giving a result of 90% of 
maximum. This sets the starting point with further adjustment, up or down, depending on the assessment of overall performance 
and leadership behavioural performance of the individual executive.
Accordingly, the Committee determined the payout under the 2010 annual incentive plan as follows: 
2010 annual incentive payout Ian King Linda Hudson George Rose
% of stretch 71.0% 89.1% 69.1%
% of base salary 159.7% 200.5% 103.7%
Amount  1,437,075 $1,804,275  645,533
In addition: 
 - the growth in EPS over the three years to 2010 was approximately 10.6% pa. Consequently:
 - the awards of matching shares granted under the SMP in 2008 vest in full; and
 - of the 50% of the awards of shares granted in Spring 2008 under the EPS portion of the PSP , 94.55% vest.
 - the Company' s TSR for the 50% of awards of shares granted in March 2008 under the TSR portion of the PSP was below the 
median position when compared against the comparator group of 18 other defence and aerospace companies, and the related 
awards accordingly lapsed.
BAE Systems FTSE 100
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 OF  100 INVESTMENT 
AT 31 DECEMBER 2005 ( )
 
This graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, 
shows the value by 31 December 2010, on a total shareholder return basis, of  100 invested in 
BAE Systems on 31 December 2005 compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE 100 
index. The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a 
broad equity index. As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to 
be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
BAE Systems
UK executive director pay review comparator group FTSE 100
Aerospace and defence comparator group
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 OF  100 INVESTMENT ( )
 0
 50
 100
 150
 200
 
 
The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment in 
BAE  Systems over recent years as compared to (i) the FTSE 100 index; (ii) the companies 
forming the sectoral peer group for the Performance Share Plan; and (iii) the companies forming 
the comparator pay group for the 2010 executive pay review. The graph depicts the value for 
BAE  Systems and the comparators at the end of 2010 of a single  100 investment made at the 
beginning of each of the last five years. Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
108 www.baesystems.com
Summary of Long-Term Incentive Plans
Plan provisions 
Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2011 
are detailed below. Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2011 are detailed on pages 115 and 116. 
Clawback arrangements operate in respect of these two plans from the 2010 awards onwards. The arrangements are intended to 
cover situations, for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executive' s 
employment can be terminated for cause. 
PeRfoRmanCe shaRe Plan (PsP)
Key features for PSP awards in 2011: 
 - awards of shares are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant; 
 - the shares are subject to satisfaction of three-year performance conditions; 
 - half the PSP award will be based on a T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance condition (PSP
TSR
) and the other half on an 
Earnings per Share (PSP
EPS
) performance condition; 
 - in addition, there is a further test on the PSP
TSR
 element to ensure that the TSR performance is supported by the underlying 
performance of the Company; 
 - shares under award after satisfaction of the performance condition vest in three equal tranches at the end of years three, four 
and five; and 
 - shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting. 
how the PsP oPeRates
50% of award based on TSR 
growth relative to a sectoral comparator 
group of companies over the three-year
performance period, subject to a 
secondary nancial measure
PSP 
award
50% of award based on actual 
annual EPS growth over the 
three-year performance period
PSP award 
paid in shares
(amount varying
according to
performance
achieved)
One-third available immediately 
at the end of year three
The second third available 
at the end of year four
The nal 
third available 
at the end of 
year ve
Year 
3
Year 
4
Year 
6
Year 
5
Year 
7
Year 
1
Year 
0
Year 
2
Year 
3
For the US executives, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three, four and ve, subject to the performance condition achieved.
PeRfoRmanCe Condition - PsP
ePs
The proportion of the award capable of exercise is determined 
by the rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year 
performance period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth 
of 5% and 100% vesting at 11% growth as set out opposite (15% 
to 33% growth over three years). 
The rationale for the EPS performance measure is that major 
investors consider EPS to be a key indicator of long-term 
financial performance and value creation. 
Summary of EPS performance to 31 December 2010
2010 EPS was 40.5p, and is approximately 10.6% greater (per 
annum) than the 2007 EPS of 30.7p. This is near the top of the 
performance range of 5% to 11% growth per annum. Accordingly, 
94.55% of the EPS portion of the Spring 2008 PSP awards vest.
0
25
50
75
100
Annual actual EPS growth (%)
% of total award vesting
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
 BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 109
PeRfoRmanCe Condition - PsP
tsR
The proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by: 
(i)  the Company' s TSR (share price growth plus dividends) 
ranking relative to a comparator group of 18 other 
international defence and aerospace companies as shown in 
the table opposite. There has been no change to the 
comparator group. None of the shares vest if the Company' s 
TSR is outside the top 50% of TSRs achieved by the sectoral 
comparator group and 100% vest if it is in the top quintile  
(i.e. top 20%) as set out opposite; and 
(ii)  whether there has been a sustained improvement in the 
Company' s underlying financial performance and whether it is 
appropriate to release some or all of the awards. In taking 
such a view, the Committee may consider (but not exclusively) 
the following financial metrics: net cash/debt; EBITA
1
; order 
book; turnover; risk; and underlying project performance. 
The rationale for TSR performance measures is that major 
investors regard TSR as an important indication of both 
earnings and capital growth relative to other major companies in 
the same sector and to ensure that awards only vest if there has 
been a clear improvement in the Company' s performance over 
the relevant period. 
PSP
TSR
 - sectoral peer group
Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon
Cobham GKN Rockwell Collins
Dassault Aviation Goodrich Rolls-Royce
EADS Honeywell International Smiths Group
Embraer PN Lockheed Martin Thales
Finmeccanica Northrop Grumman United T echnologies
PeRfoRmanCe Condition - PsP
tsR
0
25
50
75
100
Performance relative to comparator group (percentile)
% of total award vesting
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
summaR y of tsR PeRfoRmanCe to 31 deCembeR 2010
The chart opposite summarises the position on the TSR 
element for all outstanding awards under the PSP as at 
31  December 2010. 
The coloured box shows the range of TSR required for 25% 
vesting to full vesting, and the diamond shows BAE Systems' 
TSR. The proportion that would vest is shown in the boxes at the 
top of the chart. 
This shows that the TSR portion of the 2008 PSP award lapsed 
as the Company' s TSR return was below that of the comparator 
group. 
-50
-25
0
25
50
75
100
Total Shareholder Return (%)
Median to top 20% TSR BAE Systems' TSR
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
0.0% 
vesting
26 March 
2008
2 April 
2008
8 September 
2008
10 November 
2008
23 March 
2010
24 March 
2009
7 September 
2010
7 September 
2009
TSR PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
shaRe matChing Plan (smP) 
Key features for grants of awards in 2011: 
 - stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked 
to the award under the annual incentive plan; 
 - participants are granted a conditional award of matching shares 
against the gross value of the annual incentive invested;
 - matching shares attract dividends during the three-year 
deferral period, released on vesting of any matching shares; 
 - executive directors are required to invest one-third of their 
2010 net annual incentive into the SMP; and
 - maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net annual 
incentive. 
Match and performance condition 
 - Nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% per annum (with nil 
vesting below that level) increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 
11% per annum growth (15% to 33% growth over three years). 
 - Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider 
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance 
and value creation. 
PeRfoRmanCe Condition - smP 2011
0
1:1
2:1
Annual EPS growth (%)
Match
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
2008 SMP award
The 2008 SMP awards were based on nil match for actual EPS 
growth of 5% per annum increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match at 
8% per annum growth. 2010 EPS was 40.5p, and is 
approximately 10.6% greater (per annum) than the 2007 EPS  
of 30.7p. Accordingly, the 2008 SMP award vests in full. 
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.  Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
110 www.baesystems.com
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)*
Key features of awards in 2011:
 - conditional awards of shares are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant;
 - the shares are subject only to the condition that the participant remains employed by the Group at the end of the vesting date 
(three years after the award date); and 
 - shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
The RSP is not subject to a performance condition as it is designed to address retention issues principally in the US, as detailed on 
page 102. Clawback arrangements will operate in respect of this Plan.
* Introduction of the RSP is subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) 
During 2010, the UK executive directors were eligible to participate in the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive 
Plan. As a result of the Company' s performance in 2010, all eligible employees (including the UK executive directors) will be entitled 
to receive shares worth  391.50. A similar arrangement operates for non-UK employees on a cash or shares basis depending on 
local tax and security laws. 
The Company operates a share purchase arrangement (Partnership Shares) under the Share Incentive Plan. Under this 
arrangement, UK-based employees (including executive directors) may purchase ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either monthly 
investments of between  10 and  125 a month, or lump sum investments of between  10 and  1,500 in a tax year , both limited to 
10% of salary if less. The Partnership Shares attract matching shares. As the plan is an all-employee plan, the matching shares are 
not subject to performance conditions in accordance with legislation. One free matching share is awarded for each Partnership 
Share up to a maximum of  63 per month. 
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive Plan for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
 
Share usage for employee share schemes 
The Committee has agreed that, in respect of new issue or 
treasury shares, shares representing no more than 1% (and no 
more than 0.5% for the executive schemes) of the Company' s 
issued share capital will be used in any one financial year for 
the  grant of incentives under all of the Company' s employee 
share schemes. The table opposite sets out the available 
dilution capacity for the Company' s employee share schemes 
on  this basis. 
The Company currently intends to use new issue shares to 
satisfy future share awards under the executive long-term 
incentive plans up to the 0.5% annual dilution limit, and to use 
treasury shares to satisfy awards of free shares and matching 
shares under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan. For 
outstanding options it is intended that new issue shares will 
be  utilised for the Executive Share Option Plan. 
Number  
of shares
T otal issued share capital as at 31 December 2010 3,587m
All schemes:
10% in any consecutive years 358.7m
Remaining headroom 212.8m
Executive schemes:
5% in any consecutive ten years 179.4m
Remaining headroom 90.6m
Post-retirement benefits 
uk pension benefits 
UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme (the ExPS) and members of the underlying 
employee pension plans. As such, they are subject to the same contribution rates payable by employees of the underlying plans, 
and the benefit changes introduced in 2006 for post-April 2006 service including the introduction of the Longevity Adjustment 
Factor , a reduction in the maximum level of pension increases and a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay. 
The ExPS tops up the underlying employee plan to provide a target benefit for executive directors payable from normal retirement 
age of 1/30th of Final Pensionable Pay (FPP) for each year of ExPS pensionable service (subject to a maximum of two-thirds of FPP). 
FPP is defined as annual base salary averaged over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service accrued to 5 
April 2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect of service from 6 April 2006. The ExPS also provides a lump sum death-in-
service benefit equal to four times base salary at date of death, and a spouse' s death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds of the 
prospective pension at normal retirement age. Children' s allowances are also payable, usually up to the age of 18. Spouses' 
pensions and children' s allowances are also payable upon death in retirement and death after leaving the Company' s employment 
with a deferred pension. Once in payment, pensions are increased annually by the rise in the Retail Price Index subject to a 
maximum increase of 5% per year in respect of pre-6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year in respect of service from 6 April 2006. 
As a result of the 2006 age discrimination legislation, executive directors' default retirement age is 65 but they retain any previous 
rights they had to retire and draw their pensions without actuarial reduction for early payment at an earlier age. 
Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006, UK 
executives reaching the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) were given a number of choices as previously reported. These were: 
 - remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax charge; or 
 - opt out of the pension scheme (and so earn no further pension benefits in respect of future service) and instead receive a taxable 
salary supplement. This supplement will be 30% of salary and 20% of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary 
target after at least 20 years' and 30 years' service, respectively; or   BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 111
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
 - restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the remainder being provided directly from the Company as an unfunded 
promise. At retirement, the unfunded Company benefits can be either taken as pension or commuted in full for a taxable lump sum. 
The Committee reviews these arrangements each year in the light of developing market practice, and believes they remain 
appropriate as they provide executives with competitive pension benefits and choices for dealing with the LTA which may better suit 
their needs whilst being broadly cost neutral to the Company, are in line with market practice and do not compensate executives for 
changes in taxation. 
During the year , an additional review of UK executive pension arrangements has been undertaken in the light of the changes 
announced to the taxation of members of UK registered pension arrangements from 6 April 2011. The underlying principles for this 
review were that the aggregate level of benefits provided to members should continue to be cost neutral to the Company.
The review concluded that the new arrangements should be based on the Company' s registered pension schemes and that, in 
appropriate circumstances, the Company will continue to have the option to offer an unfunded pension promise so as to mitigate 
the impact of the Lifetime Allowance (introduced in 2006) and the impact of the reduced Annual Allowance with effect from 6 April 
2011. This new arrangement addresses tax-inefficiencies arising for existing employees as a consequence of the pension tax 
changes although members will be given the choice to remain in the current arrangement and pay the increased tax. The 
Committee has decided that in cases where the Company is to pay an unfunded promise, executives will be given the choice to 
commute some or all of the benefit for a taxable lump sum, or take it as pension.
Ian King, George Rose (who retires from the Company on 31 March 2011) and Peter Lynas already have an unfunded promise from 
the Company arising from the 2006 changes; for Ian King and Peter Lynas, this will be extended to cover the reduced Annual 
Allowance at no additional cost to the Company.
Ian King and Peter Lynas (Group Finance Director designate) are both members of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan (the 2000 
Plan), applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic Systems (MES), and members of the ExPS with a normal retirement 
age of 62. The 2000 Plan provides a pension of 1/50th of Final Pensionable Earnings (FPE) for each year of pensionable service, 
payable from a normal retirement age of 65 and members pay contributions of 8% of Pensionable Earnings. FPE under the 2000 
Plan is the best consecutive three-year average of base salary and bonus in the ten Plan Y ears prior to leaving, less an offset for 
State pensions. The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006/07 Plan Y ear to 20% of 
base salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007/08 Plan Y ear and thereafter . However , there is a guarantee that the FPE figure 
for benefits in respect of service prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees 
do not lose the benefit of contributions paid on past bonuses. Ian King and Peter Lynas joined the ExPS in 1999 following the BAe/
MES merger . Therefore their individual total pensions are the sum of their 2000 Plan benefits plus the top up from the ExPS. 
George Rose is a member of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme paying contributions of 9.29% of base salary, and is a member of 
the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 60. George Rose was affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap 
on approved pensions and has an unapproved (i.e. non-tax qualified) pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved 
schemes. This was designed so that the total pension from all sources would be broadly in line with the pension he would have 
received from the Group pension schemes had he not been subject to the earnings cap. The Pension Simplification tax changes 
allowed the flexibility to remove the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of service from April 2006, although some of his 
benefits will remain to be provided by means of an unfunded promise from the Company. No further contributions will be paid into 
his funded unapproved top up arrangement. 
On leaving the Company, George Rose has been granted consent from the Company to early retirement and his pension benefits 
will therefore become payable from 1 April 2011, one year early. His pension is subject to the normal actuarial reduction for early 
payment that would be applied to any other member of the Executive Pension Scheme in these circumstances.
us pension benefits 
Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan and a Non-Qualified Plan which provide a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage 
of career average pay (salary plus bonus subject to a maximum bonus of 150% of salary). The cash accrual rate of the combined 
plans from 1 January 2010 is 14.1% of career average pay. Executive directors pay contributions at the same rates as other 
employees in the plan, being 1.5% of earnings. Linda Hudson also receives a company match on her contributions to her 401(k) 
plan up to a maximum contribution of 6% of salary, up to regulatory limits ($245,000 in 2010). From 1 January 2010, the company 
match was 85%.
Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive directors who served during 2010 are shown in T able D on page 119 
and are calculated in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. 
Other benefits
Other benefits provided to executive directors include a car allowance, the private use of a chauffeur-driven car and a cash 
allowance for medical examination. 
On his appointment as Group Finance Director on 1 April 2011, Peter Lynas will be provided with Company support to establish a 
second home in London as the Committee believed this to be a more cost-effective option for the Company than requiring full 
relocation of his principal residence from outside London. This support is in accordance with Company policy, and consists of a 
lump sum of  22,200, together with a monthly allowance totalling  33,300 in year one declining on a uniform basis to  6,660 in 
year five (such monthly allowances over the five-year period totalling  99,900), and zero thereafter . Clawback provisions operate 
during the first two years of this arrangement whereby he would be required to repay these monies on a pro-rata basis should he 
leave the Company in certain circumstances, e.g. resignation or termination.  112 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
Executive directors' service contracts 
It is the Committee' s policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts that provide for the Company to give the 
individual 12 months' notice of termination. This policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the 
need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a 
contract. The executive directors have service contracts with Group companies and details of these are shown below. 
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period
Linda Hudson 26 October 2009 (amended 8 January 2010) 31 December 2011* 90 days either party
Ian King 27 June 2008 No fixed term 12 months either party
George Rose 16 November 1998 (amended 3 December 1999, 
15 January 2004 and 17 October 2005)
No fixed term - ends 
31  March 2011
12 months from the Company, 
6 months from the individual 
Peter Lynas 16 February 2011 (effective 1 April 2011) No fixed term 12 months either party
*  Subject to automatic renewal for one-year periods each year unless either party gives notice of non-renewal. 
In the event of the termination of an executive director' s contract it is the Committee' s policy to seek to limit any payment made in 
lieu of notice to a payment equal to the amount of one year' s base salary. The service contracts for two of the executive directors 
(Ian King and George Rose), and that for Peter Lynas which comes into effect on 1 April 2011, contain specific provisions to the 
effect that the Company has the right to pay a sum equivalent to 12-months' salary in lieu of notice. 
Linda Hudson' s contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year , unless one party 
gives notice of non-renewal. Separately, there is a 90-day termination provision. If the employment is (a) terminated by the Company 
(other than for cause as defined in the contract or in the event it is not extended following her 65th birthday) or (b) she resigns for a 
 Good Reason' (as defined in her contract), she is entitled to a termination payment equal to (i) one year' s base salary, (ii) a 
pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year , and (iii) the continuation of 18-months' medical benefits, plus a further 18-months' 
subsidy of a portion of the premiums (or a cash payment in lieu of this benefit). 
George Rose will retire from the Company, and as a director , with effect from 31 March 2011. No termination payments will be 
made. All outstanding long-term incentive awards and share options will vest in accordance with the rules of the respective share 
plans, i.e. subject to the attainment of the related performance conditions and pro-rating in accordance with the length of his 
service against the relevant performance period. He will not be required to defer one-third of his 2010 annual incentive, payable in 
2011, into the SMP . He will receive a normal early retirement pension as described on page 111.
No executive director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company (and neither 
does the Chairman nor the non-executive directors in their letters of appointment). 
Policy on external board appointments 
The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold external non-BAE Systems-related non-executive directorships with 
the prior approval of the Committee will continue. The Committee considers that external directorships provide the Company' s 
senior executives with valuable experience that is of benefit to BAE Systems. It is also considered appropriate for BAE Systems to 
contribute to the pool of non-executive expertise available for the benefit of the wider business community, thereby reciprocating 
the benefit that it in turn has received from other organisations which have permitted members of their senior management teams 
to serve on the BAE Systems Board. The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual executive director to retain any 
fees received from such appointments given the additional personal responsibility that this entails. Such fees retained by 
executive directors in 2010 were as follows: Ian King  43,333 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Rotork plc and  
George Rose  78,500 in respect of his non-executive directorship of National Grid plc. 
Chairman's appointment, term and fees 
Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004. His appointment was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from 17 May 
2004 (the date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director) and was subsequently extended in 2007 for a 
second term of three years to 16 May 2010. Following the approval of the Board under the chairmanship of Sir Peter Mason, Senior 
Independent Director , it was extended again in 2009 for a third term to 16 May 2013 unless terminated earlier in accordance with 
the Articles of Association or with either party giving the other not less than six months' prior written notice. The Chairman' s 
appointment is documented in a letter of appointment which is not a contract of employment and he is required to devote no fewer 
than two days a week to his duties as Chairman. His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a 
director of the Company. His fee, which was set by the Committee at  600,000 per annum for the duration of his second three-year 
term, was reviewed in 2010 and the Committee decided that his fee should remain unchanged at that time. His current fee will be 
subject to review in 2011.   BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 113
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
Non-executive directors' appointment, term and fees 
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their 
appointment. The dates of their original appointment were as follows: 
Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term*
Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2012
Harriet Green 01.11.2010 31.10.2013
Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2012
Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2012
Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2011
Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2013
Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2011
Ravi Uppal 02.04.2008 01.04.2011
* Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Company' s Articles of Association. 
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms subject to review after the end of the  
first three-year period and with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need 
progressively to refresh the Board. They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation 
when their appointment terminates. Under the Company' s Articles of Association, they are subject to re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years. Having completed  
a three-year term of appointment, Andy Inglis retired from the Board on 9 July 2010 having originally been appointed to the Board  
on 13 June 2007. Phil Carroll, who had originally been appointed to the Board on 7 September 2005, also retired from the Board  
on 5  May 2010 on the expiry of his term. Ravi Uppal will retire from the Board at the end of his current term on 1 April 2011.
In compliance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board will submit themselves for re-election on  
an annual basis from the 2011 AGM onwards. 
Non-executive directors are proposed by the Nominations Committee and are appointed by the Board on the basis of their 
experience to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct. 
Following publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code in 2010, the time commitment expectations for non-executive 
directors were reviewed and, with their agreement, their Letters of Appointment were amended to reflect that they need to commit 
approximately two days for each of the Board meetings scheduled during the year , to cover attendance and preparation for the 
meeting. Additional time commitments will include attending scheduled Board committee meetings, strategy review meetings and 
ad hoc meetings of the Board (or sub-committees of the Board) that may be called from time to time. The non-executive directors 
are aware that it is not possible to be specific as to exact time commitments as this will vary according to the nature of the matters 
that the Board is required to deal with at any point in time. Newly appointed non-executive directors will also have to dedicate 
additional time to induction activities. The level of their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee to reflect this 
time commitment and responsibility, and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies. Having undertaken its review in 
January 2011, the Committee decided that the non-executive directors' fees for 2011 will be as follows: 
2010 fee 2011 fee
Base fee  66,000  75,000
Additional fee for chairing committees:
Audit Committee  20,000  20,000
Corporate Responsibility Committee  20,000  20,000
Remuneration Committee  20,000  20,000
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director  20,000  20,000
T ravel allowance (per meeting)*  4,000  4,000
* The travel allowance of  4,000 per meeting is paid on each occasion that a non-executive director' s attendance at a Board meeting necessitates air travel of more than five hours (one-way) to 
the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year .
The table below summarises the fee structure for 2010 and 2011: 
Non-executive director 2010 fee* 2011 fee*
Chairman Audit Committee  86,000  95,000
Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee  86,000  95,000
Chairman Remuneration Committee  86,000  95,000
Senior Independent Director  86,000  95,000
Other non-executive directors  66,000  75,000
* Excludes the travel allowance of  4,000 per meeting referred to above. 
On behalf of the Board 
Dick Olver Chairman 
16 February 2011 114 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
Tabular information on directors' shareholdings, share-based incentives, emoluments  
and pensions
table a: diReCtoRs' inteRests
As at 1 January 2010* As at 31 December 2010
Ordinary 
shares
Executive 
Share 
Option Plan
Share 
Matching 
Plan
Performance  
Share Plan
Ordinary 
shares
Executive 
Share 
Option Plan
Share 
Matching 
Plan
Performance 
 Share Plan
P M Anderson - - - - 10,000 - - -
H Green
1
- - - - - - - -
M J Hartnall 20,000 - - - 20,000 - - -
L P Hudson 224,957 133,740 99,908 390,549 253,390 133,740 196,291 685,355
I G King 678,327 1,132,008 527,437 1,325,953 873,422 1,132,008 912,728 1,712,771
Sir Peter Mason 25,283 - - - 25,283 - - -
R L Olver 40,000 - - - 40,000 - - -
R Quarta - - - - - - - -
G W Rose 806,114 369,554 227,699 951,739 859,694 369,554 357,099 1,132,368
N C Rose
2
- - - - 55,000 - - -
C G Symon 10,000 - - - 10,000 - - -
R K Uppal - - - - - - - -
* or upon appointment.
1 Appointed as a director on 1 November 2010.
2 Appointed as a director on 8 February 2010.
The table above gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons 
for those individuals who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2010. There have been no changes in the interests  
of the current directors listed in the table above between 31 December 2010 and 16 February 2011 with the exception of the 
interests in the ordinary shares of Ian King and George Rose who have acquired an additional 107 and 106 ordinary shares, 
respectively, since 31  December 2010 under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that 
their beneficial shareholdings at the date of this report stood at 873,529 and 859,800, respectively.
The Company' s register of directors' interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors' share interests.
Information subject to audit
The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in T ables B, C and D on pages 115 to 119.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 115
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
table b: shaRe oPtions and long-teRm inCentive Plan (ltiP) a waRds - ian king
Share 
options
1 January 
2010
Granted  
during  
the year
Exercised 
during  
the year
Lapsed  
during  
the year
31 December 
2010
Exercise 
price 
  Date of grant
Date of 
exercise  
or lapse
Market 
price on 
exercise 
 
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
PSP
TSR
49,313 - 49,313 - - nil 24.03.05 24.03.10 3.81 24.03.10
1,2
24.03.12
PSP
TSR
53,200 - 26,599 - 26,601 nil 12.04.06 13.04.10 3.72 12.04.10
1,3
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
115,973 - - 115,973 - nil 30.03.07 30.03.10 - 30.03.10
4
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
122,039 - - - 122,039 nil 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
122,039 - - - 122,039 nil 07.05.08 - - 26.03.11
1
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
103,467 - - - 103,467 nil 08.09.08 - - 08.09.11
6
08.09.15
PSP
EPS
103,467 - - - 103,467 nil 08.09.08 - - 08.09.11
6
08.09.15
PSP
TSR
 328,227 - - - 328,227 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
PSP
EPS
 328,228 - - - 328,228 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
PSP
TSR
- 289,351 - - 289,351 nil 23.03.10 - - 23.03.13
6
23.03.17
PSP
EPS
- 289,352 - - 289,352 nil 23.03.10 - - 23.03.13
6
23.03.17
1,325,953 578,703 75,912 115,973 1,712,771
ExSOP 318,314 - - - 318,314 1.72 30.09.03 - - 30.09.06
1
30.09.13
ExSOP 272,388 - - - 272,388 2.01 30.03.04 - - 30.03.07
1
30.03.14
ExSOP 221,903 - - - 221,903 2.64 24.03.05 - - 24.03.08
1
24.03.15
ExSOP 145,443 - - - 145,443 4.28 12.04.06 - - 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 173,960 - - - 173,960 4.57 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
1
30.03.17
1,132,008 - - - 1,132,008
LTIPs
1 January 
2010
Granted 
during  
the year
Vested 
during  
the year
Lapsed 
during  
the year
31 December 
2010
Market 
price at 
date of 
award 
 
Date of 
award
Date of  
vesting
Market 
price on 
vesting 
 
SMP 46,410 - 46,410 - - 4.57 22.03.07 22.03.10
1
3.87
SMP 109,411 - - - 109,411 4.86 26.03.08 26.03.11
1
-
SMP 371,616 - - - 371,616 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12
6
-
SMP - 431,701 - - 431,701 3.80 23.03.10 23.03.13
6
-
527,437 431,701 46,410 - 912,728
Ian King' s SMP award that vested on 22 March 2010 attracted reinvested dividends which equated on vesting to an additional 
4,912 shares. The market price on vesting was  3.87. 
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 115 and 116.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2  Date exercisable' refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable. 
3 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant. 
4 The award lapsed during the financial year under review having not met the performance condition.
5 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
6 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
PeRfoRmanCe shaRe Plan (PsP)
A full description of the PSP is set out on pages 108 and 109. PSP awards granted since 2008 attract dividends prior to vesting.
PSP
TSR
 - nil vesting if the Company' s TSR at the end of the three-year performance period is outside the top 50% of TSRs achieved 
by a sectoral comparator group; 25% vesting if TSR is at median (50%); and 100% vesting if TSR is in the top 20%, with vesting on a 
straight-line basis between these two points.
PSP
EPS
 - proportion of the award exercisable is determined by the rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance 
period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less, 100% vesting at 11% growth, and vesting on a straight-line basis 
between these two points.
Awards that satisfy the performance conditions at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three, 
four and five.
exeCutive shaRe oPtion Plan (exsoP)
No options have been granted under this Plan since 2007 and it is intended only to be used in future in exceptional circumstances. 
Options granted under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of grant. The maximum duration 
of an option is ten years.
(i)   2005-2007 grants - 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth pa of 3% 
but less than 4% over the three-year performance period; 66.67% for real EPS growth pa of 4% but less than 5%; and 100% for 
real EPS growth of 5% or more.
(ii)   2004 grant - as in (i) but performance is retested at the end of year five against the full period from grant. 
(iii)  2003 grant - as in (i) but performance is retested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant. 116 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
table b: shaRe oPtions and long-teRm inCentive Plan (ltiP) a waRds - geoRge Rose
Share 
options
1 January  
2010
Granted 
during  
the year
Exercised 
during  
the year
Lapsed 
during  
the year
31 December 
2010
Exercise 
price 
  Date of grant
Date of 
exercise 
or lapse
Market 
price on 
exercise 
 
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
PSP
TSR
63,133 - 63,133 - - nil 24.03.05 24.03.10 3.81 24.03.10
1,2
 24.03.12
PSP
TSR
67,942 - 33,970 - 33,972 nil 12.04.06 20.04.10 3.77 12.04.10
1,3
12.04.13
PSP
TSR
122,538 - - 122,538 - nil 30.03.07 30.03.10 - 30.03.10
4
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
122,039 - - - 122,039 nil 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
5
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
122,039 - - - 122,039 nil 07.05.08 - - 26.03.11
1
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
227,024 - - - 227,024 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
PSP
EPS
227,024 - - - 227,024 nil 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
6
24.03.16
PSP
TSR
- 200,135 - - 200,135 nil 23.03.10 - - 23.03.13
6
23.03.17
PSP
EPS
- 200,135 - - 200,135 nil 23.03.10 - - 23.03.13
6
23.03.17
951,739 400,270 97,103 122,538 1,132,368
ExSOP 185,747 - - - 185,747 4.28 12.04.06 - - 12.04.09
1
12.04.16
ExSOP 183,807 - - - 183,807 4.57 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
1
30.03.17
369,554 - - - 369,554
LTIPs
1 January 
2010
Granted 
during  
the year
Vested 
during  
the year
Lapsed 
during  
the year
31 December 
2010
Market 
price at 
date of 
award 
 
Date of 
award
Date of  
vesting
Market 
price on 
vesting  
 
SMP 52,286 - - - 52,286 4.86 26.03.08 26.03.11
1
-
SMP 175,413 - - - 175,413 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12
6
-
SMP - 129,400 - - 129,400 3.80 23.03.10 23.03.13
6
-
227,699 129,400 - - 357,099
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 115 and 116.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2  Date exercisable' refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable. 
3 As (2) above. The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant. 
4 The award lapsed during the financial year under review having not met the performance condition.
5 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
6 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
shaRe matChing Plan (smP) - matChing shaRes
A full description of the SMP , under which awards are subject to a three-year performance period, is set out on page 109. SMP 
awards attract dividends prior to vesting.
2009 and 2010 awards - nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth.
2008 award - nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% pa or less, increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
2007 award - nil vesting for real EPS growth pa of less than 3% over the three-year performance period, with one-third of the 
matched award vesting on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4%, two-thirds vesting with a growth rate of 4% but less 
than 5%, and full vesting at growth of 5% or over .
shaRe PRiCe infoRmation
The mid-market price for the Company' s ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 330.0p (2009 359.5p). The range during the 
year was 294.7p to 388.8p.
aggRegate amount of gains made by diReCtoRs
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2010, as calculated at the date of exercise, 
was  655,392 (2009  1,268,104). The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2010 from Long-T erm Incentive 
Plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was  198,770 (2009  247,044).
Rationale foR key PeRfoRmanCe measuRes foR PsP , exsoP and smP
EPS - importance to major investors as a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
TSR (and secondary financial measure) - importance to major investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth 
relative to major companies in the same sector , and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement in the 
Company' s performance over the relevant period.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 117
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
table b: shaRe oPtions and long-teRm inCentive Plan (ltiP) a waRds - linda hudson
Share 
options
1 January 
2010
Granted 
during  
the year
Exercised  
or released 
during  
the year
Lapsed 
during  
the year
31 December 
2010
Exercise 
price 
  Date of grant
Date of 
exercise, 
release  
or lapse
Market 
price on 
release 
 
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
PSP
TSR
89,160 - - 89,160 - - 30.03.07 30.03.10 - 30.03.10
1
30.03.14
PSP
TSR
45,881 - - - 45,881 - 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
2
26.03.15
PSP
EPS
45,882 - - - 45,882 - 26.03.08 - - 26.03.11
3
26.03.15
PSP
TSR
104,813 - - - 104,813 - 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
4
24.03.16
PSP
EPS
104,813 - - - 104,813 - 24.03.09 - - 24.03.12
4
24.03.16
PSP
TSR
- 191,983 - - 191,983 - 23.03.10 - - 23.03.13
4
23.03.17
PSP
EPS
- 191,983 - - 191,983 - 23.03.10 - - 23.03.13
4
23.03.17
390,549 383,966 - 89,160 685,355
ExSOP 133,740 - - - 133,740 4.57 30.03.07 - - 30.03.10
3
30.03.17
133,740 - - - 133,740
LTIPs
1 January 
2010
Granted 
during  
the year
Vested 
during  
the year
Lapsed 
during  
the year
31 December 
2010
Market 
price at 
date of 
award  
 
Date of 
award
Date of  
vesting
Market 
price on 
vesting 
 
SMP 99,908 - - - 99,908 3.43 24.03.09 24.03.12
4
-
SMP - 96,383 - - 96,383 3.80 23.03.10 23.03.13
4
-
99,908 96,383 - - 196,291
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to T able B on pages 115 and 116.
1 The award lapsed during the financial year under review having not met the performance condition.
2 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
3 Subject to a performance condition that has been met. 
4 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
Note: Awards granted to Linda Hudson (a US national) under the PSP are technically characterised as long-term incentives rather 
than options as, subject to the attainment of the performance condition, they are delivered automatically on the third, fourth and 
fifth anniversary of grant without the need to exercise an option. They are shown in the top portion of the table for ease of 
comparison.  118 www.baesystems.com
Directors' Report: Governance
Remuneration report continued
table C: diReCtoRs' RemuneRation
2010 2009
Base 
salary  
 '000
Fees  
 '000
Bonus 
 '000
 Benefits  
 '000
Other pay 
 '000
Total  
 '000
Base 
salary 
 '000
Fees  
 '000
Bonus  
 '000
Benefits  
 '000
Other pay 
 '000
Total 
 '000
Chairman
R L Olver - 600 - 13 - 613 - 600 - 63 - 663
Executive directors
W P Havenstein
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 294 - - 11 - 305
L P Hudson
2
583 - 1,168 22 - 1,773 105 - 189 9 - 303
I G King 900 - 1,437 26 - 2,363 900 - 1,680 70 - 2,650
G W Rose 623 - 645 28 - 1,296 623 - 755 74 - 1,452
M J T urner
3
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a - - - - 591 591
Non-executive directors
P M Anderson
2
- 76 - - 20 96 - 15 - - 4 19
P J Carroll
4
- 23 - - 8 31 - 66 - - 24 90
H Green
5
- 11 - - - 11 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
M J Hartnall - 86 - - 8 94 - 86 - - 4 90
A G Inglis
4
- 45 - - - 45 - 86 - - 4 90
Sir Peter Mason - 86 - - 8 94 - 86 - - 4 90
R Quarta - 66 - - 4 70 - 66 - - 4 70
N C Rose
5
- 59 - - 4 63 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Sir Nigel Rudd
1
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a - 81 - - 4 85
C G Symon - 86 - - 20 106 - 71 - - 24 95
R K Uppal - 66 - - 20 86 - 66 - - 24 90
2,106 1,204 3,250 89 92 6,741 1,922 1,223 2,624 227 687 6,683
1 Resigned or retired in 2009.
2 Appointed in 2009.
3 Retired in 2008.
4 Retired in 2010. 
5 Appointed in 2010.
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above. Where the individual was appointed 
during the year the amount is shown from appointment.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where appropriate, the provision of a car allowance and the private 
use of a chauffeur-driven car . The benefits received by the Chairman, Dick Olver , include the private use of a chauffeur-driven car .
The benefits received by the US-based executive director include a cash allowance for a car , medical examination, dental benefits, 
and insured life and disability benefits. In addition, the benefits received by Linda Hudson also include $1,955 ( 1,265) in respect 
of private use of a company aeroplane (2009 $8,455).
The other pay received by the non-executive directors represents the travel allowance of  4,000 per meeting as set out on page 113. 
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004. He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship 
role and ceased to be an employee on 29 February 2008. He subsequently became a member of the Company' s Home Market 
Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia of which he ceased to be a member on 28 February 2010 upon the expiry of his contract. His 
consultancy fees in 2010 for the period of time he spent in the role of a member of the Home Market Advisory Board were  47,000 
(2009  246,954). 
A payment of  7,884 was made to Mike T urner in January 2010, due in relation to the tax payable in respect of his private use of a 
chauffeur-driven car in the 2008/09 tax year , the amount of which was agreed with HM Revenue and Customs. There were no other 
payments to former directors during the year other than the Company pension payments to Sir Richard Lapthorne and Sir Peter 
Gershon referred to on page 119.  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 119
Group performance Segmental performance Governance Financial statements Overview Strategy
table d: Post-RetiRement benefits
Age NRA*
Accrued  
benefit at  
1 January
2010
1
  pa
Accrued  
benefit at  
31 December 
2010
1
   pa
Change in 
accrued 
pension after 
allowing for 
inflation 
  pa
Transfer  
value at  
1 January 
2010
2
 
Transfer  
value at  
31 December  
2010 
 
Director's 
contributions  
 
Increase in 
value less 
director's 
contributions 
 
L P Hudson
3
 60 65 347,088 514,438 167,350 242,180 389,262 2,379 144,703
I G King
4
 54 62 509,944 585,228 75,284 6,780,197 8,174,403 79,200 1,315,006
G W Rose
5
58 60 366,564 388,568 22,004 6,840,222 7,374,857 57,663 476,972
* Normal Retirement Age
1  Accrued benefits may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme. In addition, a longevity 
adjustment factor applies to UK pension accrued after 5 April 2006. 
2  T ransfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession. For UK-based directors the 
assumptions are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes. For US-based directors the 
assumptions are the same as those used for accounting disclosures. The increase in transfer value arising from the change in 
assumptions is: Linda Hudson:  5,113; Ian King:  166,128; George Rose:  (104,428). 
3  Linda Hudson is a member of a US retirement plan which provides a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career 
average pay. The accrued benefit shown above is a cash lump sum amount payable at normal retirement age. This benefit 
comprises  61,457 from a contributory Qualified Plan and  452,981 from Non-Qualified Plans. In addition, Linda Hudson 
participates in a Section 401(k) defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company will match 
employee contributions up to a limit. In 2010, the Company paid contributions of  8,087 into this 401(k) arrangement. Linda 
Hudson is paid in US dollars. Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value  15,932 and  12,055, respectively,  
is due to currency movements.
4  Ian King has an unfunded unapproved retirement arrangement for benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance. The pension 
and transfer value figures shown are in respect of his total benefit.
5  George Rose has a funded unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 6 April 2006. No Company 
contributions have been made to this arrangement during the year . In addition, George Rose has an unfunded unapproved 
retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 6 April 2006 and for benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance.  
The pension and transfer value figures shown are in respect of his total benefit.
Sir Peter Gershon and Sir Richard Lapthorne, both former directors, have unfunded pension arrangements. In 2010, the Company 
paid Sir Peter Gershon a pension of  109,280 (2009  109,230) and Sir Richard Lapthorne a pension of  102,382 (2009 
 100,058) in respect of these arrangements.