 Remune Ration C ommittee 
Repo Rt Carl Symon
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Members
Carl Symon (Chairman) 
Chris Grigg 
Nick Rose
Governance
The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held eight meetings. 
Chris Grigg joined the Committee on 1 July 2013 and Lee McIntire served on the Committee 
until he stepped down from the Board on 20 August 2013. All its members are independent 
in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Chief Executive and the Company's Chairman attend Committee meetings by invitation 
only. They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is 
involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Summary of responsibilities
 - Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, members of 
the Executive Committee (EC), the Company Secretary and other senior executives
 - Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, 
executive directors and EC members
 - Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for the 
Chairman, executive directors, EC members, the Company Secretary and other senior 
executives, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where 
applicable
 - Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance conditions 
to be used for such schemes
 - Determining any share scheme performance targets
 We believe that it is of the 
utmost impo Rtan Ce to ensu Re 
a st Rong link bet Ween a Ctual 
Remune Ration Re Ceived and the 
a Chievement of ou R st Rategi C 
and business obje Ctives. 
Dear Shareholders,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Remuneration Committee's 
report for 2013, for which we will be seeking 
shareholders' approval at the 2014 AGM. 
Since I last reported to you on the work 
undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, 
there has been a good deal of change in the 
regulations concerning directors' remuneration. 
The changes were preceded by a wide-ranging 
debate, which engaged many stakeholders 
and considered important issues, including 
the impact that executive incentives can have 
on the creation of sustainable long-term value 
for shareholders and the wider economy, the 
balance of risk and reward between 
shareholders and executives and, closer to 
home, the effectiveness of remuneration 
committees. All members of the Remuneration 
Committee have followed this debate and the 
evolution of the new regulations closely. We 
are therefore keenly aware of the important 
governance role that the Committee plays and 
the regulatory and governance requirements 
to which we are required to adhere. 
The remuneration policy that we have set out 
in this report is the result of a detailed review 
that began with a broad discussion and 
analysis of what we wished to achieve and 
the various remuneration structures that could 
be employed. The views of our shareholders 
informed us throughout our deliberations 
and the views of our major shareholders 
were sought directly once the policy had 
taken shape. Ultimately, the work of the 
Remuneration Committee is informed by the 
wider role we have as non-executive directors 
in understanding and overseeing the 
performance of the Company, including the 
markets in which it operates and the strategy 
agreed by the Board. 
BAE Systems' remuneration philosophy
The Committee's overall approach remains 
unchanged: we aim to recognise the challenging 
business environment in which we operate, 
whilst fostering a Total Performance culture 
at all levels of the Group. Our remuneration 
strategy provides incentives for executives to 
deliver on the Company goals and rewards 
them for the achievement of the Group's 
strategy through a combination of short-term 
incentives targeted at Group, business 
segment and personal performance as well 
as leadership behaviours, and long-term 
incentives which are targeted at Group 
performance. We ensure that executive pay 
is aligned with Company results and that the 
interests of our executives are strongly aligned 
to those of our shareholders by delivering 
long-term reward in shares. Our aim is to 
provide a total remuneration package that 
GOVERNANCE
80 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 is fair and transparent and which balances 
overall commonality of design with appropriate 
tailoring to ensure competitiveness in our 
different principal markets.
Context to the Committee's decisions 
Our remuneration strategy is to ensure we 
are able to attract, retain and reward the 
key talent we need to realise the Company's 
strategic objectives, deliver on customer 
commitments, lead and inspire employees 
and to drive value for our shareholders. 
It recognises the need to be competitive 
in those markets in which we operate and 
compete for talent. A core design objective 
is an appropriate balance of short-term and 
long-term incentives, focused on Group 
performance, business segment performance 
and leadership behaviours that underpin a 
Total Performance culture. 
The focus of changes to our reward framework 
in recent years has been to improve alignment 
with shareholder value creation and address 
the perceived complexity of our long-term 
incentive arrangements by simplifying our 
arrangements. The Committee believes that 
the introduction of share options in 2012 
(without increasing the expected value of 
the overall package) has created a direct 
relationship with absolute share price 
performance and a clear line of sight for 
executives. And with approval at the AGM in 
May 2013, we simplified our framework by 
eliminating our Share Matching Plan (SMP) 
which was regarded as overly complex. The 
pay-out experience under our incentive plans 
provides confidence that the choice and 
weighting of the performance metrics in our 
incentive plans are appropriately rewarding our 
executive team only when their performance 
delivers tangible business results in line with 
the Group's strategy. Against this background, 
the Committee has continued to consider 
whether more can be done to reduce 
complexity and provide even greater clarity 
and transparency for shareholders.
In 2013, our performance against annual 
incentive targets was as follows: Our adjusted 
underlying earnings per share (EPS) of 42.1p 
was between threshold and target, driven 
predominantly by the impacts of Sequestration 
on the performance of BAE Systems, Inc. 
and the contract losses in our US Support 
Solutions business. Order intake was in line 
with target and the performance for both 
year-end and average net debt was between 
target and stretch. The reported diluted 
underlying EPS of 41.8p was below the level 
required for any vesting against the EPS 
metric applicable to any long-term incentives 
awarded in 2011. This result of 41.8p will 
form the baseline figures against which the 
EPS performance metric for 2014 Performance 
Share Plan (PSP) awards will be assessed.
Key Committee decisions 
During 2013, the Committee continued to 
focus on tackling complexity and ensuring 
alignment with key drivers of business 
performance. Key decisions made by the 
Committee during the year were:
 - The salaries of the Chief Executive and the 
Group Finance Director remain unchanged in 
2014. For the second successive year, there 
will be no increase in base compensation 
and no increase in earnings opportunity 
flowing through to the rest of the package. 
The President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. has been newly appointed 
effective 1 February 2014 and the detail of 
his remuneration package is set out in the 
Annual remuneration report.
 - Annual bonus pay-outs for the executive 
directors under the annual incentive plan 
ranged from 48.9% to 54.6% of maximum.
 - EPS performance over the three-year 
period for awards made in 2011 under 
the long-term incentive plans was below 
the minimum 5% per annum average 
growth requirement. Consequently:
 - the SMP award granted in 2011 earned 
a nil match; and
 - of the 50% of the awards of shares granted 
in May 2011 under the EPS portion of 
the PSP , none will vest. The performance 
outcome against the Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) condition which applies to 
the other 50% of PSP awards granted in 
May 2011 cannot be tested until after 
the date of publication of this report.
 - Whilst the Committee considers the award 
of performance shares, share options and 
restricted stock as essential to provide 
incentives and reward executives 
appropriately and ensure competitiveness 
of design in our different major markets, 
we are proposing the introduction of a 
single umbrella plan. If this is approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM, it will 
replace the three current separate 
long-term incentive plans with a single 
long-term incentive framework with flexibility 
of delivery vehicles such that Long-Term 
Incentive (LTI) awards may be granted using 
a mix of performance shares, share options 
and restricted stock, underpinned by a 
common set of rules and terms relating to 
eligibility and participation, treatment on 
leaving, change of control and exercise of 
discretions by the Committee - which in 
turn will be clearer for shareholders when 
considering our remuneration policy.
In implementing this umbrella plan, there 
is no intention to change how the total LTI 
quantum is determined, how the various 
LTI elements are used by geography or the 
underlying design or operation of the 
different types of equity award. The current 
LTI opportunity applicable to each of the 
executive directors remains unchanged. 
Subject to formal shareholder approval 
of the new umbrella plan at the AGM in 
May 2014, the Committee intends to 
make awards under this new plan for the 
first time in Spring 2015. LTI awards in 
2014 will continue to be delivered under the 
current incentive framework and plan rules 
previously approved by shareholders.
 - In the case of the President and Chief 
Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc., 
50% of the PSP has previously been based 
on a measure relating to operating cash 
performance of the US businesses (with 
the other 50% being subject to the same 
EPS performance condition as applies to 
other executive directors). In order to create 
stronger alignment of focus and reward 
outcomes across the entire executive 
leadership team, awards of performance 
shares will be based 50% on EPS growth 
and 50% on relative TSR for all executive 
directors, irrespective of geography.
 - The Remuneration Committee has 
maintained the EPS performance conditions 
for PSP awards in 2014 at a challenging 
growth target of 5% to 11% per annum. 
 - We are retaining our requirement for 
executive directors to build up a meaningful 
personal shareholding, which was increased 
in 2013 for the Chief Executive from 200% 
to 300% of salary and now stands at 350% 
for the President and Chief Executive 
Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. and at 200% 
for the Group Finance Director.
We intend in practice to operate the Directors' 
remuneration policy from the 2014 AGM. For 
the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the 
legally binding restrictions under such policy 
will only take legal effect from 1 January 2015 
subject to shareholder approval.
On behalf of the Board
Carl Symon 
Chairman - Remuneration Committee
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 81