 di Re Cto Rs ' Remune Ration 
poli CY
It is intended in practice to operate the 
Directors' remuneration policy ( the Policy')
from the 2014 AGM. For the purposes of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Policy will only take 
legal effect on 1 January 2015 subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM. 
The Policy will be displayed in the  Investors' 
section of the Company's website, immediately 
after the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers remuneration policy 
annually to ensure that it remains aligned 
with business needs and is appropriately 
positioned relative to the market. However, 
in the absence of exceptional or unexpected 
circumstances which may necessitate a 
change to the Policy, there is currently no 
intention to revise the Policy more frequently 
than every three years. We use target 
performance to estimate the total potential 
reward and benchmark it against reward 
packages paid by BAE Systems' competitors.
Our Policy is to set base salary with reference 
to the relevant market-competitive level. 
Actual total direct reward reflects the 
performance of the individual and the 
Company as a whole. The aim is to deliver an 
overall remuneration package for executive 
directors which provides an appropriate 
balance between short-term and long-term 
reward and between fixed and variable reward 
as described in the table below.
Whilst our long-term incentive plans provide 
the Committee with discretion in respect of 
vesting outcomes that affect the actual level 
of reward payable to individuals, such 
discretion would only be used in exceptional 
circumstances and, if exercised, disclosed 
at the latest in the report on implementation 
of the remuneration policy (i.e. the Annual 
remuneration report) for the year in question.
Element
Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy
Recognise market value of role and individual's skills, experience and performance to 
ensure the business can attract and retain talent.
 
Operation
Salaries are reviewed annually. Business and individual 
performance, skills, the scope of the role and the 
individual's time in the role are taken into account when 
assessing salaries, as is market data for similar roles in 
the relevant market comparator group.
The comparator group for UK executive directors is 
comprised of selected companies from the top 70 of the 
FTSE 100 and is constructed to position BAE Systems 
around the median in terms of market capitalisation. For 
the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, 
Inc., the comparator group is drawn from companies in 
the US aerospace and defence sectors, together with 
similar organisations in the general industry sector 
where BAE Systems, Inc. is positioned at the median 
of the comparator group by reference to revenue size.
 
Maximum opportunity
When considering salary increases for the 
executive directors in their current roles, the 
Committee considers the general level of salary 
increase across the Group and in the relevant 
external market.
Actual increases for the executive directors in 
their current roles will generally not exceed the 
average percentage increase for employees as a 
whole, taking account of the level of movement 
within the relevant UK/US comparator group.
As a maximum, in exceptional circumstances (such 
as a material increase in job size or complexity, or 
a recently appointed executive director where the 
salary is positioned low against the market), the 
increase will not exceed 10% in any single year.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
None.
Executive directors' policy table
GOVERNANCE
82 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Element
Annual incentive
Purpose and link to strategy
Drive and reward annual performance of individuals and teams on both financial and 
non-financial metrics, including leadership behaviours in order to deliver sustainable 
growth in shareholder value. 
Compulsory deferral into shares increases alignment with shareholder interests.
 
Operation
75-80% of the annual incentive is driven off in-year 
financial performance, and 20-25% is based on driving 
performance and improvement in the area of corporate 
responsibility and other non-financial objectives 
supporting the Group's strategy. 
One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject 
to compulsory deferral for three years in BAE Systems 
shares without any matching.
A clawback mechanism exists under which part or all of 
the deferred bonus can be recovered if performance for 
which the bonus was awarded is subsequently restated 
or shown to be materially inaccurate or misleading or 
where the executive's employment can be terminated 
for cause.
Cash dividends are payable to the participants on the 
shares during this three-year deferral period.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive and the President and Chief 
Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.: 225% 
of salary
Group Finance Director: 
160% of salary
The pay-out for maximum performance is 200% 
of on-target. The pay-out for achieving a threshold 
performance is 40% of the target, with no pay-out 
for achieving less than this. Pay-out for performance 
between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Metrics and weightings applicable 
in 2014: 
Group earnings per share (EPS)  
- 40% 
Group cash - 25% 
Order intake - 15% 
Safety - 5% 
Personal objectives - 15%
Performance is assessed on an 
annual basis, using a combination 
of the Group's main performance 
indicators for the year. The measures 
include financial and non-financial 
metrics as well as the achievement 
of personal objectives. Measures will 
be weighted each year according to 
business priorities.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87 
regarding the selection and weighting 
of performance metrics.
Notwithstanding performance 
against the above metrics, all bonus 
payments are at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, which will 
be based on an assessment of the 
individual's personal contribution to 
business performance over the 
relevant year and leadership 
behaviours demonstrated in making 
that contribution, relative to others.
Executive directors' policy table continued
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 83 Element
Long-term Incentives (Lt I)
 
Operation
All awards are granted based on a percentage of salary 
and share price at the date of grant.
Dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares are 
paid at the time of vesting and are not taken into 
account when determining individual limits.
Pre-vesting clawback provisions apply to all awards and 
are intended to cover situations, for example, where 
results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially 
inaccurate or where the executive's employment can be 
terminated for cause.
The Committee will establish the targets for each measure 
at the start of each performance period based on Group 
projections and market expectations for the business. 
The performance conditions for previous awards are 
described in the Annual remuneration report.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted 
to take account of variations of share capital and other 
transactions or events.
On a change of control or similar transaction, awards 
generally will vest to the extent performance conditions 
are then satisfied (if applicable) and then be pro-rated to 
reflect the acceleration of vesting unless the Committee 
decides otherwise. Alternatively, awards may be 
exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the 
acquiring company.
The share plan rules may be amended from time-to-time 
by the Committee in certain circumstances including 
minor changes for administrative, tax or other regulatory 
purposes.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may be 
amended in other circumstances if the Committee 
considers it appropriate.
 
Maximum opportunity
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87 
regarding the selection and weighting 
of performance metrics.
 
Operation
It is proposed to consolidate the three long-term 
incentive plans described below into a single umbrella 
plan with effect from 1 January 2015, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
 
Maximum opportunity
Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed 
umbrella plan at the 2014 AGM, over the lifetime 
of this remuneration policy, the Committee will 
have discretion to vary the weighting and mix of 
different types of awards within the following limits:
(a) Performance Shares: 
UK executive directors: 
Between 50% and 75% of overall LTI Expected 
Value (EV)
US executive directors: 
Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV
(b) Share Options:
Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV
(c) Restricted Shares:
Applicable to US executive directors only. No more 
than one-third of overall LTI EV
The maximum opportunity in respect of each 
element is as set out below.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable 
See below in relation to Performance 
Shares and Share Options. 
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Executive directors' policy table continued
84 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS' REMUNERAt ION POLICy Element
Long-term Incentives continued
Performance Shares
Purpose and link to strategy
Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) performance aligned to the interests of shareholders.
 
Operation
Awards, typically in the form of nil-cost options, vest and 
become exercisable in three tranches on the third, 
fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to 
performance conditions.
For US participants, awards are delivered as conditional 
share awards (RSUs) which vest automatically on the 
third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to 
performance conditions.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive: 250% of salary
Group Finance Director: 215% of salary
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.: 242% of salary
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Metrics and weightings applicable 
to 2014 awards: 
50% of award based on TSR growth 
relative to a comparator group of 
at least 12 companies over the 
three-year performance period. 
Nil vesting if TSR ranked below 
median in the peer group; 25% 
exercisable if TSR ranked at the 
median; 100% exercisable if TSR 
ranked in the upper quintile; pro-rata 
vesting for performance between 
median and upper quintile. Award 
subject to a secondary financial 
measure as set out on page 100.
50% of award based on average 
annual EPS growth over the three 
years with nil vesting at average 
annual EPS growth of 5% and 100% 
vesting at 11% growth.
Pro-rata vesting for intermediate 
performance.
50% of awards made in 2012 and 
2013 for US participants were based 
on long-term operating cash 
performance measured at the level 
of the US businesses in place of 
TSR growth.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Element
Long-term Incentives continued
Share Options
Purpose and link to strategy
Drive and reward delivery of TSR performance and sustained improvement in the 
Company's share price.
 
Operation
Subject to a TSR performance condition. Market value 
options are normally exercisable between the third and 
tenth anniversary of their grant.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive: 300% of salary
Group Finance Director: 300% of salary
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.: 390% of salary
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
For share option awards made to 
the executive directors only, exercise 
is subject to a TSR performance 
condition as set out above.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Element
Long-term Incentives continued
Restricted Shares
Purpose and link to strategy
Provide long-term reward through time-vesting awards principally in the Company's 
US market.
 
Operation
The shares are subject only to the condition that the 
participant remains employed by the Group on the vesting 
date (three years after the award date). These awards are 
not subject to a performance condition as it is designed 
to address retention issues principally in the US.
 
Maximum opportunity
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: 
Not eligible
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc.: 100% of salary
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable 
None.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 87.
Executive directors' policy table continued
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85 Element
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy
Provide employment benefits which ensure that the overall package is market competitive 
when these elements are taken into account.
 
Operation
Benefits include provision of a company car (or cash 
equivalent), life assurance and ill-health benefit cover 
which are provided directly or through membership of 
the Company's pension schemes.
Opportunity for UK executive directors to participate in 
the Share Incentive Plan, a tax approved all-employee 
plan.
Additional benefits such as relocation assistance may 
also be provided in certain circumstances if considered 
reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
 
Maximum opportunity
Benefits are set at a level which the Remuneration 
Committee considers to be appropriate against 
comparable roles in companies of similar size in 
the relevant market.
Relocation assistance comprises reimbursement 
for direct items of expenditure, such as legal, estate 
agency, removals and temporary accommodation, 
based on actual costs incurred which are linked to 
the size and value of the property, plus a 
maximum relocation allowance of  2,500.
Benefits are as reported and itemised within the 
single total figure shown as part of the Annual 
remuneration report on page 93. The main benefits 
in the UK include a car allowance ( 16,000 per 
annum) and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, 
plus life assurance and ill-health benefit cover 
provided through membership of the Company's 
pension schemes. In the US, the benefits include 
a cash allowance for car and parking ($20,900 per 
annum) and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, 
medical and dental benefits, and insured life and 
disability benefits. The maximum cost of such 
benefits will reflect the associated market-
competitive cost of provision.
Participation limits for the Share Incentive Plan are 
those set by the UK tax authorities from time-to-time.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
None.
Element
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy
Provide competitive post-retirement benefits or cash allowance equivalent.
 
Operation
For any new externally appointed executive directors in 
the UK, membership of the Company's executive defined 
contribution plan is offered with Company contributions 
set as a percentage of base salary. Individuals may elect 
to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a 
cash allowance.
Current UK executive directors are members of the 
BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and members 
of the underlying employee pension plan, which provide 
a target benefit for executive directors payable at normal 
retirement age (62) of 1/30th of final pensionable 
earnings (FPE) for each year of service up to a maximum 
of two-thirds of FPE. Member contributions are currently 
8%. Further detail is provided on page 96 as part of the 
Annual remuneration report.
Any new externally appointed US executive directors 
would be offered membership of the US defined 
contribution plan.
 
Maximum opportunity
Company contribution of 19% (in addition to 
employee contribution of 6%) of base salary only.
Under the existing defined benefit scheme, a 
maximum of two-thirds of FPE accrued at 1/30th 
for each year of service.
The US defined contribution plan provides 
100% company matching contributions up to 
a maximum of 6% of base salary, subject 
to US statutory limits.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Executive directors' policy table continued
86 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS' REMUNERAt ION POLICy Element
Pension continued
 
Operation
Where executive directors' pension entitlement or 
accrual is restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and/or 
the Annual Allowance under the relevant pension 
scheme the Company may offer an unfunded pension 
promise to offset the impact of these restrictions.
 
Maximum opportunity
The difference between the value of the registered 
pension scheme benefits as restricted to the 
Lifetime Allowance and Annual Allowance and the 
full value of those registered pension scheme 
benefits that would be payable if there were no 
Annual Allowance or Lifetime Allowance 
restrictions.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
Notes to the executive directors' policy table 
Remuneration policy for other employees
1  The Company's approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, 
performance and market data for similar roles in other companies.
2  All leaders may participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the executive directors. Other employees may participate in 
performance-based incentive plans which vary by organisational level and with relevant metrics for the particular area of the business.
3  Long-Term Incentive grants may be made to the most senior managers in the business (approximately 250 individuals globally). The nature of the awards depends 
on the individuals' location, roles and responsibilities, in particular:
 - performance measures and targets for performance share grants are made in line with those applying to executive directors; 
 - there are no performance conditions attached to share option grants below executive director level; and
 - Restricted Share grants are currently made to the most senior managers in the US reflecting competitive market practice.
Performance measures and targets
4  The Committee selected the performance conditions because these are central to the Company's overall strategy and are the key metrics used by the executive 
directors to oversee the operation of the business. The non-financial performance targets are determined by the Committee in consultation with the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee.
5  The performance measures and targets are determined annually by the Committee, taking account of the Group's strategic objectives, the internal business 
plan and budgets, as well as external market expectations and general economic conditions. The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the 
annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year. 
The targets will be disclosed retrospectively after the end of the relevant financial year.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement (MSR)
6  The Committee has agreed a policy whereby the executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal to a set 
percentage of base salary. An Initial Value must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option 
schemes and other Long-Term Incentive schemes by retaining 50% of the net value (i.e. the value after deduction of exercise costs and tax) of shares acquired 
under these schemes. Once the Initial Value is achieved, a Subsequent Value must be achieved in the same way, except that a minimum of 25% of the net value 
must be retained on each exercise or acquisition. Shares owned beneficially by the director and his/her spouse count towards the MSR. The MSR does not apply 
after the individual has ceased to be a director. Any case of non-compliance would be dealt with by the Committee.
The following table sets out MSR Initial Value and Subsequent Value: 
Initial Value Subsequent Value
Chief Executive 150% 300%
Group Finance Director 100% 200%
President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 175% 350%
Executive directors' policy table continued
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 87 Illustration of application of remuneration policy
The following charts show the value of the package each of the executive directors would receive based on 2014 base salaries, remuneration 
and 2014 LTI awards assuming the following scenarios: minimum fixed pay (including salary, benefits and pension as provided in the single 
figure table on page 93); pay receivable assuming on-target performance is met; and maximum pay assuming variable elements pay out in full. 
The scenarios below exclude any share price appreciation and dividends.
UK legislation requires that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the remuneration policy takes legal effect. Rather than 
providing further charts for assumed 2015 remuneration and awards, we invite shareholders to assume similar levels for 2015 and we will 
report on actual levels in 2015.
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration
Annual bonus
PSP and ExSOP
4,000 6,000 8,000 2,000 0
20%
38%
33%
100% 1,346
31% 31% 3,513
47% 6,643
Chief Executive ( '000)
Value of package ( '000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration
Annual bonus
PSP and ExSOP
2,000 3,000 4,000 1,000 0
35%
57%
23%
100% 1,289
19% 24% 2,268
42% 3,746
Group Finance Director ( '000)
Value of package ( '000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration
Annual bonus
PSP and ExSOP
4,000 6,000 8,000 2,000 0
27%
47%
29%
100% 1,959
26% 27% 4,121
44% 7,321
Value of package ($'000)
President and Chief Executive Ofcer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. ($'000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Fixed elements of remuneration Annual bonus PSP and Share options
4,000 6,000 8,000 2,000 0
20%
38%
33%
100% 1,346
31% 31% 3,513
47% 6,643
Chief Executive ( '000)
Value of package ( '000)
Non-executive directors (NEDs) policy table
Element
Fees
Purpose and link to strategy
To attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to provide independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
 
Operation
NEDs fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors' 
Fees Committee.
NEDs receive a basic fee with an additional fee for those 
who are chairmen of committees and/or undertake the 
role of Senior Independent Director.
NEDs also receive a travel allowance per meeting on each 
occasion that a scheduled Board meeting necessitates 
air travel of more than five hours (one way) to the 
meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel 
allowances per year. 
Fees are typically reviewed annually, taking into account 
time commitment requirements and responsibility of the 
individual roles, and after reviewing practice in other 
comparable companies. 
The Chairman's fees are set by the Remuneration 
Committee on a three-year basis and not normally 
subject to review during that period. 
 
Maximum opportunity
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Annual 
remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The current Chairman's fee has been set at 
 650,000 and fixed at this level for three years 
from the date of appointment (1 February 2014).
The aggregate cost of fees and benefits paid to 
NEDs (including the Chairman) will not exceed an 
annual limit of  2.5m.
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
None.
Element
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy
Reimbursement for reasonable and documented expenses incurred in the performance 
of duties.
 
Operation
NEDs are not eligible to participate in any pension benefits 
provided by the Company, nor do they participate in any 
performance-related incentives.
The Chairman is provided with a chauffeur-driven car. 
This may be used for non-Company business, but the 
cost of the benefit of such usage shall be paid by the 
Chairman. 
Reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs 
(including payment of the associated tax cost) incurred 
by the director or his/her spouse whilst undertaking 
duties on behalf of the Company that may be assessed 
as a benefit for tax purposes. 
 
Maximum opportunity
See the aggregate limit under  Fees' above. 
Performance metrics used, weighting and 
time period applicable
88 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS' REMUNERAt ION POLICy Prior commitments 
The Company will honour any commitments made in respect of executive director and non-executive director remuneration before the date on 
which either: (i) the Directors' remuneration policy becomes effective or (ii) an individual becomes a director, even where such commitments are 
not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time any such commitment is fulfilled. This includes (without limitation) all existing share awards 
as detailed on page 102 under the PSP , SMP , RSP , ExSOP and ExSOP
2012
, Linda Hudson's leaving arrangements as detailed on page 98 and 
Peter Lynas' second residence allowance as detailed on page 93. 
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of 
BAE Systems' size, scale and complexity. The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment to 
an executive director position, either from within or outside BAE Systems. 
Operation The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including overall total remuneration, the type of 
remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited, and will operate in order to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to secure the 
individual of the required calibre.
The fees and benefits applicable to the appointment of any new non-executive directors will be in accordance with the policy table 
on page 88.
Opportunity The Committee seeks to align the remuneration package offered with the policy set out in the executive directors' policy table above 
recognising that participation under the policy above varies by geography. 
 - For UK and other non-US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual 
salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 550% of annual salary. 
 - For US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term 
awards under this policy will not exceed 750% of annual salary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to  buy-out' existing equity or, in exceptional circumstances, 
other elements of remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer. In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant 
factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted (e.g. cash or shares) and 
the time over which they would have vested. Buy-out awards would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the fair value of 
those forfeited. Full details will be disclosed in the next Annual remuneration report following recruitment which will include details 
of the need to grant a buy-out award. 
Fixed 
elements 
(base salary, 
retirement 
and other 
benefits)
The salary level will be set in accordance with the policy described in the executive directors' policy table above.
The executive director shall be eligible to participate in applicable BAE Systems' employee benefit plans, including coverage under 
applicable executive and employee pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, 
as may be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
In the case of promotion of an existing Group employee to an executive directorship on the Board, commitments made before such 
promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not they are consistent with the remainder of this policy. 
Annual 
Incentive  
Plan
The appointed executive director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the Annual Incentive 
framework as described in the executive directors' policy table above.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy disclosed in the executive directors' policy table in this report and subject 
to the maximums referred to therein.
Long-term 
Incentive 
Plans
The executive director will be eligible for equity awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion, 
subject to this policy and the rules of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy set out in the executive directors' policy table above and subject to the 
maximums referred to therein.
Other For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses 
in accordance with the provisions described under the Benefits section of the policy table on page 86.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 89 Service contracts 
Executive directors
Operation In accordance with long-established policy, all executive directors have rolling service agreements which may be terminated in 
accordance with the terms of these agreements. 
Dates of appointment for executive directors
Name
Ian King
Peter Lynas
Jerry DeMuro
Date of appointment
27 June 2008 
1 April 2011
1 February 2014
Notice period
12 months either party
12 months either party
90 days either party
1
Notice period The Committee's policy is that the service contracts of executive directors will not exceed 12 months. In exceptional circumstances, 
in relation to newly recruiting an executive director operating in a US environment, the notice period may be extended to a maximum 
of 24 months and structured such that it automatically reduces to 12 months at the end of the first complete year of service. 
Change of 
control
No executive director has provisions in his service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
1  Jerry DeMuro's contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90 days' notice 
of non-renewal.
Chairman
The Chairman's appointment is documented in a letter of appointment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties 
as Chairman. His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company. His appointment is for a 
term of three years from 1 February 2014 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association or by the Company 
or the Chairman giving not less than six months' notice. The Chairman's appointment is to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee prior to 
the end of the three-year term and the Chairman may be invited to serve for an additional period.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment. The dates 
of their original appointment are shown below:
Name Date of appointment
Expiry of current 
three-year term
Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2015
Harriet Green 01.11.2010 30.06.2014
Chris Grigg 01.07.2013 30.06.2016
Paula Rosput Reynolds 01.04.2011 30.06.2014
Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2016
Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2014
Ian Tyler 08.05.2013 07.05.2016
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial three-year term that, subject to review, may be extended subsequently for 
further such terms. Any third term of three years is subject to rigorous review, taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board. 
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election or re-election at the Company's AGM.
90 BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GOVERNANCE DIRECt ORS' REMUNERAt ION POLICy Policy on payment for loss of office
Operation The policy on payment for loss of office provides a clear set of principles that govern the payments that will be made for loss of office, 
and take account of the need to ensure a smooth transition for leadership roles during times of change. The policy that will apply for 
a specific executive director's payment for loss of office will be the policy that was in place at the point when the payment for loss of 
office was agreed for the executive director in question.
Notice and 
pay in lieu 
of notice
Executive directors' contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from either party or termination by way of payment in lieu 
of notice, at the Company's discretion. Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct. 
In the event of the termination of an executive director's contract, it is the Committee's policy to seek to limit any payment made in 
lieu of notice to a payment of not more than one year's base salary.
Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an executive director will be subject to approval by the 
Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the specific circumstances surrounding the termination, 
including whether the scenario aligns to an example under the approved leaver criteria, performance, service and health or other 
circumstances that may be relevant. 
Jerry DeMuro's contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party 
gives at least 90 days' notice of non-renewal. If the employment is (a) terminated by the Company (other than for cause as defined 
in the contract) or (b) he resigned for a  Good Reason' (as defined in his contract), he is entitled to a termination payment equal to 
(i) one year's base salary and (ii) a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year. He will also be entitled to a continuation of medical 
benefits for 18 months (or a cash payment in lieu).
Retirement 
benefits
As governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan. No enhancement for leavers will be made.
Annual 
Incentive  
Plan
The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to make an annual incentive payment as part of the termination package. 
Where an executive director's employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the 
executive director will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on 
performance achieved over the period. No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive director leaves by reason of death, ill-heath, retirement, a transfer of business or redundancy, the Remuneration 
Committee may use its discretion to determine that an executive director is entitled to receive a bonus (subject to an assessment 
based on performance over the period and pro-rated for time) in respect of the financial year in which the individual ceased 
employment. 
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to use their discretion, it must be shown how this is in the interests of the 
Company and its shareholders.
The Committee's policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Long-term  
Incentive 
Plans
The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an executive director leaves is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plans, awards and options generally vest and/or become exercisable where an executive director 
leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy or leaving in such 
circumstances as the Committee determines (each an  approved leaver'). Awards and options generally continue and vest on the 
normal vesting date (or, in the case of Performance Shares, the first normal vesting date), unless the Committee determines that 
the awards should vest on cessation. Any performance conditions will be applied at the time of vesting.
In the event of death, awards generally vest at the time of death subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that 
time. Awards are then pro-rated as set out below.
On the vesting and/or exercise of awards and/or options as set out above, the number of shares received will, unless the Committee 
decides otherwise, be reduced pro-rata to reflect the period in which the executive director was in employment as a proportion of 
the relevant vesting or performance period (as applicable).
Where an executive director's employment is terminated for any other reason, his awards and options will lapse.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to exercise its discretion as permissible under the share plan rules, then 
disclosure will include an explanation of how the application of discretion was in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
Where an executive director's employment is terminated or an executive director is under notice of termination for any reason at the 
date of award of any Long-Term Incentive awards, no Long-Term Incentive awards will be made. 
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Remuneration Committee does not consult directly with employees as part of the process for reviewing executive pay. When considering 
salary increases for the executive directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Group and 
in the external market.
Stakeholder considerations
The Remuneration Committee conducts an annual programme of consultation with major shareholders in order to seek their input to the 
development of remuneration policy or plans.
Governance GOVERNANCE
BAE SySt EMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 91