 Baltic Oil Terminals plc 
10
Directors' remuneration review 
The Company discloses certain information relating to Directors' remuneration in this report, which is not audited. 
Remuneration committee 
The Company established a Remuneration Committee in April 2006. 
The committee meets as required. Executive Directors invited to attend will not vote on their own remuneration or 
incentives.
The committee will advise the Board on Group remuneration policy and may obtain advice from independent 
remuneration consultants appointed by the Company. The Remuneration committee members are Stan Buck 
(Chairman) and Richard Healey. 
Remuneration policy 
The Company's policy is to maintain levels of remuneration for the Group that are comparable and competitive 
with peer group companies, so as to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre, by rewarding them as 
appropriate to their contribution to the Group's performance. 
Terms of appointment 
The terms of each Director's appointment are set out in their service agreement which are effective for an 
indefinite period but may be terminated in accordance with specified notice periods. 
Each service agreement sets out details of basic salary, fees, benefits in kind and share option grants. 
Basic salaries 
The basic salary of each Executive Director is established by reference to their responsibilities and individual 
performance.  
Fees
The fees paid to Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board and reviewed periodically to reflect current 
rates and practice commensurate with the size of the Company and their roles. 
Share options 
The Company operates a policy of granting share options to all employees and Directors as a long-term incentive 
and retention plan. The share options are exercisable over varying periods and at varying strike prices dependent 
upon satisfying appropriate performance conditions. The right to exercise is subject to terms related to continuing 
employment.
Currently, there were no new share options issued in the current year and all previous share options granted have 
expired.
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Baltic Oil Terminals plc. 
Richard Hiersche 
Company Secretary 
28 May 2010 