 Non-executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the 
Executive Directors.  Their appointments can be terminated on six 
months' notice in writing by the Company.
Director's emoluments
Remuneration in respect of the Directors was as follows:
 
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman and both 
Non-executive Directors. 
The Committee's main role and responsibilities are as follows:
  To review, and determine on behalf of the Board, the specific  
 remuneration and incentive packages for each of the Company's  
 Executive Directors.
  To review, and make recommendations to the Board in respect  
 of, the design of remuneration structures and levels of pay   
 and other incentives for employees of the Group, including share  
 option awards and any adjustments to the terms of share ownership  
 and share option schemes. 
  To be responsible for reporting to the Group's shareholders in  
 relation to remuneration policies applicable to the Group's   
 Executive Directors.
The Committee may invite the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Finance Officer to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on proposals relating to 
the remuneration of the Chief Finance Officer and of other senior 
executives of the Group. The Chief Executive Officer is not involved in 
setting his own remuneration.
The Committee may use remuneration consultants to advise it in 
setting remuneration structures and policies. The Committee is 
exclusively responsible for appointing such consultants and for setting 
their terms of reference.
The Committee's terms of reference are reviewed and approved by 
the Board. These are available for inspection at the Group's registered 
office.
Remuneration policy
The Group's policy on remuneration is to provide a package of 
benefits, including salary, performance-related bonuses and share 
options, which reward success and individual contributions to the 
Group's overall performance appropriately, while avoiding paying more 
than is necessary for this purpose. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee takes into account remuneration packages of comparable 
companies when making recommendations to the Board.
Performance-related elements of remuneration are designed to align 
the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders and 
accordingly are set as a significant proportion of total remuneration.
Share options
The Group considers that active participation in a share option plan is 
an effective means of incentivising and retaining high quality people. 
Directors and employees are eligible to participate in the scheme. 
Further details of the option plan and outstanding options as at 31 
March 2007 are given in note 7 to the financial statements.
Service agreements
The Executive Directors have service agreements with Bango plc. 
The agreements include restrictive covenants which apply during 
employment and for a period of twelve months after termination.
The agreements can be terminated on twelve months' notice in 
writing by either the Company or by the Executive Director.
Remuneration Committee report
Remuneration Committee report 27 
2007 2006
 '000  '000
Aggregate emoluments  0 , 300, 07
Aggregate emoluments of 
highest paid Director
 ,300  0 , 0