  
Remuneration Committee report 17 
 
Remuneration Committee report 
 
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman and the 
Non-executive Director. 
  
The Committee's main role and responsibilities are as follows: 
 
  To review, and determine on behalf of the Board, the 
specific remuneration and incentive packages for each of 
the Group's Executive Directors. 
 
  To review, and make recommendations to the Board in 
respect of, the design of remuneration structures and 
levels of pay and other incentives for employees of the 
Group, including share option awards and any 
adjustments to the terms of share ownership and share 
option schemes. 
 
  To be responsible for reporting to the Group's 
shareholders in relation to remuneration policies 
applicable to the Group's Executive Directors. 
 
The Committee may invite the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Finance Officer to attend meetings of the Remuneration 
Committee. The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on proposals 
relating to the remuneration of the Chief Finance Officer and of 
other senior executives of the Group. The Chief Executive Officer 
is not involved in setting his own remuneration. 
 
The Committee may use remuneration consultants to advise it in 
setting remuneration structures and policies. The Committee is 
exclusively responsible for appointing such consultants and for 
setting their terms of reference. 
 
The Committee's terms of reference are reviewed and approved by 
the Board. These are available for inspection at the Group's 
registered office. 
 
Remuneration policy 
The Group's policy on remuneration is to provide a package of 
benefits, including salary, performance-related bonuses and share 
options, which reward success and individual contributions to the 
Group's overall performance appropriately, while avoiding paying 
more than is necessary for this purpose. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee takes into account remuneration 
packages of comparable companies when making 
recommendations to the Board. 
 
Performance-related elements of remuneration are designed to 
align the interests of Executive Directors with those of 
shareholders and accordingly are set as a significant proportion of 
total remuneration. 
 
Share options 
The Group considers that active participation in a share option 
plan is an effective means of incentivizing and retaining high 
quality people. Directors and employees are eligible to participate 
in the scheme. Further details of the option plan and outstanding 
options as at 31 March 2009 are given in note 7 to the financial 
statements. 
 
Service agreements 
The Executive Directors have service agreements with Bango PLC. 
The agreements include restrictive covenants which apply during 
employment and for a period of twelve months after termination. 
 
 
 
The agreements can be terminated on twelve months' notice in 
writing by either the Company or by the Executive Director. 
 
Non-executive Directors 
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Executive Directors.  Their appointments can be terminated on 
six months' notice in writing by the Company. 
 
Directors' emoluments 
Remuneration in respect of the Directors was as follows: 
 
 2009 2008
  '000  '000
  
Aggregate emoluments  254,775 314,258
Aggregate emoluments of 
highest paid Director 
100,800 100,500