 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
REMUNERATION REPORT
I am pleased to present the Directors' remuneration report for the financial 
year ended 30 June 2012 (the  Remuneration Report') on behalf of the 
Remuneration Committee (the  Committee'). The Remuneration Report is 
prepared in accordance with schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (S.I. 
2008/410) (the  Regulations') and will be subject to an advisory vote at the 
2012 AGM. Following implementation of the proposed new remuneration 
reporting regulations, the Company intends to align its future reporting 
with those regulations as soon as practicable after they come into effect.
The Board recognises that the Group's remuneration policy should 
reflect the Group's strategy to increase profitability and reduce overall 
indebtedness in a challenging market whilst seeking to attract, retain 
and motivate directors and senior managers of the quality required 
to enable successful future growth of the Group. At the same time 
executive remuneration must remain aligned with the long-term 
performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders. In 
determining the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors and 
members of senior management directly below the Executive Director 
level (the  Senior Management'), consideration is given to the overall 
performance of the Group, the fixed and variable incentives offered 
by comparable companies in the sector and a general group of 
40 pan-sector FTSE 350 members and the pay and employment 
conditions being offered to employees throughout the Group. Targets 
to drive increased profitability and reduced overall indebtedness are 
features of the short and long-term incentive schemes to ensure that 
Executive Directors' and Senior Management performance is 
appropriately aligned with our corporate strategy.
Details of the Group's remuneration policy and the remuneration 
packages of Executive Directors and the Senior Management can be 
found on the following pages of this Remuneration Report. However, 
key points to be aware of this year are:
1.  The base salaries of Steven Boyes and David Thomas have been 
adjusted to reflect an increase in responsibilities (following the 
resignation of Clive Fenton from the Board on 5 July 2012). Mark Clare 
has been awarded a salary increase of approximately 3% for the 
2012/13 financial year, which is in line with the increases awarded 
to employees across the Group. To provide some context, this is the 
second year in the last five years where any increase has been made 
to Executive Directors' salaries.
2.  Given the significantly improved financial performance of the Group, 
the bonus payments for the 2011/12 financial year are at 148.75% 
of base salary after taking account of adjustments for the value of 
land sales. The Committee, on reviewing performance against the 
targets, concluded that, after taking into account the Group's 
significant improvement in profit before tax and exceptional items 
(which represents 80% of the total award for the year) to  110.7m 
against the minimum threshold established for the bonus of  85m, 
a target level of  95m and a maximum threshold of  115m; reduction 
in overall indebtedness; and individual contributions of all senior 
managers to achieving these results, this level of bonus is justified. 
3.  For the 2012/13 financial year, Executive Directors and the 
Senior Management will be granted awards under the Long-Term 
Performance Plan (the  LTPP'). Consistent with the approach taken 
in previous years, the Committee has decided to revert to making 
awards of 200% of base salary for the three Executive Directors but all 
other participants' awards will be maintained at 150% of base salary. All 
awards under the LTPP will be subject to two performance conditions: 
half will be based on relative Total Shareholder Return ( TSR') and the 
other half on Earnings per Share ( EPS') targets to be measured over 
a three year performance period commencing 1 July 2012.
4.  In May 2012, the Board reviewed the roles of the Non-Executive 
Directors and decided that they will sit on each principal Committee 
of the Board with effect from 1 July 2012. Consequently, Non-Executive 
Directors' base annual fees have been increased to  48,000 from 
 40,000 to reflect the additional time commitment expected from 
them, with effect from the same date. This is the first increase for 
Non-Executive Directors since 2008. The Chairman's fee will 
however remain unchanged.
5.  The Board will be asking shareholders at our forthcoming AGM 
to approve the renewal of the LTPP for a further ten years. The only 
substantial amendment to the LTPP relates to the specific inclusion 
of clawback provisions for any awards made under the LTPP going 
forward. Since 2010, clawback provisions have been agreed with, 
and accepted by, the Executive Directors and the Senior Management 
each time an award under the LTPP has been made. 
6.  In order to seek to mitigate the impact of key employees below Senior 
Management level taking up new job opportunities with competitors, 
particularly in London and the South East, we have introduced 
a limited Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  LTIP') for approximately 
30 of these employees. Awards under the LTIP are dependent 
on the Company achieving EPS targets as per the existing LTPP .  54 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
During the year the Committee complied with those aspects of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the  Code') relevant to its business and 
took into account remuneration guidelines and guidance issued by the 
Association of British Insurers (the  ABI'), NAPF and PIRC when setting 
its remuneration policy. The Committee continues to seek to demonstrate 
its accountability on executive remuneration to shareholders through 
this report and through dialogue with institutional investors. As in previous 
years, the Committee did engage in dialogue with key institutional 
investors and shareholder representative bodies in respect of the 
Group's remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Senior 
Management for the forthcoming year. The Committee took into account 
the feedback it received from this process, when setting the Group's 
remuneration policy. 
The Committee will consider both the shareholders' vote on the report 
and views expressed by shareholders on the detail of the report at the 
2012 AGM in determining future remuneration policy for all employees. 
It will also undertake a review, with the assistance of its legal and 
financial advisers, of the Group's current remuneration policy in line with 
the Government's announcement in June 2012, once the applicable 
regulations have been finalised. I hope that you will be able to support 
the Committee's policy at this year's AGM.
After eight years on the Board of the Company, six years as the 
Chairman of the Committee and three years as Senior Independent 
Director, I have decided to step down from each of these positions 
at the 2012 AGM. I am delighted to report that the Board has agreed 
to appoint Richard Akers as the new Chairman of the Committee 
(subject of course to the annual shareholders' vote on re-election of 
directors). In order to enhance the effectiveness of the Committee further, 
Mark Rolfe joined the Committee as a member on 1 July 2012.
Robert Davies
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Committee 
The Committee operates within terms of reference and governance 
policies approved by the Board (the  Terms of Reference'). The full 
Terms of Reference are available from the Company's website at  
www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk.
Principal responsibilities
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are:
 	 determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the Group 
with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors and senior 
managers of the experience and calibre required by the Group having 
regard to remuneration paid to employees across the Group and an 
external comparable group of companies;
 	 determining, reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on 
the remuneration package and terms of appointment of the Chairman; 
 	 agreeing targets and benefits in respect of performance related pay 
schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all participating 
employees which are sufficiently challenging, fair and highly motivating, 
commensurate with sector practice, and consistent with maximising 
shareholder value and the interests and expectations of shareholders;
 	 agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation for loss 
of office or early retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors 
and the Senior Management;
 	 determining the total remuneration package of the Group Chief 
Executive and, after consultation with him, the total individual 
remuneration package of each Executive Director and the Senior 
Management including bonuses, incentive payments and share 
options/awards and pension arrangements; and
 	 undertaking consultations with institutional investors on remuneration 
policy and/or other aspects of senior remuneration, as appropriate. 
The Committee is also responsible for appointing consultants to advise 
on executive remuneration. Details of the consultants utilised during the 
financial year ended 30 June 2012 are set out below.
Membership and proceedings of the Committee
The members of the Committee throughout the financial year were 
Bob Davies (Chairman), Bob Lawson, Rod MacEachrane and Tessa 
Bamford. Richard Akers also joined the Committee on 2 April 2012. 
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Tom Keevil, acts 
as Secretary to the Committee. The Committee met on five occasions 
during the financial year and attendance at each of these meetings is 
described in Table 1 on page 43 of the Corporate Governance Report. 
All Committee members are considered to be independent with no financial 
interest in the Committee's decisions, other than as shareholders and the 
fees paid to them as Non-Executive Directors. The only material issue that 
arose from the annual effectiveness exercise was whether the Committee 
needed more strength in depth given the envisaged legislative changes 
in this area. Accordingly, Mark Rolfe joined the Committee with effect  
from 1 July 2012. The Committee also updated its Terms of Reference  
as part of the annual effectiveness process. Details of Directors' 
shareholdings can be found on page 64 of this Remuneration Report.
As announced on 25 July 2012, Bob Davies will step down from his 
position as a Director of the Board at the 2012 AGM and taking into 
consideration the skills, knowledge and experience of each of the 
Non-Executive Directors, the Board identified Richard Akers as the 
most suitable Non-Executive Director to replace Bob Davies as the 
Chairman of the Committee. BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
Advice/Advisers
During the year the Committee has taken advice from independent 
advisers, New Bridge Street ( NBS'), a division of Aon Hewitt Limited, 
which is a subsidiary of Aon plc. NBS was appointed by the Committee 
as its remuneration consultant in 2008 and is a founder signatory to the 
Remuneration Consultants Group's Code of Conduct. In addition to 
advising the Committee, NBS also provided the Company with advice 
on implementing decisions made by the Committee and remuneration 
benchmarking. NBS's fees for providing such advice amounted to 
 26,053 (201 1:  27 ,000) for the year ended 30 June 2012. Aon Hewitt 
Limited also provided broking services to the Company in respect of 
private medical insurance, Death in Service benefits and Group Income 
Protection. In line with best practice, the Committee assesses, from time 
to time, whether the appointment remains appropriate or if it should 
be put out to tender as part of its effectiveness review. Given a change in 
personnel at NBS, the Committee undertook such an assessment during 
the year and remains satisfied with NBS's appointment, and the new lead 
adviser, as remuneration advisers to the Committee. Mercer Limited has 
advised the Company in relation to various pension issues and has been 
appointed actuary to the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance 
Scheme since 2004. Slaughter and May, the Company's corporate 
legal advisers, have also provided advice as and when necessary.
In addition to advice from external consultants, the Committee received 
input into its decision-making from the Group Chief Executive and the 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, neither of whom was 
present at any time when his own remuneration was being considered.
Remuneration policy 
The Group's remuneration policy aims to attract, retain, motivate and 
reward Executive Directors and the Senior Management who are fully 
focused and incentivised by short and long-term measures to sustain 
the growth and profitability of the business and reduce overall 
indebtedness, which remain the Group's key strategic objectives. Each 
year the Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration in the 
context of the business environment, regulation and best practice, and 
market trends for the current and subsequent financial years. 
The Committee believes that executive remuneration should:
 	 be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives 
of the Group (such as increasing profitability and reducing 
overall indebtedness);
 	 be aligned with the interests and expectations of shareholders;
 	 take account of pay and employment conditions of employees 
across the Group; 
 	 reward the sustained growth and profitability of the business and 
the reduction of overall indebtedness; and 
 	 conform to market-leading best practice and regulations. 
The Committee has therefore based the executive remuneration 
package for the forthcoming year on the following principles:
 	 performance-related remuneration should be linked to the  
achievement of demanding performance targets;
 	performance-related remuneration should reflect the reallocation 
of responsibilities upon the appointment of Steven Boyes as Chief 
Operating Officer and changes to the role performed by David Thomas; 
currently approximately 72.2% of the Group Chief Executive's and 
approximately 72.3% of the other Executive Directors' remuneration 
potential is performance based (see Charts 1 and 2);
 	 performance-related remuneration should align the interests 
of executives with those of shareholders by setting performance 
targets based on measures of shareholder return and accordingly 
the Committee's policy is to use a combination of TSR and EPS 
performance conditions to achieve this alignment; 
 	 total remuneration for outstanding performance should be 
competitive with that available elsewhere in the sector; and
 	total remuneration should take into account levels of pay and 
employment conditions throughout the Group.
Chart 1:
Chief Executive Officer's Remuneration 
Mix at Maximum Performance
1. Fixed Pay  27.8%
2. Short-Term Incentives  30.9%
3. Long-Term Incentives  41.3%
1
2
3
Chart 2:
Other Executive Directors' Remuneration 
Mix at Maximum Performance
1. Fixed Pay  27.8%
2. Short-Term Incentives  30.9%
3. Long-Term Incentives  41.3%
1
2
3
The Committee has the discretion to, and does, consider the effect of 
corporate performance on environmental, social and governance risks 
and issues when setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and the Senior Management to ensure that remuneration structures 
do not inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour. As a result, 
10% of any bonus earned will be forfeited if the Group does not achieve 
its safety, health and environmental compliance targets (see page 31 
of the Business Review). During the year the Committee considered 
the structure of Executive Directors' and the Senior Management's 
remuneration packages from a general risk perspective and is satisfied 
that they do not encourage inappropriate risk taking. Risk is also taken 
into account when setting the targets and when determining entitlements 
under variable reward schemes. The Committee ensures that targets, 
whilst stretching, are: realistic and attainable; for the long-term benefit of 
the Group; and not achievable by taking inappropriate business risks. 
In undertaking its review of the Group's remuneration policy, the 
Committee considered a proposal by the Board to seek to mitigate 
the impact of key employees below Senior Management level taking 
up new job opportunities with competitors operating nationally, but most 
notably in London and the South East. Recognising the risks associated 
with losses from this talent pool, the Committee approved the introduction 
of the LTIP for approximately 30 employees operating immediately below 
Senior Management level. The Executive Directors' and Senior  56 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
and Mark Clare. David Thomas joined the Company in July 2009. 
On 30 June 2012, Mark Clare, Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton each 
met the requirements under these shareholding guidelines.
There are no formal shareholding guidelines for the Chairman, the 
Non-Executive Directors and the Senior Management, however they 
are encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their 
interests with those of shareholders.
The remuneration package for Executive Directors and the 
Senior Management
The remuneration package for Executive Directors and the Senior 
Management comprises:
 	 b a s e s a l a r y;
 	 annual performance related bonus;
 	 long-term share incentives; and
 	 pension and other benefits.
The performance conditions which apply to the performance related 
element of executive remuneration are the same for all Executive 
Directors and the Senior Management and are set out in the following 
sections of this Remuneration Report. Details on how the expected 
values for share based payments are calculated can be found in  
note 28 to the financial statements on pages 118 to 123.
Base salary
Base salaries for Executive Directors and the Senior Management are 
a fixed annual sum payable in monthly instalments in cash. Base salaries 
are reviewed annually, with assistance from NBS, having regard to: 
individual responsibilities, skills and experience; salary levels for similar 
positions in other major house builders and other comparable companies 
comprising the FTSE 250 and a general group of 40 pan-sector FTSE 350 
members with a market capitalisation and turnover of between 50% and 
200% of that of the Company; the level of pay increases awarded across 
the Group; economic and market conditions; and the performance of the 
Group. Any changes to base salary take effect from 1 July annually. 
On 5 July 2012, Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company and 
all relevant Group companies. He remains an employee of the Company 
until 31 December 2012, during which time he will receive a base salary 
of  25,000 per month and a benefits package comprising the provision 
of a motor vehicle and private medical insurance. He is also required 
to comply with certain non-compete covenants during this period 
of employment and a further six months thereafter. His executive 
responsibilities were primarily subsumed within the revised remit of 
Steven Boyes who was appointed as Chief Operating Officer ( COO') 
for the Group, and to a lesser extent by David Thomas.
In recognition of the additional responsibilities assumed by him, Steven 
Boyes has been awarded an increase in his base salary of approximately 
10.5% to  430,000 per annum. David Thomas' base salary has also been 
increased by approximately 5.4% to  430,000 partially also to reflect an 
increase in his responsibilities. In addition, David's pension contribution 
rate has been increased to 30% so that it corresponds with the rate 
for the other Executive Directors. The Committee has agreed to award 
Mark Clare a salary increase of 3.3% for the 2012/13 financial year, in 
line with the salary increases awarded to the Senior Management and 
all employees across the Group. Executive Directors' salaries, with effect 
from 1 July 2012, will therefore be as shown in Table 2.
Management will not be granted any awards under the LTIP . On an 
annual basis, subject to prior approval from the Committee the equivalent 
of 20% of each participant's salary will be deferred into the LTIP . The LTIP 
will be subject to an EPS performance condition on the same basis as 
any LTPP award which may be granted during the 2012/13 financial year 
(thereby aligning the objectives) and subsequent LTPP awards and a 
continued employment condition. In the event that the participant is still 
an employee of the Group at the end of the three year performance 
period and the Group achieves the specified EPS targets, the participant 
will receive an equivalent number of shares to the amount of bonus 
deferred. By using the same stretching EPS targets as the LTPP , the 
Committee is ensuring that the LTIP is aligned with our strategic 
objectives of increasing profitability and reducing overall indebtedness.
Clawback
The Company has a power of clawback in respect of any annual bonus 
paid and to any share awards granted under the LTPP or the Executive 
Share Option Scheme (the  ESOS') in respect of the financial year ended 
30 June 2010 and later years, subject in the case of HMRC approved 
options, to such approval. These provisions have, since 2010, been agreed 
with, and accepted by, Executive Directors and Senior Management at the 
time of granting any new awards under the LTPP or ESOS. It is intended to 
embed these provisions in the amended rules of the LTPP which are to be 
presented for approval by shareholders at the 2012 AGM. In addition, the 
clawback provisions will also apply to any awards granted under the LTIP .
The clawback can be invoked if:
(a) it is necessary to restate the Group's accounts used to calculate 
a participant's entitlement to bonus or share awards in circumstances 
where the original over-statement has led to a bonus being paid or share 
awards being granted which would not otherwise have been paid or 
granted; or (b) the participant is found guilty of any criminal activity in 
connection with his or her employment and this related to an act which 
led to a bonus being paid or share awards being granted to him or her. 
In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the bonus 
and/or share award will be retrospectively recalculated. If bonus monies 
have been paid, the participant will be required to reimburse the 
Company for an amount up to the total amount of the net bonus paid, 
less any bonus that the Committee determines would have been paid 
regardless of the event in question. If share awards have been granted, 
the number of awards or options granted will be reduced accordingly.
Executive Directors' shareholding guidelines
The Committee has implemented, and annually reviews, the following 
shareholding guidelines for all Executive Directors in order to further 
align the interests of the Executives with the expectations of the 
Company's shareholders:
 	within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors 
are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company 
equivalent in value to 100% of their base annual salary;
 	the share price to be used for the purposes of determining the value 
of the shares will be that prevailing on 30 June in each year; and
 	provided that Executive Directors hold the appropriate level of shares, 
they may sell shares (i) to realise their LTPP awards; or (ii) upon the 
exercise of share options, subject to the normal Listing Rules and 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules' requirements for directors' dealings.
These guidelines are currently only applicable to Steven Boyes  BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
status for both the Recommend score and the Quality score under the 
Home Builders Federation scheme. Failure to achieve this will result in 
10% of any bonus earned being forfeited. In terms of safety, health and 
environment, 10% of the total bonus earned will be forfeited for failure 
to achieve the on-target performance measure. As a result, if neither 
of these performance measures were to be achieved, in aggregate 
20% of the annual bonus earned would be forfeited. 
2011/12 financial year
For the financial year ended 30 June 2012, the Committee has approved 
a bonus payment to Executive Directors (no part of which is pensionable) 
of 148.75% of base salary (48.75% of which will be deferred into shares) 
based on performance against profit before tax, cash generation, employee 
engagement and individual objectives and after taking account of 
adjustments for the value of land sales. The Committee believes that after 
taking into account the Group's significant improvement in profit before tax 
and exceptional items (which determined 80% of the total bonus for the 
year) to  1 10.7m against the minimum threshold established for the bonus 
of  85m, the target level of  95m and maximum threshold of  1 15m; the 
reduction of overall indebtedness to  167 .7m; and the contribution that 
the Executive Directors and the Senior Management have individually 
and collectively made to this strong operational and financial performance, 
this level of bonus is justified. Clive Fenton will receive no bonus in respect 
of the 201 1/12 financial year or the 2012/13 financial year.
Share incentive schemes
During the year the Committee undertook a review of the share incentive 
schemes currently in operation and agreed that grant levels, performance 
criteria and vesting schedules remain appropriate to the Company's current 
circumstances and prospects. There have been no significant amendments 
to the terms and conditions of any entitlement under any scheme. Details 
of all Executive Directors' long-term performance plans and share options 
are set out in Tables 7 and 8 respectively on pages 64 and 65. 
Each of the share schemes currently in operation is subject to two 
performance conditions and a three-year performance period. Half 
of the awards will vest on attainment of a performance target on relative 
TSR and the other half on the attainment of a target based on EPS. 
The TSR and EPS performance conditions are calculated as follows:
TSR
The TSR element is calculated as the percentage change in share price 
plus dividends over a three-year performance period against the 
comparable group comprising the FTSE 250 (excluding investment 
trusts), with the opening share price averaged across the dealing days 
in the three-month period ending immediately before the start of the 
performance period and the closing price averaged over the dealing days 
in the last three months of the performance period. Performance against 
the TSR target is measured at the end of a three-year performance period.
EPS
The EPS for the Company is calculated by dividing the earnings in 
EPS over a three-year performance period by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the performance period 
(excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust). For all schemes 
(except for the 2009/10 ESOS) performance against the EPS target 
is tested after the end of a three-year performance period. Details in 
respect of the testing of the 2009/10 ESOS can be found on page 60 
of this Remuneration Report.
Table 2 - Executive Directors' salaries 
Per annum 
1 July 2012  
 
1 July 2011  
 
Mark Clare 664,000 642,600
David Thomas 430,000 408,000
Steven Boyes 430,000 390,000
Clive Fenton 390,000
1
390,000
1 Clive Fenton resigned from his position as an Executive Director on 5 July 2012, but remains an employee 
of the Group until 31 December 2012 as set out on page 56. 
Annual bonus
The Company's annual bonus plan aims to motivate and reward 
Executive Directors and the Senior Management for the achievement 
of demanding financial objectives and key strategic measures as set 
by the Board. The Committee ensures that performance measures  
for bonuses are stretching whilst having regard to the nature and risk 
profile of the Company and the interests of its shareholders. 
2012/13 financial year
For the financial year ending 30 June 2013, the Committee has 
maintained the maximum bonus for Executive Directors and the Senior 
Management at 150% of base salary but simplified the bonus structure, 
so that depending upon performance, this flexible element of 
remuneration will pay an amount between 0% and 150% of base salary 
on a linear basis. Any awards in excess of 100% of base salary will be 
deferred into shares in the Company, held under the Co-Investment 
Plan for a period of three years with a continued employment condition. 
No other performance conditions will apply to this award and the 
Committee has agreed that no matching shares will be awarded against 
these shares. The payment for on-target performance will again remain 
at 75% of base salary, however the ratio of profit before tax to overall 
indebtedness has been adjusted from 120:15 to 100:35. It is worth 
noting that the on-target and maximum bonus potential for the 
forthcoming year still remain below the levels in place prior to the 
economic downturn, which were at 130% and 180% of salary 
respectively. In addition, the Committee has retained an absolute 
discretion in the making of bonus payments, and will continue to 
consider, among other factors, the underlying financial performance 
of the business relative to the sector in its decision making.
The performance measures against which bonus payments for the 
2012/13 financial year will be determined are as follows:
Performance  
measure
% of Salary 
Maximum
Profit before tax 100
Overall indebtedness 35
Personal objectives 10
Employee engagement 5
Total 150*
 
*Any bonus earned in excess of 100% will be deferred into shares.
In addition to these performance measures, the Committee has retained 
the penalties introduced last year for under-performance in respect of 
customer service and safety, health and environment. The customer 
service penalty has however been revised so that performance is no 
longer measured against the achievement of the on-target percentage 
for customer service but is dependent on the achievement of five star  58 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
In addition to the above, vesting of the 2012/13 LTPP Award will be 
subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee 
must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group 
over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined 
by applying the above targets. If the Committee is not of this view, then it 
is empowered to reduce the level of vesting.
Co-Investment Plan
The Committee has decided to use the Co-Investment Plan (the  Plan') 
to hold shares awarded in respect of any bonus earned in excess 
of 100% of base salary. Any shares so awarded are subject to a 
continued employment performance condition over a three-year 
performance period. The Committee has agreed that no matching 
shares will be awarded against these shares.
The Plan was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 
2005 for the purpose of compulsorily deferring any annual bonus earned 
above target into shares held under this Plan. Participants also have the 
opportunity to voluntarily defer additional amounts of annual bonus up to 
a maximum of 25% of base salary into the Plan. Under the rules of the 
Plan the Committee has a discretion which allows it to award matching 
shares at a rate of one for one for compulsory deferral and at a maximum 
of four for one for voluntary deferral (the  Matching Award'). Any Matching 
Awards will be subject to performance conditions measured over a 
period of three years.
For the financial years ended 30 June 2010 and 2011 no bonus was 
earned in excess of 100% of base salary by Executive Directors and 
Senior Management, and therefore no shares were deferred into the 
Plan. For the financial year ended 30 June 2012, Executive Directors 
(other than Clive Fenton who will not receive any bonus for the 2011/12 
financial year) earned, in aggregate, a bonus of  702,293 in excess of 
100% of base salary, which will be deferred into shares based on the 
share price as calculated by averaging the closing middle-market 
quotations, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock 
Exchange, for the first five dealing days following the date of the 
announcement of the Group's annual results for the financial year ended 
30 June 2012. The actual awards will be set out in next year's report. 
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary by the Senior 
Management for the 2011/12 financial year will also be deferred into 
the Plan on the same basis.
 
TSR performance is calculated by NBS and EPS performance is verified 
by the Committee.
New awards to be granted during the financial year ending  
30 June 2013
Consistent with previous years, the Committee has decided to grant 
LTPP awards to Executive Directors and the Senior Management during 
the financial year ending 30 June 2013.
The LTPP was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 
2003. Awards under the LTPP are at the discretion of the Committee, 
taking into account individual performance and the overall performance 
of the Group. An employee is not eligible to receive options under the 
ESOS and awards under the LTPP in the same financial year. The 
ten year limit on powers to grant any awards under the current LTPP 
expires on 12 November 2013. Consequently, a resolution seeking the 
approval of shareholders to extend the LTPP for a further ten years, to 
12 November 2023, will be proposed at the 2012 AGM. The Committee 
has also taken this opportunity to review and update the rules of the 
LTPP in order to take into account legislative changes and to include 
specific provisions relating to the Committee's power of clawback. 
Further details can be found in the Notice of the 2012 AGM. 
Any LTPP awards that are made in the 2012/13 financial year (the 
 2012/13 LTPP Award') will not exceed 200% of base salary for each of 
the Executive Directors and 150% of base salary for all other participants. 
The 2012/13 LTPP Award will be subject to three-year TSR and EPS 
conditions. The vesting of half of the 2012/13 LTPP Award subject to 
a TSR condition will be dependent upon the Company's performance 
over three years, commencing 1 July 2012, against the constituents 
of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts).
Levels of vesting against the TSR condition will be as follows:
Rank of Company's TSR against 
comparator group
Level of vesting  
of TSR element
Upper Quartile or above 100%
Median 25%
Below Median 0%
Between Upper Quartile 
and Median
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 100%
The other half of the award which is based on an EPS measure will 
vest on the attainment of the EPS target for the financial year ending 
30 June 2015. Reflecting the significant improvement in the Company's 
performance, current consensus targets for profit before tax for the 
financial year 2014/15, the Board's assessment of the optimal scale 
of the business and the need to ensure continued focus on managing 
debt, the levels of vesting against the EPS will be as follows: 
EPS target - Financial year 2014/15
Level of vesting  
of EPS element
26 pence per share or higher 100%
22 pence per share 50%
18 pence per share 25%
Below 18 pence per share 0%
Between 22 pence and 26 pence 
per share
Straight-line basis  
between 50% and 100%
Between 18 pence and 22  
pence per share
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 50% BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
employees of the Group to participate. Under the SRSOS, employees 
can save up to  250 per month for three or five years and receive options 
to purchase the Company's shares at a discount of up to 20% on the 
market value. In March 2012, 1,623 employees (39.5% of those eligible) 
applied to participate in the fourth grant of options under the SRSOS at 
an exercise price of 125 pence per share. 
Outstanding Executive share awards
Long-Term Performance Plan
In December 2010 the Company made awards under the LTPP 
(the  2010/11 LTPP'). These awards were based on an allocation of 
ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 150% of base 
salary and are subject to three-year TSR and EPS performance 
conditions. There is no re-testing of performance conditions. 
Performance conditions
Half of the 2010/11 LTPP will vest on the attainment of a performance 
target based on TSR over a three-year performance period commencing 
1 July 2010.
The levels of vesting against the TSR targets are as follows:
Rank of Company's TSR against 
comparator group
Level of vesting  
of TSR element
Upper Quartile and above 100%
Median 25%
Below Median 0%
Between Upper Quartile 
and Median
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 100%
The other half of the 2010/1 1 LTPP will vest on the attainment of EPS 
targets for the financial year ending 30 June 2013. The Committee believed 
given the macroeconomic uncertainties surrounding the Group's future 
performance at that time that a wide target range should be set for the 
EPS element in order to ensure full engagement from management by 
having an achievable minimum vesting level whilst requiring outstanding 
performance to achieve maximum level of vesting. Accordingly, the EPS 
targets and corresponding levels of vesting are as follows:
 
EPS target - Financial year 2012/13
Level of vesting  
of EPS element
25 pence per share or higher 100%
10 pence per share 25%
Less than 10 pence per share 0%
Between 10 pence and  
25 pence per share
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 100%
In addition to the above performance targets, the 2010/11 LTPP is subject 
to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be 
satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the 
performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by 
applying the above targets. If the Committee is not of this view, it has 
the authority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate. 
Executive Share Option Plan
The award granted under the Executive Share Option Plan (the  ESOP') 
in 2003 at an exercise price of 357 .37 pence per share vested in 2006, 
however, there are a number of participants, including Steven Boyes, 
who are still to exercise the options granted to them. 
 Executive share awards granted during the year 
Long-Term Performance Plan
During the year the Company granted LTPP awards to the Executive 
Directors (the  2011/12 LTPP'). The 2011/12 LTPP was based on an 
allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 150% 
of base salary and is subject to three-year TSR and EPS performance 
conditions. There is no re-testing of performance conditions.
Performance conditions
Half of the 2011/12 LTPP will vest on the attainment of a performance 
target based on TSR over a three-year performance period commencing 
1 July 2011.
The levels of vesting against the TSR targets are as follows:
Rank of Company's TSR against 
comparator group
Level of vesting  
of TSR element
Upper Quartile and above 100%
Median 25%
Below Median 0%
Between Upper Quartile 
and Median
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 100%
The other half of the 2011/12 LTPP will vest on the attainment of EPS 
targets for the financial year ending 30 June 2014. The Committee 
believed given the macroeconomic uncertainties surrounding the 
Group's future performance at that time, that a wide target range should 
be set for the EPS element in order to ensure full engagement from 
management by having an achievable minimum vesting level whilst 
requiring outstanding performance to achieve maximum level of vesting. 
Accordingly, the EPS targets and corresponding levels of vesting are 
as follows:
 
EPS target - Financial year 2013/14
Level of vesting  
of EPS element
30 pence per share or higher 100%
12.5 pence per share 25%
Below 12.5 pence per share 0%
Between 12.5 pence  
and 30 pence per share
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 100%
In addition to the above performance targets, the 2011/12 LTPP is subject 
to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be 
satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the 
performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by 
applying the above targets. If the Committee is not of this view, it has 
the authority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate. 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
The Savings Related Share Option Scheme (the  SRSOS') was 
approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 2008.
The SRSOS was implemented in order to promote share ownership 
amongst all employees of the Group, linking employee benefit to the 
performance of the Group and to aid retention of staff. All employees and 
Executive Directors who work more than 25 hours per week, and have 
five or more years of continuous service with the Company (or any 
subsidiary in the Group nominated to join in the SRSOS) ending on the 
date of grant are eligible to participate in the scheme. The Board has 
discretion to reduce the period of qualifying service and to invite other  60 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
of each of the financial years during the performance period and each 
year's EPS target will determine the vesting level of one sixth of the total 
award. It should be noted that the approach of using three one-year 
targets was adopted due to the uncertain economic conditions 
prevailing in 2009 when options under the ESOS were first granted. 
The Committee has since reverted back to the policy of setting 
three-year targets.
The EPS targets are before exceptional items and the impact of the 
reduction in the corporation tax rate from 28% to 24%. The level of 
vesting for the financial years ended 30 June 2010, 2011 and 2012 
were as follows:
2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
Amount of EPS Element 
Available for Vesting  
(one third of 50%) 16.67% 16.67% 16.67%
Minimum Target 5.8 pence 2.8 pence -4.4 pence
On Target 7.3 pence 4.3 pence -2.8 pence
Maximum Target 8.9 pence 7.3 pence 1.8 pence
Achievement Against Target 100.0% 39.0% 57.6%
Actual Level of Vesting 16.7% 6.5% 9.6%*
* In 2010 the Company disclosed that 10.17% of the award had vested for the 2009/10 financial year. Due 
to a change in the Group's tax charge for that year, which was included in the 2010 published financial 
statements, the Company's EPS was marginally reduced. Accordingly, the level of vesting was reduced to 9.6%.
Subject to the Committee's overriding discretion to take into account, 
among other factors, performance relative to the sector and the 
underlying financial performance of the business, including free cash 
flow, when deciding if the level of vesting is justified, a cumulative total 
of 32.8% of the award is likely to vest on 10 December 2012 (being  
three years from the date of grant). Executive Directors and the Senior 
Management will then have until 10 December 2019 to exercise their 
options, otherwise they will lapse.
Executive share awards lapsed during the year
Executive Share Option Scheme
The options granted under the 2008/09 ESOS were subject to a 
Return on Capital Employed ( ROCE') financial performance measure, 
calculated as operating profit (measured across the whole financial 
year to 30 June 2011) divided by shareholder funds plus net debt less 
goodwill and intangible assets (being the average of the 12 month-end 
figures during the same year). There is no opportunity to retest any 
performance criteria. 
The options were tested during the 2011/12 financial year and, as the 
ROCE performance target had not been achieved, the options lapsed.
Recruitment Award to Group Finance Director
The recruitment award made to David Thomas in recognition of his loss 
of benefit under his previous employer's long-term incentive and share 
option plans, which was subject to the same performance targets as 
the options granted under the 2008/09 ESOS and was on substantially 
the same terms and conditions as those options, was also tested and 
lapsed after 30 June 2011.
Dilution
On maturity or vesting of any of its share incentive schemes the Company 
seeks to satisfy the shares through: a new issue of shares; market 
purchases; or the Employee Benefit Trust (the  EBT'). As at 30 June 2012 
The ESOP was adopted by the Company in November 1997 . Any 
options granted under the ESOP are required to be held for a minimum 
of three years from the date of grant before they can be exercised and 
will lapse if not exercised within ten years of the grant date. The level 
of vesting of these options was subject to the achievement of objective 
performance conditions set by the Committee.
Under the rules of the ESOP no further options can be granted under 
this plan. Options which have been granted to Executive Directors 
in previous years remain unchanged and are set out on page 65.
Vesting of the 2009/10 ESOS 
The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 
2008. It was the view of the Committee that the focus on share price 
growth arising from the use of market value options combined with 
performance conditions would ensure strong alignment with the 
interests and expectations of shareholders at the time. Options awarded 
under the ESOS must normally be held for a minimum of three years 
from the date of grant before they can be exercised and lapse if not 
exercised within ten years of grant. The maximum number of shares 
over which an employee may be granted options in any financial year 
under the ESOS will be limited so that the aggregate cost of exercise 
does not exceed 200% of their annual base salary. The exercise 
of options granted under the ESOS is subject to the achievement 
of objective performance conditions set by the Committee.
As the Committee has decided to grant awards under the LTPP for the 
2012/13 financial year it will not be making any grants under the ESOS 
as an employee is not eligible to receive options under the ESOS and 
awards under the LTPP in the same financial year. 
The last grant made under the ESOS was the 2009/10 ESOS, which is 
subject to TSR and EPS performance conditions. The Committee chose 
these targets as the most appropriate measure of financial performance 
for a house builder at the time of the grant, as they are a fundamental 
measure of the Group's underlying performance and are directly linked 
to the generation of returns to shareholders.
Performance conditions
Half of the 2009/10 ESOS will vest on the attainment of a performance 
target based on relative TSR, and the other half on the attainment of 
a target based on EPS growth. 
Levels of vesting against the TSR targets were as follows:
Rank of Company's TSR against 
comparator group
Level of vesting  
of TSR element
Upper Quartile or above 100%
Median 25%
Below Median 0%
Between Upper Quartile 
and Median
Straight-line basis  
between 25% and 100%
The TSR element was tested after 30 June 2012 and as the result 
was below median, none of the TSR element of the award will vest.
The EPS element of the award has three separate annual components 
with the Committee setting targets annually for the following financial 
year. Performance against each annual EPS target is tested at the end  BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
Pension benefits 
The Company's pension policy for Executive Directors is that they can 
choose to participate in the Company's money purchase pension plan 
or receive a cash supplement that does not count for incentive purposes. 
Only the base salary element of a Director's remuneration is pensionable. 
The defined benefit section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life 
Assurance Scheme (the  Scheme') was closed to new entrants in 2001 
and it ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefits for current 
members with effect from 30 June 2009. Mark Clare is paid a cash 
supplement equal to 30% of his base salary per annum. David Thomas 
was, for the 2011/12 financial year, entitled to a cash supplement equal 
to 25% of his base salary, 18.5% of which he received in cash and the 
remaining 6.25% was paid into the defined contribution section of the 
Scheme. For 2012/13 financial year David Thomas' cash supplement 
has been increased to 30% of base salary so that it corresponds with 
the rate given to the other Executive Directors. 
Up until 30 June 2009, when the defined benefit section of the Scheme 
ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefits for current employees, 
Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton were members of the defined benefit 
section of the Scheme. This entitlement was based on a 1/60 accrual 
rate and a normal retirement age of 65. The entitlement of Clive Fenton 
was restricted by the earnings cap imposed under the Finance Act 
1989 for service up to 5 April 2006 and thereafter was calculated by 
reference to his base salary. Since 1 July 2009, Steven Boyes and 
Clive Fenton have been entitled to receive a cash supplement equal 
to 30% of their respective base salaries per annum. Steven Boyes 
receives the full 30% as a cash supplement and, until his resignation 
from the Board on 5 July 2012, Clive Fenton received 18.68% as a  
cash supplement and the remaining 11.32% was paid into the defined 
contribution section of the Scheme.
The last full actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 November 2010 
showed a deficit of  66.5m calculated on the basis of the Scheme's 
technical provisions. The Company and the Trustees of the Scheme have 
agreed a plan to pay off the shortfall which requires the Company to 
continue to make deficit reduction payments of  13.3m per annum until 
31 January 2017 . The valuation for the financial statements was updated 
to 30 June 2012 by a qualified independent actuary and a deficit of 
 21.4m (2011:  11.8m) is included in the Group balance sheet as shown 
in note 26 of the financial statements. On 30 June 2009, the Company 
exercised its consent under the rules of the Scheme and agreed to cease 
offering future accrual of defined benefits for its current employees. 
Members of the Scheme became eligible to join the defined contribution 
money purchase section of the Scheme with effect from 1 July 2009. 
The Company will continue to pay the deficit reduction contributions  
at a level not lower than the  13.3m agreed in December 2008 and will 
discuss the funding requirements of the Scheme with the Trustees if any 
material change in the Group's financial circumstances is anticipated.
Members of the Scheme are also eligible for an insured lump sum 
of up to five times pensionable salary on death in service. Current 
employees who were members of the defined benefit section of the 
Scheme at closure also retain their dependants' pension entitlements.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by 
current and/or past directors in respect of their qualifying services during 
the financial year and there are no arrangements in place that guarantee 
pensions with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
the Company proposes to satisfy outstanding options under the 2009/10 
ESOS, the SRSOS and the ESOP through a new issue of shares. All other 
share schemes, including the LTPP , are to be satisfied through shares 
currently held or to be purchased in the market by the EBT.
The Company regularly monitors the number of shares issued under 
its schemes and the impact on dilution limits. The Company is satisfied 
that as at 30 June 2012 its usage of shares is compliant with the relevant 
dilution limits set by the ABI in respect of all share plans (10% of the 
Company's issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period) and 
discretionary share plans (5% of the Company's issued share capital 
in any rolling ten-year period). In the event that the outstanding options 
under each of the schemes to be satisfied through a new issue of 
shares were to vest and had been exercised on 30 June 2012, the 
resulting issue of new shares would represent 1.34% of the Company's 
issued share capital as at that date.
Change of Control
The rules of each share scheme operated by the Company contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. In the event that a change 
of control does occur any unvested options/awards will become vested 
on the date of the relevant event. However, the number of options/
awards that vest will be pro-rated depending on the number of weeks 
completed within the relevant performance period and the level of 
performance conditions achieved during that period. Options/awards 
which have already vested as at the date of the relevant event may 
still be exercised within prescribed timescales set out in the rules.
Total Shareholder Return performance graph
Figure 1, prepared in accordance with the Regulations, shows the TSR 
performance over the last five years against the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts) and against an index of listed house builders. The 
Board has chosen these comparative indices as the Group and its 
major competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices. 
The TSR has been calculated using a fair method in accordance 
with the Regulations.
Figure 1:
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
1
2
3
Total shareholder return 
Value  
1. FTSE 250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) 
2. Index of listed house builders 
3. Barratt Developments
30.06.07 30.06.08 30.06.09 30.06.10 30.06.11 30.06.12
This graph shows the value by 30 June 2012 of  100 invested in Barratt 
Developments PLC on 30 June 2007 compared with the value of  100 
invested in the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). As a supplementary 
source of information, we also show performance against an index of 
currently listed house builders (excluding Barratt Developments PLC). 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. 62 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
and the Senior Independent Director received an additional annual 
fee of  5,000. In May 2012 the Board reviewed the roles of the 
Non-Executive Directors and decided that with effect from 1 July 2012 
all Non-Executive Directors would sit on each of its committees. 
In recognition of the additional time commitments this would entail 
and taking into consideration the results of a benchmarking exercise 
undertaken by NBS on Non-Executive Directors' fees, it was agreed 
to increase the Non-Executive Directors' base annual fee to  48,000 
with effect from the same date. It should be noted that this is the only 
fee increase for Non-Executive Directors in the last four years and that 
the total fees, after the increase, are still within the fee limits included in 
the Articles of Association with the approval of shareholders at the 2008 
annual general meeting. The Non-Executive Directors do not participate 
in any performance related schemes such as the annual bonus or any 
incentive schemes, nor do they receive any pension or private medical 
insurance benefits. 
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed 
under terms set out in a letter of appointment. They do not have service 
contracts and their appointments can be terminated (by the Board) 
without compensation for loss of office and by giving the appropriate 
length of notice as prescribed in their respective letters of appointment. 
The notice period applicable for the Chairman, Bob Lawson, is three 
months and for each of the other Non-Executive Directors the notice 
period is one month. Under governance policies approved by the Board, 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and usually 
serve a second three-year term subject to performance review and 
re-election by shareholders. Beyond this a further term of up to three 
years may be served subject to rigorous review by the Chairman and 
the Nomination Committee and re-election by shareholders. Details of 
Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment can be found in Table 4.
Table 4 - Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment 
Non-Executive 
Director
Date last re-elected 
at AGM
Date first 
appointed  
to the Board
Date last 
re-appointed 
to the Board
Bob Lawson 16 November 2011 1 June 2008 1 June 2011
Bob Davies 16 November 2011 5 May 2004 1 July 2011
Tessa Bamford 16 November 2011 1 July 2009 1 July 2012
Rod 
MacEachrane 16 November 2011 1 May 2006 1 July 2011
Mark Rolfe 16 November 2011 1 May 2008 1 May 2011
Richard Akers N/A 2 April 2012 N/A
Service contracts 
In accordance with the Company's policy, it engages all Executive 
Directors on the basis of one-year rolling contracts which can be 
terminated by 12 months' notice given by either the Company or by the 
Executive at any time. There are no specific provisions for compensation 
on early termination (except for payment in lieu of holidays accrued but 
untaken) or loss of office due to a takeover bid. The Committee will apply 
mitigation against any contractual obligations as it deems fair and 
reasonable and will seek legal advice on the Company's liability to pay 
compensation. The Committee also seeks to reduce the level of any 
compensation payable and takes into account, amongst other factors, 
the individual's and the Group's performance; the Director's obligation 
to mitigate his/her own loss; and the Director's length of service when 
calculating termination payments. The contracts entitle Executive 
Directors to the provision of a company car, annual medical screening, 
private medical insurance, some telephone costs and contributions to 
the cost of obtaining independent tax advice. Details of the Executive 
Directors' service contracts are included in Table 3 and their emoluments 
are shown in Table 5 on page 63 of this Remuneration Report. 
Table 3 - Executive Directors' service contracts 
Executive  
Director
Service  
contract date
Effective  
date
Notice  
period
Mark Clare 27 June 2006 2 October 2006 12 months
David Thomas 5 May 2009 21 July 2009 12 months
Steven Boyes 25 June 2001 1 July 2001 12 months
Clive Fenton* 1 July 2003 1 July 2003 12 months
* Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company on 5 July 2012 as set out on page 56 of this 
Remuneration Report.
Non-Executive directorships
Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept 
one Non-Executive directorship outside the Company and retain any 
fees received from such a position. Executive Directors are not allowed 
to take on the Chairmanship of any FTSE 100 company. Board approval 
will not be given for any Non-Executive position where such appointment 
would lead to a material conflict of interest or would have an effect on 
the Director's ability to perform his/her duties to the Company. During 
the year Mark Clare was a trustee and Director of the BRE Trust and 
UKGBC Limited. Mark Clare does not receive any fees for either of these 
positions. The time commitment expected, in aggregate, for these 
positions is approximately 25 hours per annum. Neither David Thomas 
nor Steven Boyes held any Non-Executive directorships with other 
companies during the year.
 
Non-Executive Directors' remuneration
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board 
on the recommendation of a Committee of Executive Directors having 
regard to the time commitment and responsibilities associated with 
the role. The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Committee again having regard to the time 
commitment and responsibilities of the role. The remuneration of the 
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually taking 
into account the fees paid by other companies in the house building sector. 
The base annual fee paid to Non-Executive Directors during the financial 
year ended 30 June 2012 was  40,000. The Chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees received an additional annual fee of  10,000  BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
The following tables and accompanying notes constitute the auditable part of the Remuneration Report as defined in the Regulations:
Table 5 - Directors' emoluments
Salary/fee  
 000
Pension 
allowance  
 000
Employer's 
pension 
contribution 
 000
Performance 
related  
 000
Benefits  
in kind  
 000
2012  
Total  
 000
2011  
Total  
 000
2012  
Gain on 
exercise of 
share  
options  
 000
2011  
Gain on 
exercise of 
share  
options  
 000
Mark Clare 643 193 - 956 38 1,830 1,221 13 -
David Thomas 408 77 25 607 15 1,132 748 - -
Steven Boyes 390 117 - 580 26 1,113 744 13 -
Clive Fenton^^^ 390 73 44 - 27 534 747 11 -
Bob Lawson 270 - - - - 270 270 - -
Bob Davies^ 55 - - - - 55 55 - -
Tessa Bamford^^ 40 - - - - 40 40 - -
Rod MacEachrane 40 - - - - 40 40 - -
Mark Rolfe^ 50 - - - - 50 50 - -
Richard Akers* 10 - - - - 10 - - -
2012 Total 2,296 460 69 2,143 106 5,074 - 37 -
2011 Total 2,298 487 42 1,007 93 - 3,927** - -
* Richard Akers joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2012.
** This figure includes  12,000 in relation to William Shannon who resigned as a Director of the Company on 21 October 2010.
^ These figures include fees in respect of Chairmanship of Board Committees and, in the case of Bob Davies, the fee for his role as Senior Independent Director.
^^ Following Tessa Bamford's appointment as a consultant with Spencer Stuart on 18 April 2011, her fees are paid directly, on a quarterly basis, to Spencer Stuart. For the year 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 inclusive,  
the Company paid the full  40,000 to Spencer Stuart for her services to the Board. 
^^^ Clive Fenton resigned as a Director on 5 July 2012. Details of the arrangements in respect of such resignation are set out on page 56 of this Remuneration Report.
The Executive Directors receive taxable benefits in kind covering the provision of a motor vehicle, private medical insurance, some telephone 
costs and payment towards the cost of obtaining independent tax advice.
There was no compensation for loss of office paid or any taxable expenses paid to any former or current Director of the Company during 
the financial year. There were also no significant awards made to past directors during the reporting year. 64 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors' interests in shares
The interests of the Directors serving during the financial year and their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the 
beginning and end of the year are shown below. No notification has been received of any change in the interests below during the period 30 June 
2012 to 11 September 2012 inclusive, with the exception of the shares to be deferred in respect of the bonus earned in excess of 100% of base 
salary by Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2012 as described on page 57 of the Remuneration Report and the lapsing 
of outstanding options held by Clive Fenton upon his resignation as a Director on 5 July 2012.
Table 6 - Directors' interests in shares
30 June 2012 30 June 2011
Fully  
paid
Number  
of share  
options  
and awards
Fully  
paid
Number  
of share  
options  
and awards**
Mark Clare 1,241,601 3,163,862 1,225,179 3,619,533
David Thomas 292,781 2,012,786 267,781 2,296,244
Steven Boyes 394,246 2,040,023 377,824 2,221,546
Clive Fenton 307,446 1,869,704*** 291,024 2,067,649
Bob Lawson 517,023 - 517,023 -
Bob Davies 37,000 - 37,000 -
Rod MacEachrane 27,600 - 27,600 -
Tessa Bamford 31,500 - 31,500 -
Mark Rolfe 69,000 - 69,000 -
Richard Akers* 10,000 - - -
* Richard Akers joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2012.
** These figures include the options granted under the 2008/09 ESOS and the recruitment award made in 2009 to the Group Finance Director, as applicable, which were tested after the financial year ended 30 June 2011  
and have lapsed. In aggregate the figure as at 30 June 2011 in Table 6 includes 4,397,039 awards under the 2008/09 ESOS which have now lapsed.
*** All outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton lapsed on 5 July 2012 upon his resignation as a Director.
 
Table 7 - Long-Term Incentive Schemes
Details of movements in the Directors' interests in executive long-term incentive schemes are as follows:
Date of  
award
At  
30/06/11  
No.
Granted  
No.
Vested  
No.
Lapsed  
No.
At  
30/06/12  
No.
Date 
from which 
exercisable*
Market  
price on 
award
 pence 
Market  
price at
 vesting 
pence 
Gain  
receivable  
 
Mark Clare
LTPP 14.10.2010 963,900 - - - 963,900 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 - 1,154,786 - - 1,154,786 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
Total 963,900 1,154,786 - - 2,118,686
David Thomas
LTPP 14.10.2010 612,000 - - - 612,000 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 - 733,198 - - 733,198 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
Total 612,000 733,198 - - 1,345,198
Steven Boyes
LTPP 14.10.2010 585,000 - - - 585,000 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 - 700,851 - - 700,851 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
Total 585,000 700,851 - - 1,285,851
Clive Fenton
LTPP 14.10.2010 585,000 - - - 585,000 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 - 700,851 - - 700,851 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
Total 585,000 700,851 - - 1,285,851**
* The earliest date on which an award may vest, in normal circumstances, having fulfilled all qualifying conditions, after which ordinary shares are transferred automatically as soon as possible.
**  All outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton lapsed on 5 July 2012 upon his resignation as a Director. BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
Table 8 - Directors' share options 
Details of movements in the Directors' interests in executive share options are as follows:
Date of  
grant
At  
30/06/11  
No.
Granted  
No.
Exercised  
No.
Lapsed  
No.
At  
30/06/12  
No.
Exercise  
price  
pence
Market price 
(pence) on 
relevant date 
of exercise
Date  
from  
which 
exercisable 
Latest  
expiry
Mark Clare
ESOS 18.12.2008 74,998 - - 74,998 - 40.00 18.12.2011 17.12.2018
ESOS 18.12.2008 1,526,237 - - 1,526,237 - 36.40 18.12.2011 17.12.2018
SRSOS 03.02.2009 16,422 - 16,422 - - 57.08 139.00 01.04.2012 30.09.2012
ESOS 10.12.2009 1,037,976 - - - 1,037,976 121.39 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2012 - 7,200 - - 7,200 125.00 01.06.2015 30.11.2015
Total 2,655,633 7,200 16,422 1,601,235 1,045,176
David Thomas
ESOS 25.09.2009 1,016,656 - - 1,016,656 - 36.06 17.12.2011 16.12.2018
ESOS 10.12.2009 25,458 - - - 25,458 117.84 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
ESOS 10.12.2009 634,319 - - - 634,319 121.39 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2010 7,811 - - - 7,811 116.18 01.06.2013 30.11.2013
Total 1,684,244 - - 1,016,656 667,588
Steven Boyes
ESOS 18.12.2008 74,998 - - 74,998 - 40.00 18.12.2011 17.12.2018
ESOS 18.12.2008 814,576 - - 814,576 - 36.40 18.12.2011 17.12.2018
ESOP* 10.10.2003 153,897 - - - 153,897 357.37 10.10.2006 09.10.2013
SRSOS 03.02.2009 16,422 - 16,422 - - 57.08 133.70 01.04.2012 30.09.2012
ESOS 10.12.2009 576,653 - - - 576,653 121.39 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2012 - 7,200 - - 7,200 125.00 01.06.2015 30.11.2015
Total 1,636,546 7,200 16,422 889,574 737,750
Clive Fenton
ESOS 18.12.2008 74,998 - - 74,998 - 40.00 18.12.2011 17.12.2018
ESOS 18.12.2008 814,576 - - 814,576 - 36.40 18.12.2011 17.12.2018
SRSOS 03.02.2009 16,422 - 16,422 - - 57.08 124.00 01.04.2012 30.09.2012
ESOS 10.12.2009 576,653 - - - 576,653 121.39 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2012 - 7,200 - - 7,200 125.00 01.06.2015 30.11.2015
Total 1,482,649 7,200 16,422 889,574 583,853**
*   The performance condition set by the Committee for the ESOP award granted in 2003, that the growth in EPS of the Company over a period of three consecutive financial years should exceed the growth in the RPI by at least 9%,
was met in 2006, but the option has not yet been exercised.
** All outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton lapsed on 5 July 2012 upon his resignation as a Director.
The ESOS is divided into two sub-schemes, one of which is approved under the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 and the other of which 
is not. The exercise price is calculated differently for each sub-scheme in accordance with the rules of the ESOS. The performance conditions for the 
ESOS grants are described on page 60.
The performance conditions of the 2008/09 ESOS awards together with the performance condition of the recruitment award to the Group Finance 
Director made in 2009 were tested after the year end and none of the conditions had been achieved. Accordingly, the 2008/09 ESOS awards and 
the recruitment award to the Group Finance Director lapsed.
The mid-market share price of the Company on 30 June 2012 was 139.1 pence. The mid-market high and low share prices of the Company during 
the year were 151.5 pence and 67 .5 pence respectively.  66 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT
Table 9 - Directors' pension benefits
Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton were members of the Scheme during the year ended 30 June 2012. Details of their accrued benefits are as follows:
Increase in 
accrued pension 
over the year to  
30 June 2012  
(net of inflation)  
 
Total pension 
accrued at the 
end of the year  
 
Transfer value of 
the increase in 
accrued pension 
over the year to  
30 June 2012  
(net of inflation) 
less Directors' 
contributions  
 
Increase in 
accrued pension 
over the year to  
30 June 2012  
 
Transfer value of 
accrued pension 
at 30 June 2012  
 
Transfer value of 
accrued pension at 
30 June 2011  
 
Change in transfer 
value over the year 
 
Steven Boyes (192) 299,595 (4,431) 15,706 6,252,591 4,477,540 1,775,051
Clive Fenton (31) 45,765 (664) 2,397 880,815 642,697 238,118
Notes
With effect from 30 June 2009, the Scheme ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefit pensions for current employees and the link between 
accrued benefits and future salary increases was removed. As the Scheme is closed, no Directors have made any contributions to the Scheme 
during the year to 30 June 2012.
The total pension accrued at the end of the year is the amount that each Director had accrued when the Scheme ceased to offer future accrual 
at 30 June 2009 plus revaluation in accordance with the Scheme rules.
The inflation figure of 5.6% is based on the change in RPI from September 2010 to September 2011, consistent with previous years.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Value) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2008. The transfer values of the accrued pension represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need 
to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Scheme's liability in respect of the Directors' pension benefits. They do not represent 
sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The increase in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and 
its Directors, such as market movements and the Trustees' decision to update the assumptions used.
The figures do not take account of any retained benefits the members may have.
Except as disclosed in respect of Clive Fenton and David Thomas on pages 61 and 63, none of the Directors have any rights under the Company's 
money purchase pension scheme.
This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 11 September 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
Robert Davies
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
11 September 2012