 Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present my fi rst Directors' Remuneration Report for the 
fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013 (the  Remuneration Report') on behalf 
of the Remuneration Committee (the  Committee'). We will, as in previous 
years, be seeking an advisory vote for the Remuneration Report at the 
Company's 2013 Annual General Meeting (the  2013 AGM'). After taking 
over as Chairman of the Committee in November 2012, I commissioned 
New Bridge Street ( NBS') to undertake a review of the Company's 
remuneration policy (the  Remuneration Policy') in order for the Committee 
to assess whether it: (i) continued to be aligned to the Group's strategic 
objectives of increasing profi tability; maintaining an appropriate capital 
structure; and improving the return on capital employed ( Our Strategic 
Objectives'); and (ii) refl ected the current economic environment. 
This review was undertaken during the fi rst quarter of 2013 and took 
into account remuneration guidance, views of major institutional 
shareholders and the themes arising from the review of executive 
remuneration by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 
( BIS') and the regulations proposed by BIS, which were subsequently 
published in fi nal form in June 2013 (the  BIS Regulations').
Remuneration policy
After analysis at its April 2013 meeting, the Committee concluded that 
the Remuneration Policy remains appropriate and continues to align the 
fi xed and variable elements of Executive remuneration with Our Strategic 
Objectives. Details of how the Committee sets Executive Director and 
Senior Management remuneration, the key elements of Executive Director 
and Senior Management remuneration and pension arrangements 
can be found on the following pages of this report.
Factors considered by the Committee when assessing 
Executive remuneration 
In assessing Executive remuneration for the 2012/13 fi nancial year, the 
Committee took account of the following factors, refl ecting management 
actions during the year:
  the increase of operating profi t before exceptional items by 32.2% 
to  252.7m (2012:  191.1m) and of profi t before tax and exceptional 
items by 73.7% to  192.3m (2012:  110.7m). The launch of the Help 
to Buy scheme on 1 April undoubtedly assisted 2013 sales, however 
its impact was restricted to the fi nal quarter of the fi nancial year; 
  total completions (including joint ventures) of 13,663 (2012: 12,857);
  continued progress with reduction in the Group's net debt from 
 167.7m at 30 June 2012 to  25.9m at 30 June 2013, refl ecting the 
timing of land payments and a higher level of year end completions; 
  the progress in transforming the Group's land bank. The Group has 
approved the purchase of 18,536 plots (2012: 12,085 plots) with a value 
of  1,047 .3m (2012:  578. 1m). Focusing upon maximising return on capital 
employed, the Group has achieved 3.4 years' supply of owned land 
and one year's supply of land contracts conditional on planning;
  the standard of build quality and customer satisfaction delivered. 
During the year, the Group received 102 awards for quality workmanship 
in the annual National House-Building Council ( NHBC')  Pride in the Job' 
Awards. This is the highest number ever won by a single housebuilder 
and the ninth consecutive year our site managers have gained more 
awards than any other housebuilder. The Group also achieved the 
maximum 5 Star rating from the Home Builders Federation for 
a fourth consecutive year;
  health and safety performance. All divisions within the Group achieved 
the 93% benchmark that site managers must meet under our proactive 
safety, health and environment auditing matrix. There were further 
reductions in our Reportable Injury Incidence Rate and we achieved the 
NHBC National Best Health and Safety Award for a multi-storey site; 
  the comprehensive refi nancing package has put in place committed 
borrowing facilities of circa  850m, with maturities ranging from 2016 
to 2021. While the refi nancing costs form the principal element in 
exceptional costs of  87 .5m this year, moving forward the underlying 
average interest rate (excluding historic interest rate swaps) is reduced 
to approximately 4.5%; and
  the monetising of part of the Group's equity share portfolio, raising 
 33.7m, which has enhanced the Group's liquidity and land buying abilities.
In addition, the Committee took into account the intention of the Board 
to propose, to shareholders, at the 2013 AGM a conservatively set fi nal 
dividend in respect of the 2012/13 fi nancial year, while reiterating its target 
of a three times dividend cover for the fi nancial year ending 30 June 2016.
After taking all these factors into account, the Committee concluded 
that for the 2012/13 fi nancial year management actions have delivered 
excellent progress in delivering Our Strategic Objectives across all 
operating metrics and have placed the Company in a strong position for 
the future. The Committee also factored into its assessment that some 
of these outcomes (e.g. build quality, customer satisfaction and the health 
and safety performance), together with the Total Shareholder Returns 
( TSR') and Earnings per Share ( EPS') performances of the Company 
since 2010, have created a longer term and sustained management 
focus. Having done so, the Committee reached the following decisions 
in respect of remuneration for the 2012/13 and 2013/14 fi nancial years. 
Base salary 
Following a benchmarking exercise undertaken by NBS, the 
Committee concluded that the level of base salaries for Executive 
Directors and those individuals directly below this level (the  Senior 
Management') remains appropriately positioned in the market. 
Accordingly, salary increases for the 2013/14 fi nancial year have 
been limited to 2.5% for Executive Directors and Senior Management 
in line with the increase awarded to all managers across the Group. 
This increase is slightly lower than the 3% increase awarded to all 
employees below manager level. 
Non-Executive Directors' fees
Non-Executive Directors' base annual fees were increased from 
 40,000 to  48,000, with effect from 1 July 2012, in recognition of the 
additional time commitment expected from them following the Board's 
decision that they should all sit on each of its committees. Bob Lawson 
declined any review of the Chairman's fee and the additional fees paid 
to the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees ( 10,000) 
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF 
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57
REMUNERATION REPORT and the Senior Independent Director ( 5,000) remained unadjusted. 
The Board has agreed that no fee increases will be awarded to any 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, for the 2013/14 
fi nancial year. I can confi rm that Non-Executive Director fees remain 
well within the limit previously approved by shareholders and contained
within the Company's Articles of Association.
2012/13 Annual bonus
In July 2012 when the Committee was setting the objectives for the 
annual bonus, budgeted profi t before tax and exceptional items was 
around  155.0m. Accordingly, the Committee established a target level 
of  155.0m, with a minimum profi t before tax threshold for the bonus 
at  145.0m and a maximum threshold of  175.0m. Taking account 
of the factors summarised above, in particular the Group's signifi cant 
improvement in profi t before tax and exceptional items (which determined 
66.7% of the total bonus for the year), reduction in net debt and the 
individual contributions of all senior managers within the Group to 
achieving strong results across all operating metrics, the Committee, 
in exercising its over arching discretion in relation to bonus awards, 
concluded that a bonus award of 150% of base salary for Executive 
Directors (after taking into account adjustments for the value of land 
and the achievement of personal objectives) was justifi ed. Any bonus 
earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into shares 
for a period of three years and will be subject to a continued employment 
performance condition.
2013/14 Annual bonus
For the 2013/14 fi nancial year, the maximum bonus potential for Executive 
Directors has been maintained at 150% of base salary with any award over 
100% of salary being deferred into shares in the Company for a period of 
three years subject to a continued employment condition. Thereafter, the 
requirements of continued share ownership of at least one times salary 
will apply. The payment for on-target performance will, as per the 2012/13 
fi nancial year, remain at 50% of the maximum potential. Details of the 
performance measures and the weightings against each of them, including 
the penalties for under-performance against health and safety and customer 
satisfaction targets can be found on pages 68 and 69 of this Remuneration 
Report. In addition, there will be an increased focus upon maximising return 
on capital employed and the achievement of a target of 3.5 years' supply of 
owned land and one year's supply of land contracts conditional on planning.
Long-Term Performance Plan ( LTPP')
2013/14 LTPP Award
Consistent with the approach taken last year, the Committee intends 
to make awards to Executive Directors and Senior Management under 
the LTPP during the 2013/14 fi nancial year (the  2013/14 LTPP'). The level 
of the award to be granted will continue to be no more than 200% for the 
Executive Directors. In the case of other participants, awards will be up to 
150% of base salary unless there are exceptional individual circumstances, 
such as planned Board succession or truly exceptional sustained delivery 
during a plan period by an individual. In such cases, the Committee retains 
the discretion to increase a contingent award up to 200%. These awards will 
be subject to a TSR performance target, to be measured over a three-year 
performance period commencing 1 July 2013, and an EPS performance 
target for the fi nancial year ending 30 June 2016. Further details on the 
2013/14 LTPP can be found on page 69 of this Remuneration Report.
Vesting of 2010/11 LTPP Award
The performance period for the award made in October 2010 (the 
 2010/11 LTPP') ended on 30 June 2013. The 2010/11 LTPP was subject 
to two performance conditions, TSR and EPS, each representing 50% 
of the award. 100% of the TSR element vests on the attainment of 
performance which is in the upper quartile or above, 25% vests at 
median and where performance is in between these points, the TSR 
element vests on a straight-line basis. In respect of the EPS element, 
100% of this element vests on the attainment of an EPS target of 25 
pence per share or higher for the fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013, 
25% vests at 10 pence per share and for performance achieved 
between 25% and 100%, vesting is on a straight-line basis. 
Both performance conditions were tested after the fi nancial year end. The 
TSR of the Group was in the upper quartile compared to the performance 
of the comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts) and therefore 100% of this element will 
vest. In terms of the EPS, the Group achieved adjusted basic EPS of 
14.6 pence per share (basic EPS 7.7 pence per share) and accordingly 
47.8% of the EPS element will also vest. The participants of the 2010/11 
LTPP will therefore receive 73.9% of the award granted to them in 
October 2010. The award vests in October 2013 and the relevant 
number of shares will be issued to the participants at that point. 
 
Service contracts
During the year the Committee tasked the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary with reviewing the service contracts for Executive 
Directors and Senior Management to ensure that they were up to date
and compliant with developments in Company and Employment law.
Governance and Shareholder consultation
Throughout the year the Committee complied with those aspects 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the  Code') relevant to its 
business and took into account the remuneration guidelines and 
guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers (the  ABI'), the 
National Association of Pension Funds ( NAPF') and Pensions Investment 
Research Consultants ( PIRC') when setting the Remuneration Policy. 
The Committee continues to seek to demonstrate its accountability on 
executive remuneration to shareholders through this report and through 
regular dialogue. As in previous years, the Committee did engage with 
key institutional investors and shareholder representative bodies in 
respect of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Senior 
Management for the forthcoming year and took into account the feedback 
received from this process, when setting the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee will consider both the shareholders' vote on the report 
and views expressed by shareholders on the detail of this report at the 
2013 AGM in determining future remuneration policy for all employees. 
To provide our shareholders with the opportunity to familiarise themselves 
with, and to provide feedback on, our proposed approach to reporting
on remuneration in respect of the 2013/14 fi nancial year when the BIS 
Regulations become mandatory for the Group, we have restructured 
the contents of this report to refl ect the  Directors' Remuneration Policy'
and  Annual Report on Remuneration' requirements. 
I hope that you will be able to support the Committee's policy
and Remuneration Report at this year's AGM.
RICHARD AKERS 
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
58 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Total 
Remuneration
Long-term 
Incentives
Annual 
Bonus
Pension 
Benefits
Base 
Salary
Benefits
Fixed pay
++ + + =
Pay for Performance
Performance scenario charts - fi xed and variable pay
The Group's policy seeks to ensure that a substantial proportion of 
Executive Directors' remuneration is performance related and that 
enhanced rewards are only paid for exceptional performance. The 
chart below shows how the composition of each of the Executive 
Directors' remuneration packages varies at different levels of 
performance achievement for the 2013/14 fi nancial year. 
Chart 1: Executive Directors' potential remuneration
Assumptions:
1.   Benefi ts - the value receivable in the 2013/14 fi nancial year 
is taken to be the value received in the 2012/13 fi nancial year as 
disclosed in the Directors' emoluments table on page 70 of this 
Remuneration Report;
2.  Bonus - the on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum 
bonus opportunity. No share price appreciation has been assumed
for the deferred share amount payable at maximum bonus; and
3.  LTPP Award - the on-target vesting level is taken to be 50% and 
the maximum value is taken to be 100% of the face value of the 
award at grant. No share price appreciation has been assumed.
Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance
 000
3,500
3,250
3,000
2,750
2,500
2,250
2,000
1,750
1,500
1,250
1,000
750
500
250
0
100% 39% 28%
Max
100% 39% 28% 100% 39% 28%
32% 31%
29%
On-
Target
Min
Mark Clare,
Group Chief 
Executive
David Thomas,
Group Finance 
Director
Steven Boyes,
Group Chief 
Operating Officer
Max On-
Target
Min Max On-
Target
Min
41%
32% 31% 32% 31%
29% 41% 29% 41%
LTPP award
Basic salary, benefits 
and pension
Bonus
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY
Each year the Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration 
in the context of the business environment, regulation and best practice, 
and market trends for the current and subsequent fi nancial years. The 
fi xed and variable remuneration elements are simple, transparent and 
aligned with the interests of shareholders and designed to refl ect the 
views of our investor shareholder bodies and other stakeholders.
Remuneration strategy
The Group's current Remuneration Policy aims to:
  attract, retain, motivate and competitively reward Executive Directors and 
Senior Management with the experience, skills and ability to support the 
achievement of the Group's key strategic objectives in any fi nancial year; 
  be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives of the 
Group applicable for any fi nancial year; 
  refl ect the interests and expectations of shareholders and 
other stakeholders;
  take account of pay and employment conditions of employees 
across the Group; 
  reward the sustained growth and profi tability of the business, 
the maintenance of an appropriate capital structure and improve 
the return on capital employed by the business; 
  ensure that exceptional performance against challenging targets 
is adequately rewarded;
  ensure Executive Directors and Senior Management maintain a 
long-term focus by deferring any bonus earned in excess of 100%
of base salary into shares for a minimum of three years and also by 
requiring Executive Directors to maintain a signifi cant shareholding
in the Company;
  conform to market-leading best practice and regulations;
  encourage management to adopt a level of risk which is in line with
the risk profi le of the business and as approved by the Board; and
  ensure that there is no reward for failure; that termination payments
are limited to those (if any) that the Executive Director is contractually 
entitled to; and in exercising its discretion, the Committee robustly 
applies the  good' and  bad' leaver provisions as defi ned in the rules 
of each of the share schemes operated by the Group. 
Elements of Executive Directors' total remuneration package
The Executive Directors' total remuneration package is made up of the following components:
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 The following table sets out a summary of the Company's Executive Directors' remuneration package and Non-Executive Directors' fee policy.
A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for the 2013/14 fi nancial year can be found on page 68
of this Remuneration Report.
ELEMENT OF PAY Base salary Taxable benefi ts
PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO COMPANY'S STRATEGY
To attract and retain high-calibre Executive Directors and Senior 
Management required to implement the Group's strategy.
To provide a competitive salary relative to comparable companies 
in terms of size and complexity.
To help attract and retain high-calibre 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Management and to remain competitive 
in the market place.
HOW OPERATED 
IN PRACTICE
Reviewed annually and takes effect from 1 July. 
Review takes into consideration:
(i)  individual responsibilities, skills, experience and performance; 
(ii)  salary levels for similar positions in other major housebuilders 
and other companies considered comparable by reference 
to market capitalisation; 
(iii)  the level of pay increases awarded across the Group 
(with the exception of promotions); 
(iv) economic and market conditions; and
(v) the performance of the Group.
Salaries are paid monthly in arrears in cash.
The Executive Directors' base salaries for the 2013/14 fi nancial year can 
be found on page 69 of this Remuneration Report.
Benefi ts include:
  Company car;
  Annual medical screening;
  Private medical insurance;
  Some telephone costs; and 
   Contributions towards obtaining 
independent tax advice.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY There is no prescribed maximum annual increase. The Committee 
is guided by the general increase for the broader UK employee population 
but on occasions may need to recognise changes in the role and/or 
duties of a Director.
N/A
DESCRIPTION OF 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
N/A N/A
CHANGE TO POLICY No change. No change.
60 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Pension Annual bonus
To help attract and retain high-calibre 
Executive Directors and Senior 
Management and to remain 
competitive in the market place.
To motivate and reward Executive Directors and Senior Management for the achievement of demanding 
fi nancial objectives and key strategic measures over the fi nancial year.
The performance measures set are stretching whilst having regard to the nature and risk profi le 
of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Variable remuneration allows the Group to manage its cost base by giving it the fl exibility to react 
to changes in the market and any unforeseen events.
Executive Directors can elect to either: 
   participate in the Company's money 
purchase scheme; or
  receive a salary supplement.
Executive Directors are also eligible 
to an insured lump sum of up to fi ve 
times pensionable salary on death 
in service.
The Committee sets the performance targets on an annual basis prior to the commencement of 
the forthcoming fi nancial year. Group and individual performance against these targets is measured 
at the end of the fi nancial year and the level of bonus payable is calculated at that point.
Bonuses up to 100% of base salary are paid in cash. Any bonus earned in excess of this (up to 
a maximum of 50% of base salary) is compulsorily deferred into shares for a period of three years, 
subject to a continued employment condition. Deferred shares may be forfeitable if an individual 
leaves prior to the release date. Deferred shares do not accrue dividends.
Clawback may apply to both the cash and deferred element of the bonus, in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error of fi nancial results.
The Committee has the discretion to, and does, consider the effect of corporate performance on 
environmental, social and governance risks and issues when setting the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and Senior Management to ensure that remuneration structures do not inadvertently motivate 
irresponsible behaviour. As a result, part of the bonus outturn may be forfeited in the event of under-
performance in respect of customer service and health and safety performance targets. 
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
30% of base salary. Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
50% of the potential maximum bonus is payable for achievement of on-target performance.
N/A A combination of profi t before tax, overall landbank/indebtedness, personal objectives and employee 
engagement targets with penalties for failure to achieve customer satisfaction and health and safety 
targets. The weightings of each of these measures in respect of the 2013/14 annual bonus can be found 
on page 69 of this Remuneration Report.
The Committee retains an absolute discretion in the making of bonus payments, and will continue to 
consider, among other factors, the underlying fi nancial performance of the business relative to the sector 
in its decision making.
No change. No change for the 2013/14 fi nancial year with the exception of an increased focus upon minimum 
landbank and the personal objectives performance measure for Executive Directors. This performance 
measure makes up 10% of the total annual bonus and is now in two parts for Executive Directors. Half 
of this performance measure is based on the achievement of targets agreed with the Group Chief Executive 
(and in the case of the Group Chief Executive, with the Chairman) and the other half is at the discretion 
of the Committee.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 ELEMENT OF PAY LTPP
1
Deferred Bonus Plan ( DBP')
PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO COMPANY'S STRATEGY
To motivate and reward Executive Directors and Senior Management 
for the delivery of the long-term performance of the Group.
To facilitate share ownership by Executive Directors and Senior Management. 
The Committee ensures that targets, whilst stretching, are: realistic 
and attainable; for the long-term benefi t of the Group; and do not 
encourage inappropriate business risks.
Any annual bonus which is deferred 
into shares is held in this plan.
The aim is to encourage long-term 
focus and to further align interests with 
those of shareholders and discourage 
excessive risk taking.
HOW OPERATED 
IN PRACTICE
LTPP awards:
(i)  are structured as nil-cost options and granted annually so that no 
undue emphasis is placed on performance in any one particular 
fi nancial year;
(ii)  are at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account individual 
performance and the overall performance of the Group;
(iii)  vest on the third anniversary subject to achievement of stretching 
performance conditions measured over three fi nancial years and 
to continued employment; and
(iv)  are satisfi ed by either newly issued shares or shares purchased 
in the market. Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution 
limits set out in the scheme rules and in accordance with 
ABI guidelines.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and/or material 
misstatement or error of fi nancial results.
The Committee utilises the rules 
of the Group's Co-Investment Plan 
(the  CIP') for the purposes of the 
DBP . Under these rules the 
Committee has a discretion which 
allows it to award matching shares 
(the  Matching Award').
However, no Matching Shares are 
currently awarded to Executive 
Directors or Senior Management. 
Clawback may apply in the event of 
material misconduct and/or material 
misstatement or error of fi nancial results.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY The Committee has agreed to grant an award equal to 200% of base 
salary to the Executive Directors. In the case of other participants, 
awards will be up to 150% of base salary, unless there are exceptional 
individual circumstances, such as planned Board succession or truly 
exceptional sustained delivery during a plan period in which case, 
the Committee retains the discretion to increase a contingent award 
up to 200% of base salary.
Any bonus paid in excess of 100% of 
salary is deferred into shares and held
in the CIP .
Participants also have the opportunity 
to voluntarily defer additional amounts 
of annual bonus up to a maximum of 
25% of base salary into the CIP . 
Matching Awards may be made at 
a rate of one for one for compulsory 
deferral and at a maximum of four 
for one for voluntary deferral.
DESCRIPTION OF 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
50% of the LTPP award is subject to a relative TSR condition and 50% 
is subject to absolute EPS targets
2
. 
25% of an award will vest at threshold performance (0% vests below this 
level) increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for maximum performance. 
The levels of vesting in respect of each of the performance conditions for 
the LTPP to be awarded during the 2013/14 fi nancial year and each of the 
outstanding LTPP awards can be found on pages 69 and 72 respectively.
Overall, the Committee must be satisfi ed that the underlying fi nancial 
performance of the Group over the performance period warrants the level 
of vesting as determined by applying the above targets. If the Committee 
is not of this view, then it is empowered to reduce the level of vesting. 
Any shares awarded remain subject 
to a continued employment performance 
condition over a three-year period and 
 good' and  bad' leaver provisions. 
Any Matching Awards will be subject
to performance conditions measured 
over a period of three years.
CHANGE TO POLICY No change. No change.
1 The rules of the LTPP were approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
2  TSR performance condition is monitored on the Committee's behalf by NBS whilst EPS performance is verifi ed by the Committee. The TSR and EPS performance conditions 
were selected by the Committee on the basis that they reward outperformance against returns generated by our listed company peers and to ensure effi cient and effective management 
of our business whilst aligning interests with those of shareholders. 
3 Details of the extent to which the Executive Directors complied with this policy as at 30 June 2013 are set out on page 78 of this Remuneration Report.
62 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme ( SRSOS')
Shareholding guidelines
3
Non-Executive Directors' fees 
(including the Chairman)
To promote long-term share 
ownership amongst all employees 
of the Group in a tax-effi cient way, 
linking employee benefi t to the 
performance of the Group and 
to aid retention of staff.
To further align the interests 
of Executive Directors to those 
of shareholders.
To attract and retain high quality and experienced Non-Executive 
Directors (including the Chairman).
Employees can save up to  250 
per month for three or fi ve years 
and receive options to purchase the 
Company's shares at a discount 
of up to 20% on the market value.
All employees and Executive 
Directors who work more than 
25 hours per week, and have 
fi ve or more years of continuous 
service with the Company (or any 
subsidiary in the Group nominated 
to join in the SRSOS) ending on 
the date of grant are eligible to 
participate in the scheme. The 
Board has discretion to reduce 
the period of qualifying service 
and to invite other employees 
of the Group to participate.
Executive Directors are required to 
build up and retain a shareholding
in the Company's shares within fi ve 
years of being appointed to the 
Board and must retain all vested 
LTPP awards or exercised options 
(both net of tax) until the relevant 
shareholding has been achieved.
The share price used for the 
purposes of determining the value 
of the shares is that prevailing 
on 30 June in each year.
There is no mandatory 
requirement for the Non-Executive 
Directors, including the Chairman, 
to hold shares however they 
are encouraged to do so by 
the Committee.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board 
on the recommendation of a Committee of Executive Directors having 
regard to the time commitment and responsibilities associated with 
the role. The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board 
on the recommendation of the Committee again having regard 
to the time commitment and responsibilities of the role. 
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
is reviewed annually taking into account the fees paid by other 
companies in the housebuilding sector. 
Non-Executive Director fees are paid in cash. The Non-Executive 
Directors do not participate in any performance related schemes 
(e.g. annual bonus or incentive schemes) nor do they receive any 
pension or private medical insurance benefi ts.
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board committees 
however, additional fees are paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and the 
Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Details can be found on page 70 of this Remuneration Report.
Save a maximum of  250 per 
month for a period of three or 
fi ve years.
100% of base salary for 
Executive Directors.
N/A
Continued employment for the 
duration of the scheme and  good' 
and  bad' leaver provisions.
Executive Directors may not 
dispose of any shares on the 
exercise of an option or on 
release of an award if they do not 
have the minimum shareholding.
Non-Executive Director fees must remain within the limits approved by 
shareholders and incorporated in the Company's Articles of Association.
No change. No change. No change.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Clawback 
Both the annual bonus (including any deferred bonus) and the LTPP 
are subject to the Company's power of clawback (the  Clawback'). The 
Clawback is applicable in respect of any annual bonus paid/deferred 
and to any share awards granted under the LTPP or the Executive 
Share Option Scheme (the  ESOS') in respect of the fi nancial year 
ended 30 June 2010 and later years, subject in the case of HMRC 
approved options, to such approval. In addition, the Clawback will also 
apply to any awards granted under any senior manager share schemes.
The Clawback can be invoked if: 
(a) it is necessary to restate the Group's accounts used to calculate 
a participant's entitlement to bonus or share awards in circumstances 
where the original over-statement has led to a bonus being paid/
deferred or share awards being granted which would not otherwise 
have been paid or granted; or 
(b) the participant is found guilty of any criminal activity in connection 
with his or her employment and this related to an act which led to a 
bonus being paid/deferred or share awards being granted to him or her. 
In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the bonus 
and/or share award will be retrospectively recalculated. If bonus monies 
have been paid, the participant will be required to reimburse the 
Company for an amount up to the total amount of the net bonus paid, 
less any bonus that the Committee determines would have been paid 
regardless of the event in question. If share awards have been granted, 
the number of awards or options granted will be reduced accordingly. 
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere across 
the Group
The budget for all employees' salaries is determined with reference to 
the rate of infl ation, salaries for similar positions throughout the industry 
and general themes and trends in respect of remunerating employees.
When agreeing the increase in base salaries for Executive Directors 
and Senior Management, the Committee takes into consideration the 
salary increases awarded to all employees within the Group in respect 
of any given fi nancial year.
Differences between Executive Directors' and Employees' 
remuneration
The following differences exist between the Company's policy for 
the remuneration of Executive Directors as set out above and its 
approach to the payment of employees generally:
  a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity may apply 
to employees other than the Executive Directors and certain senior 
executives, however all employees, including Executive Directors and 
Senior Management, are subject to the same performance targets; 
  Executive Directors and Senior Management are required to defer 
any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary into shares 
for a period of three years;
  employees are only able to join the defi ned contribution money 
purchase section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance 
Scheme. Executive Directors' may either join the defi ned contribution 
money purchase scheme or elect for a cash supplement in lieu of the 
pension contribution; and
  participation in the LTPP is limited to Executive Directors and Senior 
Management. The Committee has however approved a plan that 
allows the deferral of an equivalent of 15-25% of the salary of a 
number of select employees operating below Senior Management 
level into a Senior Managers' Incentive Scheme (the  SMIS'). 
Further details of the SMIS can be found on page 70 of this 
Remuneration Report.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration 
arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of 
individuals. They also refl ect the fact that, in the case of Executive 
Directors and Senior Management, a greater emphasis tends to be 
placed on performance-related pay. 
Recruitment of Executive Directors 
The base salary for any new Executive Director will take into account 
market data for the relevant role, the salaries of existing Executive 
Directors, the individual's experience and their current base salary. 
In the event an individual is recruited at below market levels, their base 
salary may be re-aligned over a period of time (e.g. two to three years) 
subject to their performance in the role.
Individuals will participate in the LTPP on terms to be considered by 
the Committee on a case by case basis, depending on the date of 
appointment. The Committee may also consider buying out incentive 
awards which an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current 
employer, again this would be reviewed on a case by case basis.
Executive Directors' service contracts 
Details of the Executive Directors' service contracts are included in 
Table 6 and their emoluments are shown in Table 10 on page 70 
of this Remuneration Report. All Executive Directors' and Senior 
Management's service contracts were reviewed and updated during
the 2012/13 fi nancial year in order to bring them in line with current 
regulations and best practice. All individuals whose service contracts
were amended, agreed and accepted the changes proposed and
new service contracts have been entered into. The contracts entitle 
Executive Directors to the provision of a company car, annual medical 
screening, private medical insurance, some telephone costs and 
contributions to the cost of obtaining independent tax advice.
Table 6 - Executive Directors' service contracts
Executive 
Director
Service 
contract date
Date of 
appointment
Notice 
period
Mark Clare 12 November 2012 2 October 2006 12 months
David Thomas 16 January 2013 21 July 2009 12 months
Steven Boyes 21 February 2013 1 July 2001 12 months
Clive Fenton* 1 July 2003 1 July 2003 12 months
* Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company on 5 July 2012.
Executive Directors' service contracts are available for inspection by
any person at the Company's registered offi ce during normal offi ce
hours and will also be available at the 2013 AGM for 15 minutes
before and throughout the meeting. 
The Committee will continue to review the contractual terms for new 
Executive Directors to ensure that these refl ect best practice. No new 
Executive Directors were appointed during the fi nancial year under review.
64 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Executive Directors' notice period
In accordance with the Company's policy, it engages all Executive 
Directors on the basis of one-year rolling contracts which can be 
terminated by twelve months' notice given by either the Company 
or by the Executive at any time. 
Executive Directors' termination provisions
There are no specifi c provisions for compensation on early termination 
(except for payment in lieu of holidays accrued but untaken) or loss of 
offi ce due to a change of ownership of the Company. The Committee 
will apply mitigation against any contractual obligations as it deems fair 
and reasonable and will seek legal advice on the Company's liability
to pay compensation. The Committee also seeks to reduce the level
of any compensation payable and takes into account, amongst other 
factors, the individual's and the Group's performance; the Director's 
obligation to mitigate his/her own loss; and the Director's length of 
service when calculating termination payments. 
Non-Executive directorships 
Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept 
one non-executive directorship outside the Company and retain any 
fees received from such a position. Executive Directors are not allowed 
to take on the Chairmanship of any FTSE 100 company. Board 
approval will not be given for any non-executive position where such 
appointment would lead to a material confl ict of interest or would
have an effect on the Director's ability to perform his/her duties to the 
Company. During the year, Mark Clare was a trustee and Director of
the BRE Trust and UK GBC Limited. Mark Clare does not receive any 
fees for either of these positions. The time commitment expected, in 
aggregate, for these positions is approximately 25 hours per annum. 
Neither David Thomas nor Steven Boyes held any non-executive 
directorships with other companies during the year.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed 
under terms set out in a letter of appointment. They do not have 
service contracts and their appointments can be terminated (by 
the Board) without compensation for loss of offi ce and by giving the 
appropriate length of notice as prescribed in their respective letters 
of appointment. The notice period applicable for the Chairman, Bob 
Lawson, is three months and for each of the other Non-Executive 
Directors is one month. Under governance policies approved by the 
Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term 
and usually serve a second three-year term subject to performance 
review and re-election by shareholders. Beyond this a further term
of up to three years may be served subject to rigorous review by
the Chairman and the Nomination Committee and re-election
by shareholders. Details of Non-Executive Directors' letters of 
appointment can be found in Table 7.
Table 7 - Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment
Non-Executive 
Director
Date elected/ 
re-elected 
at AGM
Date fi rst 
appointed 
to the Board
Date last 
re-appointed 
to the Board
Bob Lawson 14 November 2012 1 June 2008 1 June 2011
Tessa Bamford 14 November 2012 1 July 2009 1 July 2012
Rod MacEachrane 14 November 2012 1 May 2006 1 July 2011
Mark Rolfe 14 November 2012 1 May 2008 1 May 2011
Richard Akers 14 November 2012 2 April 2012 N/A
Nina Bibby N/A
3 December 
2012 N/A
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection by any person at the Company's registered offi ce during 
normal offi ce hours and will also be available at the 2013 AGM for 
15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
Shareholder engagement
Each year we update our major investors upon the Committee's 
application of the Company's Remuneration Policy and our performance, 
following the release of the July trading update and in advance of the 
publication of our Annual Report and Accounts. The Committee considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM and any additional 
feedback received during any meetings from time to time, as part of the 
Company's annual review of its Remuneration Policy. In addition, the 
Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and 
their representative bodies should any material changes be proposed
to the Remuneration Policy. Details of the votes cast for and against the 
resolution to approve last year's remuneration report and any matters 
discussed with shareholders during the year are detailed throughout this 
Remuneration Report.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
In this section, in addition to complying with our reporting requirements, 
we describe all of the payments to Directors in connection with the 
year under review and how the Remuneration Policy will be applied 
throughout the 2013/14 fi nancial year.
The Committee 
The main role of the Committee is to design and implement a 
remuneration framework which, not only allows the Group to recruit 
and retain Executive Directors and Senior Management who are fully 
focused and motivated to achieve and deliver the Group's key business 
strategies but, is also aligned to the interests of the Group's shareholders. 
The Committee operates within terms of reference (the  Terms of 
Reference') and governance policies approved by the Board and in 
accordance with the Code. The full Terms of Reference, which are 
reviewed annually, are available from the Company's website at
www.barrattdevelopments.co.uk.
Principal responsibilities 
The principal responsibilities of the Committee undertaken in each 
annual cycle (where appropriate) are: 
  determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the 
Group with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors 
and senior managers of the experience and calibre required by the 
Group having regard to remuneration paid to employees across 
the Group and an external comparable group of companies; 
  determining, reviewing and making recommendations to the
Board on the remuneration package and terms of appointment
of the Chairman; 
  agreeing targets and benefi ts in respect of performance related 
pay schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all 
participating employees which are suffi ciently challenging, fair 
and highly motivating, commensurate with sector practice, and 
consistent with maximising shareholder value and the interests 
and expectations of shareholders; 
  agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation for loss 
of offi ce or early retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors 
and Senior Management; 
  determining the total remuneration package of the Group Chief 
Executive and, after consultation with him, the total individual 
remuneration package of each Executive Director and Senior 
Management including bonuses, incentive payments, share
options/awards and pension arrangements; and 
  undertaking consultations with institutional investors on 
remuneration policy and/or other aspects of senior remuneration, 
as appropriate and ensuring that the Remuneration Policy 
is aligned with regulatory requirements. 
The Committee is also responsible for appointing consultants to advise 
on executive remuneration. Details of the consultants utilised during 
the fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013 are set out on page 67 of this 
Remuneration Report. 
Membership 
Bob Davies chaired the Committee until the conclusion of the 2012 
AGM on 14 November 2012, at which point he stepped down from his 
positions of Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Committee and 
as Senior Independent Director of the Company. Richard Akers took 
over as Chairman of the Committee with effect from that date. Other 
members of the Committee throughout the fi nancial year were Bob 
Lawson, Rod MacEachrane, Tessa Bamford and Mark Rolfe. Nina 
Bibby joined the Committee on 3 December 2012. The Group General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, Tom Keevil, acts as Secretary 
to the Committee.
In accordance with the Code, all Committee members are considered 
to be independent with no fi nancial interest in the Committee's 
decisions, other than as shareholders and the fees paid to them 
as Non-Executive Directors. Details of their shareholdings and fees 
can be found on pages 78 and 70 respectively.
66 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Meetings
The Committee met on fi ve occasions during the fi nancial year and attendance at each of these meetings is described in Table 5 on page 56 
of the Corporate Governance Report.
The matters addressed by the Committee during the 2012/13 fi nancial year were as follows:
General remuneration 
matters
Governance Annual bonus Long-term incentives
Month:
JULY 
(two meetings)
   Resignation of Clive Fenton
   Finalisation of bonus and 
LTPP performance targets
   Draft 2011/12 
Remuneration Report
   Shareholder 
consultation letter
   Cash and net debt targets    Review and approval 
of EPS targets for 2012/13
AUGUST
Annual consultation with investors
SEPTEMBER
   Finalisation of the 2012/13 
bonus and LTPP outcomes
   Remuneration strategy 
and policy 
   Draft 2011/12 
Remuneration Report
   2011/12 Annual bonus 
sign off
   2012/13 Net debt 
reconciliation
  Update of Scheme rules
   Review of Senior 
Managers' Long-Term 
Incentive Scheme
APRIL
   Remuneration 
benchmarking
   Reviewed fi xed 
and variable 
remuneration elements
   Review of impact of BIS 
Proposals on Directors' 
Remuneration
   Review of Policy and 
outline 2012/13 
Remuneration Report
   2013/14 Annual bonus 
rules and proposal
   Setting of challenging 
performance conditions
   2013/14 review proposals 
and review performance 
conditions
JUNE
   Approve salary increases 
for 2013/14 
   Shareholders' 
Consultation Letter
  Committee effectiveness
  Executive shareholdings
   Review and approve 
Terms of Reference
   Review of performance 
against targets for 2012/13 
Annual bonus
   2013/14 Annual 
bonus targets
   Review of EPS targets 
for 2013/14 LTPP
   Proposal for 2013/14 
senior manager scheme
Effectiveness
As described on pages 48 and 49 of the Corporate Governance Report, Independent Board Evaluation undertook an external performance 
evaluation of the Committee. The key areas reviewed included the structure and operation of the Committee under a new Chairman. The 
outcome was positive. It was however, acknowledged that a key challenge moving forward would be to ensure that the remuneration structure 
and the aggregate value of the fi xed and variable elements remain competitive within the market as it continues to improve. The Committee 
will meet in December to review the Remuneration Policy further, in the light of feedback on this report, the shareholder consultation exercise 
and external advice. The Committee also reviewed its Terms of Reference as part of the annual effectiveness process and concluded that they 
follow best practice and are  fi t for purpose'. 
Advice/Advisers 
During the year the Committee has taken advice from independent advisers, NBS, a part of Aon plc. NBS was appointed by the Committee
as its remuneration consultant in 2008 and is a founder signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group's Code of Conduct. In addition to 
advising the Committee, NBS also provided the Company with advice on implementing decisions made by the Committee and remuneration 
benchmarking. NBS's fees for providing such advice amounted to  16,358 (2012:  26,053) for the year ended 30 June 2013. In line with best 
practice, the Committee assesses, from time to time, whether the appointment remains appropriate or if it should be put out to tender as part 
of its effectiveness review. Aon plc also provided broking services to the Company in respect of private medical insurance, Death in Service 
benefi ts and Group Income Protection. Mercer Limited has advised the Company in relation to various pension issues and has been appointed 
actuary to the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme since 2004. Slaughter and May, the Company's corporate legal advisers, 
have also provided advice as and when necessary. 
In addition to advice from external consultants, the Committee received input into its decision-making from the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
General Counsel and Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director (since his appointment on 1 August 2012), none of whom 
was present at any time when their own remuneration was being considered.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY 
FOR THE 2013/14 FINANCIAL YEAR 
Executive remuneration package for the 2013/14 fi nancial year
In line with its remuneration strategy described on page 59 of this 
Remuneration Report, the Committee has based the Executive 
remuneration package for the forthcoming year on the following principles: 
  performance-related remuneration should be linked to the 
achievement of demanding performance targets; 
  performance-related remuneration should refl ect the responsibilities 
of the Executive Directors; currently approximately 72.0% of 
the Group Chief Executive's and the other Executive Directors' 
remuneration potential is performance based (see Chart 1 
on page 59 of this Remuneration Report); 
  performance-related remuneration should align the interests 
of Executives with those of shareholders by setting performance 
targets based on measures of shareholder return and accordingly 
the Committee's policy is to use a combination of TSR and EPS 
performance conditions to achieve this alignment; 
  total remuneration for outstanding performance should be 
competitive with that available elsewhere in the sector; and 
  total remuneration should take into account levels of pay and 
employment conditions throughout the Group. 
Remuneration payment timeline
In respect of the 2013/14 fi nancial year, the elements of remuneration 
as described on page 59 of this Remuneration Report, subject to 
performance targets being met, would be made/released as follows:
Financial year Element of remuneration
2013/14   Base salary
  Pension
  Benefi ts
2014/15    Annual bonus for the fi nancial year ending 
30 June 2014 - cash payment with any bonus 
earned in excess of 100% of base salary being 
deferred into shares.
2015/16    Performance period for LTPP ends however, 
award does not vest until the expiry of three years 
from the grant date.
2016/17   LTPP awards vest
2017/18   Deferred bonus shares are released.
 
Performance targets for the 2013/14 fi nancial year
The variable elements of Executive Director and Senior Management 
remuneration are subject to performance targets which are stretching 
and challenging whilst aligning the level of reward with the short and 
long-term performance of the Group and total shareholder return. The 
performance targets applied to variable remuneration for the 2013/14 
fi nancial year and the reasons for selecting those performance targets 
are set out in the table below:
Variable 
element
Performance 
condition
Reason 
selected
Annual bonus Financial:
   Profi t before tax and 
exceptional items
   Overall minimum 
landbank/indebtedness 
(net debt + land 
creditors)
Non-fi nancial:
   Health and safety
   Customer service
   Employee engagement
Rewards outperformance 
against stretching targets 
and is a key measure of 
our performance.
Ensures effi cient and 
effective management 
of our balance sheet 
and alignment of 
objectives with our 
banking covenants.
Ensures a safe working 
environment, which is 
paramount in our business. 
Customer satisfaction is 
critical to the success of 
our business and our ability 
to compete. 
Our ability to attract, 
motivate and retain the 
best people is another 
key criteria for our success.
LTPP   TSR
  EPS
Rewards outperformance 
compared against returns 
generated by our listed 
company peers.
To ensure effi cient and 
effective management 
of our business and 
align interests with 
those of shareholders.
68 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Executive Directors' salaries 
With the assistance of NBS, the Committee undertook a benchmarking 
exercise of Executive Director salaries and concluded that the salaries 
are well within the range for the housebuilding sector and the wider 
population of the comparators from the FTSE 250 (excluding investment 
trusts). Accordingly, the Committee agreed to award all Executive 
Directors and Senior Management a salary increase of 2.5% for the 
2013/14 fi nancial year. This increase is in line with that awarded to all 
managers across the Group and slightly lower than the 3% increase 
awarded to employees below manager level. Executive Director salaries, 
with effect from 1 July 2013, are therefore as follows:
Table 8 - Executive Directors' salary increases
Name
Current 
salary 
 000
Salary with 
effect from 
1 July 2013 
 000
% 
increase
Average 
% increase 
over fi ve 
years 
(including 
2013/14)
Mark Clare 664 681 2.5 1.58
David Thomas 430 441 2.5 1.99
Steven Boyes 430 441 2.5 4.85
Pensions
Executive Directors will receive a cash salary supplement of 30%
of base salary.
Annual bonus
Executive Directors and Senior Management will participate in the 
Group's annual bonus scheme in accordance with the Remuneration 
Policy. The performance measures and the maximum bonus payment 
against each of them expressed as a percentage for the 2013/14 
fi nancial year will be:
Performance measure % of salary maximum
Profi t before tax 100
Overall landbank/indebtedness 35
Personal objectives* 10
Employee engagement 5
Total** 150
*   This element will be in two parts for the Executive Directors, so that half is based on the 
achievement of targets agreed with the CEO in respect of the two Executive Directors 
(and the Chairman in respect of the CEO) and the other half is at the Committee's 
discretion. The personal objectives for Senior Management are set by the CEO and 
reviewed by the Committee. 
**  Any bonus earned in aggregate in excess of 100% will continue to be deferred into 
shares and held in the CIP. 
 
In addition to these performance measures, the Committee has 
retained the penalties for under-performance in respect of each of the 
customer service and health and safety targets. Accordingly, in respect 
of customer service, 10% of the total bonus earned will be forfeited 
for failure to achieve 5 Star status for both the Recommend Score 
and the Quality Score under the Home Builders Federation Scheme; 
and a further 10% would be forfeited for failure to achieve the on-target 
health and safety performance target. Consequently, if neither of these 
performance measures were to be achieved, in aggregate, 20% of
the annual bonus earned would be forfeited.
Any bonus awarded for the 2013/14 fi nancial year would be subject 
to the Clawback set out on page 64 of this Remuneration Report.
LTPP
The level of award to be granted to Executive Directors and Senior 
Management during the 2013/14 fi nancial year will be in line with 
that described on page 62 of this Remuneration Report. Consistent 
with past awards, the extent to which the LTPP award to be granted 
in 2013/14 (the  2013/14 LTPP') will vest, will be dependent on two 
independent performance conditions with 50% determined by 
reference to TSR and 50% determined by reference to EPS, as follows:
  the TSR element of the 2013/14 LTPP will vest in full if the TSR ranks 
in the upper quartile, as measured over the three-year period, relative 
to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment 
trusts) at the beginning of that period. This element will reduce 
to 25% on a pro rata basis for median performance and to nil 
for below median performance; and
  the EPS element of the 2013/14 LTPP will vest in full if the 2015/16 
EPS is 40 pence per share or higher. This element will reduce to 
25% on a pro rata basis if the 2015/16 EPS is 30 pence per share 
and to nil if the 2015/16 EPS is less than 30 pence per share.
The specifi c EPS target range for the 2013/14 LTPP has been increased 
by an additional two pence per annum to ensure management does not 
get any benefi t from the expected positive impact of the Company's 
re-fi nancing upon EPS in future years and remains designed to incentivise 
signifi cant performance improvement across the business, increase 
sales volumes and deliver continued profi t growth, whilst ensuring that
it does not encourage inappropriate risk taking by Executive Directors 
and Senior Management. The EPS targets approved by the Committee 
refl ected the signifi cant improvement in the Company's performance, 
current consensus targets for profi t before tax as at 30 June 2015, 
(extrapolated forward in the absence of a current market consensus
for the 2015/16 fi nancial year), the Board's assessment of optimal scale 
of the business, the need to ensure continued focus on managing net 
debt, together with the forward looking goal of the Group to improve its 
return on capital employed. In doing so, the Committee was satisfi ed 
that these targets would deliver substantial benefi t to shareholders, 
if they are met, whilst ensuring full engagement from management 
by having an achievable minimum vesting level while requiring 
outstanding performance to achieve the maximum target. 
Both the TSR and EPS performance conditions will remain subject
to an overriding Committee discretion, in that it must be satisfi ed
that the underlying fi nancial performance of the Company over the 
performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by 
applying these targets. If the Committee is not of this view then it
will be empowered to reduce (possibly to nil) the level of vesting.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Discretionary Long-Term Incentives below Senior Management
In addition to the 2013/14 LTPP for Executive Directors and Senior Management, the Committee has approved the grant of an award under 
the SMIS to approximately 100 employees operating below Senior Management (the  2013/14 SMIS'). The main purpose of the SMIS is to seek 
to mitigate the impact of key employees below Senior Management level taking up new job opportunities with competitors operating nationally. 
The 2013/14 SMIS will be subject to the same EPS performance condition as the 2013/14 LTPP and a continued employment condition. In the 
event that the participant is still an employee of the Group at the end of the three-year performance period and the Group achieves the specifi ed 
EPS targets, the participant will receive an equivalent number of shares to the amount of salary deferred. By using the same stretching EPS 
targets as the LTPP, the Committee is ensuring that the SMIS is aligned with Our Strategic Objectives.
The 2013/14 LTPP and the 2013/14 SMIS are also subject to the Clawback conditions as described on page 64 of the Remuneration Report.
Non-Executive Directors' fees 
The Board reviewed the fees for the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and concluded that no fee increase would be awarded 
for the 2013/14 fi nancial year. Accordingly, the annual fees payable to the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 
1 July 2013 remain as follows:
Table 9 - Non-Executive Directors' fee increases
Role 2013/14 2012/13
% 
increase
Chairman  270,000  270,000 0%
Non-Executive Director base fee  48,000  48,000 0%
Chairman of Audit Committee  10,000  10,000 0%
Chairman of Remuneration Committee  10,000  10,000 0%
Senior Independent Director  5,000  5,000 0%
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR THE 2012/13 FINANCIAL YEAR
Directors' emoluments
The following table shows the emoluments for the Executive Directors in respect of the fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013:
Table 10 - Directors' emoluments (Audited)
Salary/fee 
 000
Pension 
allowance 
 000
Employer's 
pension 
contribution 
 000
Performance 
related 
 000
Benefi ts 
in kind 
 000
2013 Total 
 000
2012 Total 
 000
2013 Gain 
on exercise 
of share 
options 
 000
2012 Gain 
on exercise 
of share 
options 
 000
Mark Clare 664 199 - 996 39 1,898 1,830 - 13
David Thomas 430 129 - 645 14 1,218 1,132 - -
Steven Boyes 430 129 - 645 26 1,230 1,113 - 13
Clive Fenton^^^ 62 - - - 8 534 - 11
Bob Lawson 270 - - - - 270 270 - -
Bob Davies** 23 - - - 4 27 55 - -
Richard Akers^ 54 -- -- 54 10 - -
Tessa Bamford^^ 48 -- -- 48 40 - -
Nina Bibby* 28 -- -- 28 - - -
Rod MacEachrane 48 -- -- 48 40 - -
Mark Rolfe^ 61 -- -- 61 50 - -
2013 Total 2,062 459 - 2,286 83 4,890 - - -
2012 Total 2,296 460 69 2,143 106 - 5,074 - 37
*  Nina Bibby joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2012.
**  Bob Davies stepped down from his positions of Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2012 
AGM on 14 November 2012.
^  These fi gures include fees in respect of Chairmanship of Board Committees and the role of Senior Independent Director, as applicable.
^^  Following Tessa Bamford's appointment as a consultant with Spencer Stuart on 18 April 2011, her fees were paid directly, on a quarterly basis, to Spencer Stuart. With effect from 
1 November 2012, her fees are paid directly to her. For the period 1 July 2012 to 31 October 2012 inclusive, the Company paid  16,000 to Spencer Stuart for Tessa's services 
to the Board and for the remainder of the fi nancial year the Company paid in total  32,000 directly to her in equal monthly instalments.
^^^  Figures include salary and benefi ts received up to and including 5 July 2012 being the date when Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company. He continued to be employed 
by the Company until 31 December 2012 during which period he received a base salary of  25,000 per month and a benefi ts package worth  21,120 which comprised the provision 
of a motor vehicle and private medical insurance.
70 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Single fi gure of remuneration
The total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors for the fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013 is as set out in Table 11 below:
Table 11 - Executive Directors' single fi gure of remuneration 
Mark Clare
Group Chief Executive
David Thomas 
Group Finance Director
Steven Boyes
Group Chief Operating Offi cer
Clive Fenton
1
Group Executive Director
2012/13 
 000
% 
of total
2011/12 
 000
% 
of total
2012/13 
 000
% 
of total
2011/12 
 000
% 
of total
2012/13 
 000
% 
of total
2011/12 
 000
% 
of total
2012/13 
 000
% 
of total
2011/12 
 000
% 
of total
Fixed pay:
Salary
Taxable benefi ts
Pension benefi ts
664 
39 
199
16.22 
0.95 
4.86
643 
38 
193
30.63
1.81
9.19
430 
14 
129
16.36
0.53
4.91
408 
15 
102
31.50
1.16
7.88
430 
26 
126
+
16.80 
1.02 
4.92
390 
26 
113
30.83 
2.06 
8.93
6
 - 
2
75.00
-
25.00
390 
27 
117
73.03 
5.06 
21.91
Pay for 
performance:
Annual bonus* 996 24.33 956 45.55 645 24.54 607 46.87 645 25.21 580 45.85 -- --
Long-term 
Incentives:
LTPP^
ESOS
SRSOS
2,195
-
-
53.64
-
-
-
256
13
-
12.20
0.62
1,394
-
16
53.04
-
0.62
-
163
-
-
12.59
-
1,332 
-
-
52.05 
-
-
- 
143
13
- 
11.30
1.03
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total 
Remuneration 4,093 100.00 2,099 100.00 2,628 100.00 1,295 100.00 2,559 100.00 1,265 100.00 8 100.00 534 100.00
* Includes amount deferred (see Table 13).
^  Performance conditions tested after 30 June 2013 and 73.9% of the award is due to vest in October 2013. Market price of shares has been calculated based on an average market value 
over the three months to 30 June 2013. 
1  Figures include salary and benefi ts received up to and including 5 July 2012 being the date when Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company. He continued to be employed 
by the Company until 31 December 2012 during which period he received a base salary of  25,000 per month and a benefi ts package worth  21,120 which comprised the provision 
of a motor vehicle and private medical insurance. All of Clive's outstanding share awards and options lapsed immediately upon his resignation on 5 July 2012.
+ Takes into account the decrease in accrued pension (net of infl ation) over the year under the defi ned benefi t section of the Group's pension scheme in accordance with the BIS Regulations.
Annual bonus
For the year under review, Executive Directors had the potential to earn an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary, 140% of which is based on 
the attainment of Group performance targets and 10% on personal objectives. All targets, Group and personal, were agreed at the beginning of the 
fi nancial year. The Group performance targets which applied to the bonus for the 2012/13 fi nancial year and the resulting outturn were as follows:
Table 12 - Annual bonus (Audited)
Proportion of total
bonus available
Actual 
performance
Resulting 
bonus outturn
 Cash/deferred 
 shares
Bonus target % of salary Achievement % of salary
Payable 
in cash 
% of salary
Payable 
in shares 
% of salary
Profi t before tax and 
exceptional items
Threshold:  145m
Target:  155m
Maximum:  175m
20%
50%
100%
 192.3m 100% 50% 50%
Overall indebtedness Threshold:  950m 
Target:  900m 
Maximum:  850m
7% 
17 .5% 
35%
 770.3m 35% 35% 0%
Employee engagement Minimum: 54% 
Target: 56%
Maximum: 58%
1%
2.5%
5%
68% 5% 5% 0%
Personal objectives Maximum: 5% 
personal objectives
Maximum: 5% at the 
Committee's discretion
10% 100% 10% 10% 0%
Health and safety Minimum: 93% No penalty 97% 0% 0% 0%
Customer service Minimum: 5 Star status No penalty 5 Star status 0% 0% 0%
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Table 13 - Executive Directors' deferred bonus 
Mark Clare
Group Chief Executive
David Thomas 
Group Finance Director
Steven Boyes
Group Chief Operating Offi cer
% deferred 
**
Amount 
deferred
 000
Number 
of Shares
^
% deferred 
**
Amount 
deferred
 000
Number 
of Shares
^
% deferred 
**
Amount 
deferred
 000
Number 
of Shares
^
2012/13 Deferred bonus 50.00 332 TBC* 50.00 215 TBC* 50.00 215 TBC*
2011/12 Deferred bonus 48.75 313 184,123 48.75 199 116,903 48.75 190 111,746
*  The number of shares will be determined based on the share price calculated by averaging the closing middle-market quotations, as derived from the Daily Offi cial List of the London 
Stock Exchange, for the fi rst fi ve dealing days following the date on which the Group announces its annual results for the 2012/13 fi nancial year. The actual number of shares awarded 
in respect of the 2012/13 deferred bonus was not therefore available as at the date of this report. This information will therefore be disclosed in next year's report.
^  Shares are held in the CIP for a period of three years commencing from the date of the award and subject to a continued employment performance condition.
**  The Executive Directors earned a total bonus of 150% and 148.75% for the 2012/13 and 2011/12 fi nancial years respectively. Accordingly, any bonus earned in excess of 100% 
of base salary is deferred into shares.
Long-Term Performance Plan
LTPP granted during the year (the  2012/13 LTPP') (Audited)
On 24 October 2012, the following 2012/13 LTPP awards were granted to Executive Directors:
Executive 
Director
Type of 
award
Basis of 
award 
granted
Share price 
at date 
of grant 
(pence)
Number 
of shares 
over which 
award was 
granted
Face value 
of award 
( 000)
% of 
face value 
that would 
vest at 
threshold 
performance
Vesting 
determined by 
performance over
Mark Clare Nil cost option
200% of salary 
 664,000 160.90 825,357  1,328 25%
 Three fi nancial 
years to 
30 June 2015
David Thomas Nil cost option
200% of salary 
 430,000 160.90 534,493  860 25%
Steven Boyes Nil cost option
200% of salary 
 430,000 160.90 534,493  860 25%
The 2012/13 LTPP is subject to two performance conditions, TSR (50%) and EPS (50%). The levels of vesting against TSR, measured over 
a three-year period commencing 1 July 2012, and against EPS for the fi nancial year ending 30 June 2015, are as follows:
  the TSR element will vest in full if the TSR ranks in the upper quartile relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
investment trusts). 25% will vest at median performance and there will be no vesting for performance below median; and
  the EPS element will vest in full if EPS for the 2014/15 fi nancial year is 26 pence per share or higher. This element will reduce to 50% 
for an EPS of 22 pence per share and to 25% for EPS of 18 pence per share. There will be no vesting if EPS is less than 18 pence per share. 
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis for EPS between: 18 pence and 22 pence; and 22 pence and 26 pence per share. 
Outstanding LTPP awards
2011/12 LTPP award granted 20 October 2011 was based on an allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 150% of base 
salary. 50% of the award is subject to a three-year TSR performance condition and the other 50% is based on the achievement of an EPS target 
for the fi nancial year ending 30 June 2014. There is no re-testing of performance conditions. 
The levels of vesting against the TSR targets are as follows:
Rank of Company's TSR against comparator group Level of vesting of TSR element 
Upper Quartile and above 100%
Median 25%
Below Median 0%
Between Upper Quartile and Median Straight-line basis between 25% and 100% 
The EPS targets and corresponding levels of vesting for the 2011/12 LTPP award are as follows:
Level of vesting of EPS element EPS target - Financial year 2013/14
100% 30 pence per share or higher 
25% 12.5 pence per share
0% Below 12.5 pence per share
Straight-line basis between 25% and 100% Between 12.5 pence and 30 pence per share
In addition to the above performance targets, all LTPP awards are subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must
be satisfi ed that the underlying fi nancial performance of the Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined
by applying the above targets. If the Committee is not of this view, it has the authority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
72 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Following the Company's refi nancing during the fi nancial year, the Committee will be informing the participants of the 2011/12 and 2012/13 LTPPs 
that it will adjust the vesting levels, at the end of each of the respective plan periods (30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 respectively) to ensure that 
participants do not benefi t from the expected positive impact upon EPS arising from the refi nancing for the relevant parts of those plan periods.
Vesting of 2010/11 LTPP
The 2010/11 LTPP award granted on 14 October 2010 was based on performance to the year ended 30 June 2013 and will vest on 14 October 
2013. The performance condition for this award and the resulting vesting level is as follows:
Metric Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual
% 
Vesting
EPS Absolute EPS growth for the fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013. 10p 25p 
Adjusted basic
EPS 14.6p 23.9%
TSR TSR against the constituents of the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment 
trusts). 12.5% of the total award vesting for median performance and 50% 
of the total award vesting for upper quartile performance or above. TSR 
measured over three fi nancial years with a three month average 
at the start and end of the performance period.
Median 
ranking 
of 93.5 
(TSR of 61.0%)
Upper quartile 
of 47 
(TSR of 
105.9%)
Rank of 18 
(TSR of 
171.8%) 50%
Total vesting 73.9%
The award details for each of the Executive Directors are therefore as follows:
Executive 
Number of 
shares at 
grant
Number of 
shares to 
vest
1
Number of 
shares to 
lapse
Dividends on 
shares to 
vest Total
Estimated 
value
2
( 000)
Mark Clare 963,900 712,322 251,578 N/A 712,322 2,195
David Thomas 612,000 452,268 159,732 N/A 452,268 1,394
Steven Boyes 585,000 432,315 152,685 N/A 432,315 1,332
1 The relevant number of shares will be released to each participant as soon as is practicable in October 2013, when the award actually vests. 
2 The estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the 3 months to 30 June 2013 ( 3.0812 per share).
Table 14 - Long-Term Incentive Schemes (Audited)
Details of movements in the Directors' interests in executive long-term incentive schemes are as follows:
Date of 
award
At 
30/06/12 
No.
Granted 
No.
Vested 
No.
Lapsed 
No.
At 
30/06/13 
No.
Date 
from 
which 
exercisable*
Market 
price on 
award 
pence
Market 
price at 
vesting 
pence
Gain 
receivable 
 
Mark Clare
LTPP 14. 10.2010 963,900 - - - 963,900 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 1,154,786 - - - 1,154,786 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
DBP 12.10.2012 - 184,123 - - 184,123 12.10.2015 170.14 - -
LTPP 24.10.2012 - 825,357 - - 825,357 24.10.2015 160.90 - -
Total 2,118,686 1,009,480 - - 3,128,166
David Thomas
LTPP 14.10.2010 612,000 - - - 612,000 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 733,198 - - - 733,198 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
DBP 12.10.2012 - 116,903 - - 116,903 12.10.2015 170.14 - -
LTPP 24.10.2012 -534,493-- 534,493 24.10.2015 160.90 - -
Total 1,345,198 651,396 - - 1,996,594
Steven Boyes
LTPP 14.10.2010 585,000 - - - 585,000 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 700,851 - - - 700,851 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
DBP 12.10.2012 - 111,746 - - 111,746 12.10.2015 170.14 - -
LTPP 24.10.2012 -534,493-- 534,493 24.10.2015 160.90 - -
Total 1,285,851 646,239 - - 1,932,090
Clive Fenton**
LTPP 14.10.2010 585,000 - - 585,000 - 14.10.2013 100.00 - -
LTPP 20.10.2011 700,851 - - 700,851 - 20.10.2014 83.47 - -
Total 1,285,851 - - 1,285,851 -
*  The earliest date on which an award may vest, in normal circumstances, having fulfi lled all qualifying conditions, after which ordinary shares are transferred automatically as soon as possible.
** All outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton lapsed on 5 July 2012 upon his resignation as a Director.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Executive Directors' share option plans
Executive Share Option Plan 
The award granted under the Executive Share Option Plan (the  ESOP') in 2003 at an exercise price of 357.37 pence per share vested in 2006, 
however, there are a number of participants, including Steven Boyes, who are still to exercise the options granted to them.
Under the rules of the ESOP no further options can be granted under this plan. Details of the option granted to Steven Boyes in 2003 remain 
unchanged and are set out in Table 15. 
Executive Share Option Scheme 
The Executive Share Option Scheme (the  ESOS') is divided into two sub-schemes, one of which is approved under the Income Tax (Earnings 
and Pensions) Act 2003 and the other of which is not. The exercise price is calculated differently for each sub-scheme in accordance with the 
rules of the ESOS. 
The last grant made under the ESOS was the 2009/10 ESOS, which was subject to TSR and annual EPS performance conditions. The Committee 
chose these targets as the most appropriate measure of fi nancial performance for a housebuilder at the time of the grant, as they are a fundamental 
measure of the Group's underlying performance and are directly linked to the generation of returns to shareholders. The TSR element of the 2009/10 
ESOS was tested in December 2012 and, as the result was below median, none of the TSR element of the award vested. 
The EPS element of the award had three separate annual components with the Committee setting targets annually for the following fi nancial year. 
Performance against each annual EPS target was tested at the end of each relevant fi nancial year during the performance period and each year's 
EPS target determined the vesting level of one sixth of the total award. It should be noted that the approach of using three one-year targets was 
adopted due to the uncertain economic conditions prevailing in 2009 when options under the ESOS were fi rst granted. The Committee has since 
reverted back to the policy of setting three-year targets. 
Subject to the Committee's overriding discretion to take into account, among other factors, performance relative to the sector and the underlying 
fi nancial performance of the business, including free cash fl ow, when deciding if the level of vesting was justifi ed, a cumulative total of 32.8% of 
the award vested on 10 December 2012 (being three years from the date of grant) and the remaining 67.2% of the award was lapsed on the same 
date. Executive Directors and Senior Management have until 9 December 2019 to exercise their option and any options not exercised within this 
timescale will lapse. 
Table 15 - Directors' share options (Audited)
Details of movements in the Directors' interests in executive share options are as follows:
Date of 
grant
At 
30/06/12 
No.
Granted 
No.
Exercised 
No.
Lapsed 
No.
At 
30/06/13 
No.
Exercise 
price 
pence
Market 
price 
(pence) on 
relevant 
date of 
exercise
Date 
from 
which 
exercisable
Latest 
expiry
Mark Clare
ESOS 10. 12.2009 1,037,976 - - 697,520 340,456 121.39 - 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2012 7,200 - - - 7,200 125.00 - 01.06.2015 30.11.2015
Total 1,045,176 - - 697,520 347,656
David Thomas
ESOS 10.12.200925,458-- 17,108 8,350 117 .84 - 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
ESOS 10.12.2009 634,319 - - 426,263 208,056 121.39 - 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2010 7,811--- 7,811 116. 18 - 01.06.2013 30. 11.2013
SRSOS 27.03.2013 - 4,398-- 4,398 204.60 - 01.06.2016 30.11.2016
Total 667,588 4,398 - 443,371 228,615
Steven Boyes
ESOP* 10.10.2003153,897--- 153,897 357 .37 - 10.10.2006 09.10.2013
ESOS 10.12.2009576,653--387,511 189,142 121.39 - 10.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2012 7,200--- 7,200 125.00 - 01.06.2015 30.11.2015
Total 737,750 - - 387,511 350,239
Clive Fenton**
ESOS 10.12.2009 576,653 - - 576,653 - 121.39 - 01.12.2012 09.12.2019
SRSOS 28.03.2012 7,200 - - 7,200 - 125.00 - 01.06.2015 30.11.2015
Total 583,853 - - 583,853 -
*  The performance condition set by the Committee for the ESOP award granted in 2003, that the growth in EPS of the Company over a period of three consecutive fi nancial years should 
exceed the growth in the RPI by at least 9%, was met in 2006, but the option has not yet been exercised.
**  All outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton lapsed on 5 July 2012 upon his resignation as a Director.
74 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Dilution 
On maturity or vesting of any of its share incentive schemes the Company seeks to satisfy the shares through: a new issue of shares; market 
purchases; or the Employee Benefi t Trust (the  EBT'). As at 30 June 2013, the Company proposes to satisfy all outstanding Executive options and 
awards under the LTPP, 2009/10 ESOS, the DBP, the SRSOS and the unexercised options under the Executive Share Option Plan (the  ESOP') 
through a new issue of shares, subject to the dilution limits described below. Only awards made to individuals below Senior Management level will 
be satisfi ed through shares currently held or to be purchased in the market by the EBT. 
The Company regularly monitors the number of shares issued under its schemes and the impact on dilution limits. The Company is satisfi ed that as 
at 30 June 2013 its usage of shares is compliant with the relevant dilution limits set by the ABI in respect of all share plans (10% of the Company's 
issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period) and discretionary share plans (5% of the Company's issued share capital in any rolling ten-year 
period). In the event that the outstanding options under each of the schemes to be satisfi ed through a new issue of shares were to vest and had 
been exercised on 30 June 2013, the resulting issue of new shares would represent 3.23% of the Company's issued share capital as at that date. 
Change of Control 
The rules of each share scheme operated by the Company contain provisions relating to a change of control. In the event that a change of control 
does occur any unvested options/awards will become vested on the date of the relevant event. However, the number of options/awards that vest 
will be pro-rated depending on the number of weeks completed within the relevant performance period and the level of performance conditions 
achieved during that period. Options/awards which have already vested as at the date of the relevant event may still be exercised within 
prescribed timescales set out in the rules. 
Executive Directors' pension arrangements 
The Company's pension policy for Executive Directors is that they can choose to participate in the Company's defi ned contribution money 
purchase pension plan or receive a cash supplement that does not count for incentive purposes. Only the base salary element of a Director's 
remuneration is pensionable.
Defi ned benefi t section
The defi ned benefi t section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (the  Scheme') was closed to new entrants in 2001 and on 
30 June 2009, the Company exercised its consent under the rules of the Scheme and agreed to cease offering future accrual of defi ned benefi ts 
for current members. Members of the Scheme became eligible to join the defi ned contribution money purchase section of the Scheme with effect 
from 1 July 2009.
Up until 30 June 2009, Steven Boyes was a member of the defi ned benefi t section of the Scheme. This entitlement was based on a 1/60 accrual 
rate and a normal retirement age of 65. The entitlement of Clive Fenton (who left the business on 5 July 2012) was restricted by the earnings cap 
imposed under the Finance Act 1989 for service up to 5 April 2006 and thereafter was calculated by reference to his base salary. Since 1 July 
2009, Steven Boyes, (as did Clive Fenton up until his resignation on 5 July 2012), has been entitled to receive a cash supplement equal to 30% 
of his base salary per annum.
Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton were members of the Scheme during the year ended 30 June 2013. Details of their accrued benefi ts are as follows:
Table 16 - Directors' accrued pension benefi ts (Audited)
Increase in 
accrued pension 
over the year to 
30 June 2013 
(net of infl ation) 
 
Total pension 
accrued at the 
end of the year 
 
Transfer value of 
the increase in 
accrued pension 
over the year to 
30 June 2013 
(net of infl ation) 
less Directors' 
contributions 
 
Increase in 
accrued pension 
over the year to 
30 June 2013 
 
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension at
30 June 2013 
 
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension at
30 June 2012 
 
Change in 
transfer value 
over the year 
 
Steven Boyes (156) 307,228 (3,588) 7,633 6,182,661 6,252,591 (69,930)
Clive Fenton (22) 46,933 (457) 1,168 890,490 880,815 9,675
Notes 
1  The total pension accrued at the end of the year is the amount that each Director had accrued when the Scheme ceased to offer future accrual at 30 June 2009 plus revaluation 
in accordance with the Scheme rules. 
2  The infl ation fi gure of 2.6% is based on the change in RPI from September 2011 to September 2012, consistent with previous years. 
3  All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Value) (Amendment) Regulations 2008. 
The transfer values of the accrued pension represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Scheme's 
liability in respect of the Directors' pension benefi ts. They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration. 
4  The increase in the transfer value includes the effect of fl uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and its Directors, such as market movements 
and the Trustees' decision to update the assumptions used. 
5 The fi gures do not take account of any retained benefi ts the members may have. 
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 The last full actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 November 2010 showed a defi cit of  66.5m calculated on the basis of the Scheme's 
technical provisions. The Company and the Trustees of the Scheme have agreed a plan to pay off the shortfall which requires the Company to 
continue to make defi cit reduction payments of  13.3m per annum until 31 January 2017. The valuation for the fi nancial statements was updated 
to 30 June 2013 by a qualifi ed independent actuary and a defi cit of  13.4m (2012:  21.4m) is included in the Group balance sheet as shown in 
note 27 of the fi nancial statements. The Company will continue to pay the defi cit reduction contributions at a level not lower than the  13.3m per 
annum agreed in December 2008 and will discuss the funding requirements of the Scheme with the Trustees if any material change in the 
Group's fi nancial circumstances is anticipated. 
Members of the Scheme are also eligible for an insured lump sum of up to fi ve times pensionable salary on death in service. Current employees 
who were members of the defi ned benefi t section of the Scheme at closure also retain their dependants' pension entitlements. 
No excess retirement benefi ts have been paid to or are receivable by current and/or past directors in respect of their qualifying services during 
the fi nancial year and there are no arrangements in place that guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
Payments to Directors leaving the Group (Audited)
On 5 July 2012, Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company and all relevant Group companies. He remained an employee of the 
Company until 31 December 2012, during which time he received a reduced base salary of  25,000 per month and benefi ts limited to the 
provision of a motor vehicle, running expenses related to the vehicle and private medical insurance. He was also required to comply with
certain non-compete covenants during this period of employment and a further six months thereafter. 
In addition, the Board presented Bob Davies with  2,000 worth of gift vouchers as a leaving gift when he stepped down from his position 
of Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2012. As these vouchers are deemed to be a benefi t, they are subject to tax, which the Company 
settled on Bob's behalf.
Payments for loss of offi ce (Audited)
No payments were made in respect of loss of offi ce during the year ended 30 June 2013.
Total Shareholder Return performance graph
Chart 2, prepared in accordance with the BIS Regulations, shows the TSR performance over the last fi ve years against the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts) and against an index of listed housebuilders. The Board has chosen these comparative indices as the Group and its major 
competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices. The TSR has been calculated using a fair method in accordance with the BIS Regulations.
Chart 2: Total Shareholder Return performance graph
0
200
400
600
800
1000
30 Jun 1 3 30 Jun 1 2 30 Jun 1 1 30 Jun 10 30 Jun 09 30 Jun 08
Value ( )
Index of listed housebuilders
FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding Investment Trusts)
Barratt Developments PLC
Total shareholder return. Source: Datastream.
This graph shows the value as at 30 June 2013 of  100 invested in Barratt Developments PLC on 30 June 2008 compared with the value of  100 invested in the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts). As a supplementary source of information, we also show performance against an index of currently listed housebuilders (excluding Barratt Developments PLC and 
Crest Nicholson, who re-listed in February 2013). The other points plotted are the values at intervening fi nancial year-ends.
76 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT Five year Group Chief Executive's pay
Table 17 sets out: (i) the total pay, calculated in line with the single fi gure methodology; (ii) the annual bonus pay out as a percentage of maximum; 
and (iii) the LTI vesting level for Mark Clare, Group Chief Executive over a fi ve year period:
Table 17 - Five year Group Chief Executive's Pay (Audited)
Five years to 30 June 2013
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Group Chief Executive's total pay ( 000)  4,093  2,099  1,220  1,417  847
Bonus outturn (as percentage of maximum opportunity) 100% 99.2% 36.6% 90.2% 0.0%
LTI vesting percentage 73.9% 32.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Percentage change in remuneration of Group Chief Executive
The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive's total remuneration (excluding the value of any LTPP and pension 
benefi ts receivable in the year) between the fi nancial years ended 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013, compared to that of the total wage bill for all 
employees of the Group.
Table 18 - Percentage change in remuneration
Total remuneration
2013 2012 % change
Group Chief Executive ( 000) 1,699 1,637 3.8%
All employees (excluding Group Chief Executive) ( m) 219.6 204.5 7.4%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company's actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends and profi t from operations:
Table 19 - Relative importance of spend on pay
2013 2012 % change
Staff costs ( m) 262.0 239.0 9.6%
Profi t from operations 249.9 191.1 30.8%
Dividends ( m)* 24.4 -N/A
*  Dividend is calculated on the number of shares in issue (excluding those held by the Barratt Developments PLC Employee Benefi t Trust) as at 30 June 2013 at a rate of 2.5 pence per share. 
The fi nal dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, will be paid on 20 November 2013 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 October 2013.
 8m of the staff costs fi gure relates to staff costs for the Executive Directors. This is different to the aggregate of the single fi gure of remuneration 
for the year under review due to the way in which the share based awards are accounted for and the inclusion of Employer's National 
Insurance Contributions.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Directors' interests in shares 
The interests of the Directors serving during the fi nancial year and their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company at
the beginning and end of the year are shown below. No notifi cation has been received of any change in the interests below during the period
30 June 2013 to 10 September 2013 inclusive, with the exception of the shares to be deferred in respect of the bonus earned in excess of
100% of base salary by Executive Directors for the fi nancial year ended 30 June 2013 as described on page 72 of this Remuneration Report. 
Table 20 - Directors' interests in shares (Audited)
Benefi cially 
owned as at 
1 July 2012
Benefi cially 
owned as at 
30 June 2013
Outstanding share 
awards under 
all employee share 
plans as at 
30 June 2013
Shareholding 
as a % of 
salary
Mark Clare 1,241,601 1,241,601 3,475,822 579
David Thomas 292,781 312,781 2,225,209 225
Steven Boyes 394,246 394,246 2,282,329 284
Clive Fenton* 307,446 -- N/A
Bob Lawson 517 ,023 517,023 - N/A
Richard Akers 10,000 10,000 - N/A
Bob Davies^ 37,000 37,000 - N/A
Tessa Bamford 31,500 31,500 - N/A
Nina Bibby
 
- -- N/A
Rod MacEachrane 27,600 27,600 - N/A
Mark Rolfe 69,000 69,000 - N/A
*  Figures are as at date of resignation as a director on 5 July 2012. On the same date all outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton were lapsed. 
^  Figures as at 14 November 2012 being the date on which Bob Davies stepped down from his position as Non-Executive Director of the Company.
   Nina Bibby joined the Board on 3 December 2012. From the date of joining, Nina was prohibited from dealing in Barratt shares until the end of the close period on 11 September 2013. 
Executive Directors' shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of base salary and must retain all of the net of tax 
value of any vested LTPP shares until the guideline is met. At 30 June 2013, all of the Executive Directors had met the shareholding requirement 
(see Table 20).
Statement of shareholding vote at AGM
At the 2012 AGM, a resolution was proposed to shareholders to approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2012 for which the 
following votes were received:
Number of votes Percentage
Votes cast in favour 559,917,636 97.93%
Votes cast against 11,819,527 2.07%
Total votes cast 571,737,163 100%
Abstentions 11,603,375
This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 10 September 2013 and signed on its behalf by: 
Richard Akers
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
10 September 2013
78 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   REMUNERATION REPORT