 18 Bespak plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Remuneration Report
The directors present their Remuneration Report which covers
the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors
and certain senior executives as agreed by the Remuneration
Committee. The Report will be subject to the approval of the
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in September 2006.
The first part of this Report contains unaudited information.
The second part contains information which has been subject to
audit. Both parts have been prepared by the Company
Secretary; in the case of the section on executive directors'
remuneration, on behalf of the Board. The Report has been
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Unaudited Information
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, which consists only of
independent non-executive directors, determines and agrees
with the Board the framework or broad policy for the
remuneration of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the
executive directors, the Company Secretary and other members
of the senior executive management as are designated by the
Board to be considered from time to time. It determines the
policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements and approves
the design of performance related and bonus pay schemes. It
also sets the targets for such schemes and approves total
annual payments under such schemes.
The Committee reviews the design of all share incentive plans
for the approval of the Board and the shareholders. It
determines each year whether awards will be made and if so,
the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to be
made to executive directors and other senior executives and the
performance targets to be used.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee
are published on the Company's website.
Membership
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by George Meredith.
Jack Cashman has been a member of the Committee
throughout the year. Sir John Chisholm was a member until his
resignation from the Board on 8 September 2005. Adrian Auer
was a member until his resignation from the Board on 26 April
2006. Jim Dick has been a member since 27 April 2006. Upon
George Meredith's resignation from the Board after the Annual
General Meeting, Dr Peter Fellner will assume the chair of the
Remuneration Committee.
No Remuneration Committee member has any day-to-day
involvement in the running of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee has met five times during the
course of the year. Other directors and employees of the
Company who have attended some or all of the Meetings were
the CEO, the Board Chairman, the Company Secretary, the
Finance Director, the HR Director and the Company's pension
advisors Hymans Robertson. All were appointed by the
Company and have appropriate qualifications and experience to
advise the Company on aspects of the Company's policies and
practices. In addition the Company sought advice from Hewitt
Bacon & Woodrow (Hewitts ) on a variety of matters including
salary and bonus levels, long-term incentive plans and pensions.
Policy on Executive Directors' and Senior 
Executives' Remuneration
The Committee's policy for the forthcoming and subsequent
years on remuneration for executive directors and senior
executives is to ensure that the components and overall value 
of the Company package will:
- attract and retain executives of the highest quality;
- motivate them to achieve performance levels consistent with
the best interests of the shareholders;
- take into account the value of remuneration provided by
employees with whom the Company competes for
executives;
- reflect annual and longer term performance of the Company
as measured against targets set by the Committee; and 
- be appropriate by comparison with the remuneration of other
groups of employees within the Company.
During the year the Committee has:
- reviewed and approved the design of the long-term incentive
plan as presented by Hewitts;
- approved a proposal for management bonuses for the
Company's Group Executive Committee members. Details 
of the members of the Group Executive Committee, which
comprise the Company's senior management team, are set
out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 26; and
- reviewed assessment of achievement against corporate
objectives;
Remuneration Report
>> Unaudited Information Bespak plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  19
- reviewed proposals for salary increases for Mark Throdahl
and his direct reports;
- approved the rules for a new Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP);
- approved a proposal to offer free shares to employees as
part of their bonus;
- approved the termination of the 1996 Executive Share Option
Scheme (ESOS), the 1996 Company Share Option Scheme
(CSOS) and Rule 12 of the 2002 ESOS;
- resolved that no further grants of options be made under the
Schemes listed above;
- approved a management incentive plan;
- approved awards to Mark Throdahl and Martin Hopcroft
under the Bespak 2005 LTIP; and 
- reviewed the fees for the Chairman.
During the year the Remuneration Committee has
systematically reviewed the remuneration of the Group's senior
executives. Both base salaries and bonus entitlement were
reviewed by reference to a benchmarking survey carried out by
Hewitts on behalf of the Committee. As a consequence the
salaries of some of the members of the senior management
team were increased in line with increased responsibility and
competitive market salary rates.
Components of Executive Directors' Remuneration
Base Salary
The annual salary of each executive director is paid monthly in
cash. It is determined by the Committee and is effective from 
1 August each year. The salary reflects the experience and level
of competence of the individual as judged annually by the
Committee taking into account salary levels in the market.
Annual Bonus
An annual bonus is available to the executive directors
calculated by reference to the performance of the Company as
measured against targets agreed by the Committee.
In the 2005-06 financial year, the maximum payout was
targeted at 50% of base salary. The bonus plan covers overall
company financial performance, divisional growth targets and
the achievement of operational factors covering Corporate and
Personal objectives. Payout against the plan is designed to
reward the financial factors at 84% and the operational factors
at 16%. The financial targets surround the achievement of
budgeted operating profit and stretch targets over growth in
operating profit. The bonus hurdles are weighted towards the
growth element. 
The Committee's policy in respect of bonuses for the 
2006-07 financial year is again to base awards on a mix of
financial and operating objectives.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives have customarily been provided to
executive directors through a series of share option schemes.
Late in 2004/05, the Remuneration Committee completed a
comprehensive assessment of all elements of the remuneration
of the company's senior executives. This included an
independent review of base salary, careful evaluation of the
annual bonus plan and an in-depth evaluation of the LTIP .
Based on this assessment the Committee concluded that 
the base salaries and annual bonus plan are well aligned with
the Group's goal of offering senior executives short-term
remuneration that attracts and retains the highest calibre of
executives and ensures appropriate focus on our short-term
operating goals.
However, the Committee concluded that the absence of
senior executive shareholding requirements and weaknesses in
the current long-term incentive plan left the Group short of its
goal of aligning the interests of senior executives with those of
shareholders on a long-term basis. Following extensive
consultation with institutional shareholders, changes to the 
long-term incentive plan were approved at the Annual General
Meeting on 9 September 2005. The primary elements of the
changes were:
- Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a
shareholding equivalent to one times annual salary over a five
year period and to maintain this level of shareholding. Other
senior executives are expected to accumulate a lower level of
shareholding over a similar timeframe;
- Performance conditions will be EPS growth at stretch target
levels over a three year timeframe. EPS provides a clear line
of sight for management to shareholder value growth; and 
- LTIP payouts will be in the form of shares, hence providing a
means for senior executives to achieve shareholding goals
through the attainment of performance conditions.
Under this new LTIP the Remuneration Committee is able 
Remuneration Report continued
>> Unaudited Information 20 Bespak plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
to grant either Performance shares or share-settled Share
Appreciation Rights (SARs) or a mixture of the two. A
Performance Share is the award of a right to a certain number 
of Bespak shares which will vest at the end of a three year
performance period subject to the performance conditions being
met. SARs comprise awards similar in design to share options.
They give the executive the right to benefit from any increase in
the value of a fixed number of shares calculated from the date
the SAR is awarded to the date when the SAR is exercised.
However, unlike a share option, the executive does not have to
pay to acquire the shares when the SAR is exercised. Instead,
the executive receives shares to the value of the aggregate price
increase of the shares less any withheld to satisfy income tax
and National Insurance obligations. This will be the current
market value at the time of exercise minus the market value of
the shares at the date of the award. A mixture of Performance
Shares and SARs provides a method of reducing the potential
dilution arising from operating the Plan and so is to the benefit 
of shareholders.
Initially, the Committee anticipates an emphasis on
performance share grants with a move towards SARs as
executive shareholdings achieve target levels. The maximum
performance share grant level for executive directors is one
times salary. The company has been advised that a grant of
SARs has a present value of approximately one third of the value
of an equal number of performance shares. The Remuneration
Committee will take professional advice at the time of each 
grant to re-assess the appropriate value ratio of share grants
and SARs.
The first grant of awards under the new LTIP was made in
January 2006. Awards of SARs were made on 3 February 2006.
Performance Shares awards were granted on 23 January and 
3 February 2006.
Both Performance Shares and SARs awarded under the LTIP
are normally subject to the satisfaction of specific performance
conditions to be determined from time to time by the
Remuneration Committee. For the awards granted during the
year there were two performance conditions:
1 as a minimum, Bespak's Total Shareholder Return over the
three year performance period must at least match that of
the FTSE Health Index over the period. If this threshold
condition is not met the awards will lapse; and 
2 assuming the first condition is met, the awards will vest
depending upon the achievement of earnings per share 
(EPS) growth relative to the growth in the Retail Prices Index
(RPI) as follows:
- if EPS growth is less than RPI plus 3% a year growth over
the performance period, the awards will lapse;
- if EPS growth is above 10% a year in excess of RPI the
awards will vest in full; and
- if EPS growth is between 3% a year and 10% a year, the
awards will vest pro rata between 25% at RPI plus 3% a
year and 100% at RPI plus 10% a year.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the
performance conditions in certain circumstances, such as where
the performance conditions are determined to be unfair or
impractical, provided always that the amended conditions are no
more difficult to achieve than the original performance conditions.
However, if this discretion is to be used to relax the performance
conditions, this is subject to the prior approval of shareholders.
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme
No further awards were made under the 2002 scheme following
the adoption of the new LTIP described above. The operation of
the scheme has discontinued except in relation to options
already granted at the time of discontinuance. The last options
granted under the scheme were made on 12 July 2004.
1996 Executive and Company Share Option Schemes
The operation of the 1996 share option schemes was
discontinued except in relation to options already granted at the
time of such discontinuance. Under the terms of the schemes
the Company reserved the right to grant options subject to such
objective performance conditions as the directors saw fit. Mark
Throdahl is the only director to hold options under these
Schemes and his options are not subject to performance
conditions. These terms were negotiated on his appointment 
in 2001 and were considered appropriate in the context of 
his recruitment.
Pension and other benefits
In the interests of balancing the needs of the executive directors
against the liability of the Company, the Company is flexible in
the manner in which a pension is provided for executive
directors. It makes direct contributions to the Bespak Group
Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, through which
provision is made by way of a Group Life Assurance policy for
Remuneration Report continued
>> Unaudited Information Bespak plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  21
dependents' pensions and lump sums upon death in service, 
or money contributions by way of additional salary to enable the
funding of personal pension arrangements. Other customary
benefits such as car allowances, health benefits, the Bespak
Share Incentive Plan and the UK Savings Related Share Option
Scheme, (which are available to all eligible UK employees), are
made available to executive directors. Benefits in kind are not
pensionable. The Committee reviews the individual components
and the balance of these components from time to time.
Components of senior executives' remuneration.
There are eleven members of the Group Executive Committee
which, since the appointment to the Board of Paul Boughton in
June, includes the three executive directors. The reward structure
of the senior executives who are not executive directors is similar
to that of the executive directors although their level of bonus
entitlement and long-term incentive awards differ.
The graph below shows the growth in value of a hypothetical
 100 invested in Bespak plc ordinary shares on 29 April 2001
over five years compared with  100 invested in the FTSE Health
Sector over the same period.
Service contracts
Policy
The Committee's policy on executive directors' service contracts
is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year
unless specific recruitment needs dictate otherwise. Even in
such cases all reasonable efforts will be made to ensure that the
agreed notice period is reduced over time to one year. All three
executive directors have contracts terminable by the Company
on one year's notice and earlier termination for cause. The policy
of the Remuneration Committee is to treat each case on its
merits, in accordance with applicable law and any further policy
the Committee may adopt. In the event of early termination
other than for cause, the relevant executive director's then
current salary and contractual benefits would be taken into
account in calculating the liability of the Company.
The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to
salary are car allowance, pension and life assurance. Annual
bonuses and long term incentives are non-contractual and dealt
with in accordance with the rules of the applicable Schemes.
Specific contracts
Mark Throdahl's service contract is dated 22 June 2001. It can
be terminated by the Company or Mr Throdahl by giving one
year's notice. The Company may terminate the contract at any
time with immediate effect on payment of one year's salary in
lieu of notice.
Martin Hopcroft's contract is dated 14 October 2002 and can
be terminated by the Company by giving one year's notice and
by Mr Hopcroft on six month's notice.
Paul Boughton's contract is dated 20 March 2006 and can
be terminated by the Company by giving one year's notice and
by Mr Boughton on six month's notice.
There are no other provisions for compensation payable on
early termination of the above contracts.
External appointments 
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive
directors may accept external appointments as non-executive
directors of other companies. At present Paul Boughton is a
non-executive director of Raymarine plc for which in the 2006
year he received remuneration of  30,000. Paul was appointed
an executive director of the Company after the end of the 2006
year end on 1st June 2006. Neither of the other executive
directors hold any external appointments. The directors are
entitled to keep the fees from external appointments.
Policy on non-executive directors' remuneration
The Board is responsible for determining the policy on
remuneration of non-executive directors. The Company aims to
attract non-executive directors who, through their experience,
can further the interests of the Company through their
contribution to strategic development and their stewardship. The
Board's policy for the forthcoming and subsequent years is to
provide fees at a level commensurate with Bespak's size. The
Remuneration Report continued
>> Unaudited Information
Bespak plc Total Return Index
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
April 2002 April 2003 April 2004 April 2005 April 2006
FTSE Healthcare Sector
Total Return Index
Bespak plc 22 Bespak plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Board does not grant share options to non-executive directors. It
seeks to encourage non-executive directors to hold shares in the
Company, in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Non-executive directors are each paid a flat and equal fee. An
additional sum comprising 10% of this flat fee is paid to those
non-executive directors who also chair Board Committees in
recognition of the additional time and commitment required for
such role. In the event that any one non-executive director were
to chair two Board Committees it has been agreed in principle
that he would be entitled to two such additional sums.
Components of non-executive directors' remuneration
Non-executive directors receive cash fees paid monthly or
quarterly. Their travel and other reasonable expenses incurred 
in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed.
Terms of appointment
The services of John Robinson are provided under the terms of 
a consultancy agreement the terms of which provide automatic
termination if he ceases to be a director. All other non-executive
directors have appointment letters, the terms of which recognise
that their appointments are subject to the Company's articles of
association and their service is at the discretion of the
shareholders. All non-executive directors submit themselves for
election at the Annual General Meeting following their
appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three
years. The appointment letters for all non-executive directors,
including the Chairman, provide for an initial three year period of
service subject to the usual rights of removal by shareholders
and termination under the Company's Act 1985 and the articles
of association. George Meredith's appointment continues until 
5 September 2006. Mr Meredith will not seek re election at the
Company's Annual General Meeting. His appointment will
therefore be extended for a matter of a few days until the date
of the Annual General Meeting at which point Mr Meredith will
retire as a non-executive director of the Company. Peter Fellner,
Chris Banks, Jim Dick and Paul Boughton seek election at the
Annual General Meeting and John Robinson and Mark Throdahl
seek re-election.
Remuneration Report continued
>> Unaudited Information
The table below shows remuneration receivable by the directors in the financial year.
Pension 2006
Salary allowance/ Other annual 2006 2005
and fees contributions benefits bonus Total Total
 000  000  000  000  000  000
Executive
JH Robinson (Chairman) 103 - - - 103 103
MC Throdahl 299 89 42 151 581 460
MP Hopcroft 165 33 11 84 293 244
Non-Executive
WG Meredith 25 - - - 25 25
Sir John Chisholm 10 - - - 10 25
JP Cashman 25 - - - 25 25
AR Auer (resigned 26 April 2006) 25 - - - 25 2
P Fellner (appointed 14 November 2005) 12 - - - 12 -
J Dick (appointed 26 April 2006) - - - - - -
C Banks (appointed 26 April 2006) - - -- - -
Total 664 122 53 235 1,074 884