 The Committee believes it is essential that BG Group's remuneration 
policy and its implementation are clearly aligned with the interests 
of shareholders and corporate governance best practice in the UK. 
The Group's ability, as an internationally diversified gas and oil company, 
to compete for executive talent in a global market should be viewed 
by shareholders in this context.
2013 was Chris Finlayson's first year as Chief Executive and, in May, 
he provided his strategy update. During the year, the Company delivered 
sound trading results and operational performance, made progress on 
a number of its key growth projects and achieved further good progress 
against the HSSE scorecard. However, following a number of announcements 
during the year and on 27 January 2014, the growth outlook for BG Group 
for 2014 and 2015 was reduced, owing to developments in Egypt and 
the USA, and a deteriorating operational performance in some of our 
base assets.
The Committee reviewed the outcome of the 2013 annual bonus scorecard 
for the Executive Directors in this context. Before considering individual 
performance, the bonus scorecard outcome was 54.64% (compared to  
42.5% target and 85% stretch). After careful consideration, the Committee 
determined that the business performance scorecard outcome should be 
reduced by 20% to 43.71% and that the bonuses awarded to the current and 
former Directors employed at the time of the award would be in the form  
of deferred awards over BG Group plc shares.
Following the Committee's annual review of Executive Directors' salaries, 
no increases were made. The next review is due in March 2015.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the design of the long-term 
incentive plan (LTIP) and the Directors' Remuneration Policy. The Committee 
consulted major shareholders to solicit their views on both of these 
matters and carefully considered all feedback received. In its review of 
the LTIP , the Committee determined that relative TSR remains the most 
appropriate LTIP performance measure given the strategy's focus on 
shareholder value and the difficulties in normalising other financial 
measures for foreign exchange and commodity price fluctuations over the 
longer term. The Committee will continue to evaluate the use of additional 
performance measures but, in the near term, relative TSR will be 
retained as the principal LTIP performance measure.
The Committee has considered shareholder feedback on LTIP threshold 
vesting levels, and will continue to keep this under review by reference 
to BG Group's peer group. In the meantime, the Committee remains 
committed to setting challenging LTIP targets for threshold vesting, 
which result in 25% of an award vesting. For the LTIP award vesting in 
2013, granted in 2010, the threshold level of performance was not attained 
and no award vested. To further strengthen alignment with shareholders' 
interests, the Committee introduced a two-year holding period, during 
which forfeiture and malus provisions also apply, for 50% of the net 
vested shares from LTIP awards. This is effective for the 2013 LTIP 
Performance Share Awards and future awards.
During 2013, the Committee also reviewed the shareholding guidelines 
for Executive Directors. To encourage share ownership and, again, 
further strengthen alignment with shareholders' interests, the guideline 
was increased from 200% to 300% of salary. Net shares from incentive 
awards are to be retained until the guideline is achieved.
In July 2013, the Company announced that Simon Lowth would be joining 
BG Group as Chief Financial Officer. In order to recruit Simon it was 
necessary to buy out his 2013 bonus entitlement and the share awards 
foregone on leaving his former employer. Further details of these awards 
are provided in the report. Simon joined the Company on 2 December 2013 
and, in light of the market's reaction to the 27 January 2014 announcement, 
the Committee re-considered the buy-out awards made for the purposes 
of his recruitment in view of a significant diminution in their value. 
Following consultation with the Company's major shareholders, the 
Company made a further grant to Simon in the form of a deferred award 
over BG Group plc shares to honour the agreed value of the buy-out awards. 
The proportion of shares that vest under the new award will be reduced by 
the proportion of shares that vest under the original buy-out awards.
In November 2013, the Company announced that Martin Houston had 
stepped down as an Executive Director and as Chief Operating Officer. 
Martin had given the Company notice of his intention to retire from  
the Group. The Committee reviewed and considered his outstanding 
share awards and, in accordance with the Company's policy on 
retirement, agreed that Martin would be treated as a retiree for the 
purposes of the relevant incentive plan rules. Further details are 
provided in the report.
The main changes in the report from last year are the inclusion in the 
report of two distinct sections:
   The first section, the Directors' Remuneration Policy (pages 66 to 70), 
sets out the components of reward for Directors and how they are linked 
to the business strategy, and will be the subject of a binding vote at our 
AGM; and
   The second section, the Annual Remuneration Report (pages 71 to 79), 
reports on the implementation of the remuneration policy and the 
remuneration of the Directors for the 2013 financial year, and will be 
the subject of an advisory vote at our AGM.
The Committee believes that the Group's overall remuneration policy, reward 
components and emphasis on performance-related reward continue to be 
appropriate in the context of market and corporate governance developments 
in the UK. Other than the changes noted above, there were no further 
changes to remuneration arrangements during the year.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments relating to 
executive reward, while keeping those aspects at BG Group and the 
Directors' Remuneration Policy under review.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support.
Dr john hooD
Chairman of the  
r emuneration Committee
Structure of the report
Directors' Remuneration Policy - pages 66 to 70.
Annual Remuneration Report - pages 64 and 65, 
and 71 to 79.
At the Company's forthcoming AGM on  
15 May 2014, the Directors' Remuneration  
Policy will be subject to a binding vote  
by shareholders, and this letter and the  
Annual Remuneration Report will be subject  
to an advisory vote by shareholders.
The Committee believes that 
the Group's overall remuneration 
policy, reward components 
and emphasis on performance-
related reward continue to be 
appropriate in the context of 
market and corporate governance 
developments in the UK. 
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 64
REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE'S RESPONSIBILITIES
The Committee's principal responsibilities are:
   setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Group's overall remuneration policy and strategy;
   setting, reviewing and approving the remuneration arrangements (including any bonuses, incentive payments, share awards,  
pension and benefit arrangements, and termination payments) of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Executive Directors;
   reviewing and approving the remuneration arrangements (including any bonuses, incentive payments, share awards, pension and benefit 
arrangements, and termination payments) of members of the GEC who are not Executive Directors, and the Company Secretary; and
   reviewing and approving the rules of (and any significant amendment to) any long-term incentive plan (whether cash or share-based),  
deferred bonus plan, cash-based incentive plan, or share plan, subject to final approval by the Board and/or shareholders, where necessary.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the BG Group website at www.bg-group.com/remunerationcommittee 
and copies are available on request.
REMUNERATION REPORT - GLOSSARy Of TERMS
These terms or acronyms are used in the following report:
Acronyms
AGM Annual General Meeting HMRC HM Revenue & Customs
AIS Annual Incentive Scheme, the Company's annual bonus plan HSSE Health, safety, security and environment 
BGPS BG Pension Scheme, a funded defined benefit pension scheme which 
was closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2013 
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan
BGSBS BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme, an unfunded defined benefit 
pension scheme which was closed to future accrual with effect 
from 31 December 2013 
PSA Performance Share Award, an award granted under the LTIP 
which is subject to performance conditions other than in 
exceptional circumstances
CSOS Company Share Option Scheme, a legacy plan under which share 
options were previously granted
ROACE Return on average capital employed 
DBP Deferred Bonus Plan SIP Share Incentive Plan, an HMRC approved plan for UK employees 
EPS Earnings per share TRCF Total recordable case frequency
EPV Estimated present value, a measure of the economic or fair value 
of a share award
TSR Total shareholder return 
GEC Group Executive Committee
VBDP Voluntary Bonus Deferral Plan 
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES
BG Group's Directors' Remuneration Policy as detailed on pages 66 to 70 is based on the following principles, which are reviewed annually  
to ensure they continue to be appropriate and support BG Group's business strategy.
BG Group's remuneration principles for Executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive Committee
Shareholder-aligned  	 The	performance-related	incentive	arrangements	are	designed	to	align	the	interests	of	executives	with	those	of	shareholders	
and establish a clear link between remuneration and sustained individual and corporate performance. 
 	 BG	Group's	shareholding	guidelines	encourage	Executive	Directors,	GEC	members	and	certain	other	senior	employees	to	build	
up and retain a minimum holding of shares. 
market-competitive 
and aligned with 
the u K Corporate 
Governance Code
 	 The	Policy	is	designed	to	deliver	reward	that	will	facilitate	the	recruitment,	retention	and	motivation	of	the	executive	talent	
necessary to deliver successfully BG Group's growth strategy.
 	 It	takes	appropriate	account	of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	and	best	practice	guidelines	published	by	regulators,	
institutional shareholder and other bodies.
Performance-related  	 At	the	Executive	Director	and	senior	employee	levels,	the	majority	of	the	reward	opportunity	is	provided	through	 
performance-related incentives.
 	 Reward	under	these	incentives	is	linked	to	both	individual	and	BG	Group's	performance.	When	setting	targets	and	assessing	
performance, appropriate account is taken of business risk and the delivery of sustained returns to shareholders.
65
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report SUMMARy Of REMUNERATION POLICy f OR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The table below summarises the elements of Executive Directors' remuneration. For notes to this table, please see page 68.
Base salary
To attract and retain talent to help 
achieve our strategic objectives.
Annual Incentive Scheme
Delivered in the form of cash 
awards, automatic deferral 
into DBP share awards  
and/or voluntary deferral  
into VBDP share awards.
Designed to reward the 
achievement of the strategic 
and operational business 
priorities for the financial year.
The DBP and VBDP are designed 
to provide further alignment with 
the interests of shareholders.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
Awards over BG Group shares
Designed to align the interests 
of Executive Directors with those 
of shareholders by rewarding 
the Executive Directors for value 
growth over the longer term.
Benefits 
To attract and retain talent to help 
achieve our strategic objectives.
Pension
To attract and retain talent to help 
achieve our strategic objectives.
Paid monthly and, usually, reviewed 
annually with any increases taking 
effect from 1 April. The review involves 
the consideration of market position 
relative to relevant comparator 
groups, including our sector peers 
and non-financial services FTSE 30 
constituents, and is also influenced by:
 	 the	Executive	Director's	role,	
experience and performance;
 	 business	performance,	the	wider	
market and economic conditions; and
 	 the	range	of	salary	increases	applying	
across the Group in similar inflationary 
environments.
The Committee may review and adjust 
salaries other than in the course of 
the annual review, including where 
an Executive Director's role or market 
positioning changes significantly. 
Where	the	change	in	role	is	on	an	
interim basis, the Committee may 
determine that, instead of an increase 
in salary, a non-pensionable interim 
allowance is payable, the level of 
which will be informed by those 
factors influencing salary reviews.
The AIS is reviewed prior to the start of 
each financial year to ensure the bonus 
opportunity, performance measures and 
weightings are appropriate and continue 
to support the strategic and operational 
business priorities for the forthcoming 
financial year. Stretching financial and 
non-financial performance measures 
and targets are set at the start of each 
financial year.
Actual AIS awards are determined by a 
two-stage process. Firstly, performance is 
assessed against the agreed measures and 
targets. Secondly, the Committee reviews 
these results in the context of individual 
performance and the underlying 
performance of and prospects for the 
business. If the Committee considers that 
the stage one outcome does not reflect 
the performance or prospects of the 
Company appropriately, it may adjust 
the stage one outcome, downwards or 
upwards, within the overall AIS limits, at its 
discretion. The treatment of AIS awards 
on termination and on a change of control 
are set out on page 69.
AIS awards are subject to automatic 
and/or voluntary deferral into awards 
over BG Group shares. For AIS awards 
in excess of 100% of base salary, 
the excess is automatically deferred 
for three years into share awards over 
BG Group shares under the DBP, 
which accrue dividend equivalents.
Forfeiture and malus provisions apply 
to the vesting of DBP awards, which may 
be reduced in circumstances where the 
Company becomes aware of misconduct 
or performance issues relevant to the 
bonus award year, or if the individual 
ceases to be an Executive Director or 
employee as a result of misconduct. 
Forfeiture and malus provisions apply to 
VBDP awards, which may be reduced if the 
individual ceases to be an Executive Director 
or employee as a result of misconduct.
Executive Directors are also able voluntarily 
to defer a proportion of their AIS award into 
awards over BG Group shares under the 
VBDP , which is available to other employees. 
VBDP awards vest three months after 
the date of grant. Dividend equivalents 
accrue on VBDP awards.
The number of shares comprising DBP or 
VBDP awards is calculated using the average 
share price over the three or five dealing days 
preceding the date of grant. The automatic 
and voluntary deferral arrangements are 
reviewed periodically and may be altered 
or removed by the Committee.
Details for the current Executive Directors 
for the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 72.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP , the 
Committee may grant Performance Share 
Awards, and/or Market Value Options 
to Executive Directors. To date, the 
Committee has granted only Performance 
Share Awards to Executive Directors.
The award levels and performance 
conditions on which vesting will be 
dependent are reviewed annually to 
ensure they remain appropriate. Awards 
are typically granted annually in 
September. A number of factors are 
considered when determining the level 
of any award, including the position of 
the Executive Director's overall reward 
package relative to the market, the 
Executive Director's performance and 
experience, the face value and EPV of the 
proposed award and plan dilution limits.
EPV is a measure of the economic or 
fair value of an award. The measure takes 
account of the performance conditions, 
the risk that the performance conditions 
might not be met and the risk that awards 
may be forfeited. EPV is calculated 
independently by the Committee's 
advisers. The face value of an award 
is equal to the number of shares, or 
shares under option, multiplied by 
the relevant share price at grant.
Performance Share Awards vest over 
a period set by the Committee, which 
will normally be three years from the 
date of grant. Dividend equivalents accrue 
on Performance Share Awards. For 2013 
and later LTIP Performance Share Awards, 
a proportion of the net vested shares on 
vesting are subject to a further holding 
period, during which forfeiture and 
malus provisions apply. The number of 
shares that will be released at the end 
of this holding period may be reduced 
in circumstances where the Company 
becomes aware of misstatement of the 
financial accounts, individual misconduct 
or performance issues. At grant, the 
Committee sets the length of the holding 
period and the proportion of net vested 
shares subject to the holding period. 
For the life of this Policy, these will 
be at least two years and at least 50% 
respectively. The treatment of LTIP 
awards on termination and on a change 
of control are set out on page 69.
Benefits typically include life assurance, 
income protection, personal accident 
insurance, annual leave, financial 
counselling and medical insurance. 
Executive Directors may be provided 
with additional benefits, such as on 
site fitness facilities, on the same basis 
as other employees. Flexible benefit 
arrangements may be offered including 
a company car or cash in lieu of a 
company car and, where appropriate 
to assist with their roles, chauffeur 
services may also be provided.
Executive Directors are also eligible to 
participate in our all-employee share 
plans, currently the Share Incentive 
Plan and the Sharesave Plan, on the 
same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors are covered under 
the terms of the Company's directors' 
and officers' liability insurance.
Executive Directors can choose to 
participate in the relevant local defined 
contribution pension arrangement 
or receive cash in lieu or a combination 
thereof.
Employees who joined BG Group 
in the UK prior to April 2007 may be 
deferred members of the UK defined 
benefit pension arrangement which 
was closed to future accrual on 
31 December 2013.
PURPOSE AND  
LINk TO S TRATEGy
OPERATION
fIXED PAy
VARIABLE PAy
The Directors' Remuneration Policy described in this section (the Policy) is intended to apply from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, subject to 
shareholder approval. The Committee will review, but not necessarily revise, the Policy at least annually to ensure that it remains aligned with 
business needs and is appropriately positioned in the market. The Policy incorporates some flexibility and discretion to allow the Committee to 
manage and determine Directors' remuneration over the life of the Policy. If approved, this Policy will continue to apply until a revised policy 
receives shareholder approval and becomes applicable.
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 66
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICy Base salary increases will be applied 
in line with the outcome of the review. 
Maximum salary increases to Executive 
Directors will be within the range of 
those awarded to other employees in 
similar inflationary environments, other 
than where it is appropriate to recognise 
performance showing significant 
progression within the role or a material 
change in the responsibilities of the role.
The level of base salary paid, and any 
interim allowance, will vary by role and 
will be no more than is necessary to 
attract and retain Executive Directors 
with the necessary experience and skills.
Details for the current Executive Directors for 
the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 71.
The AIS offers a maximum opportunity 
of up to 200% of base salary, with 
target and threshold opportunities 
of up to 100% and up to 45% of base 
salary, respectively. Each year, the 
Committee determines maximum, 
target and threshold AIS opportunities, 
which may vary by role, on an individual 
basis, within those scheme limits.
Employees who are not members of 
the GEC are eligible for an additional 
10% award of the amount deferred 
under the VBDP that vests, provided 
their voluntary award is deferred for 
at least	three	years.	Where	employees	
with these awards subsequently 
become members of the GEC, it is 
the Company's policy to honour the 
awards in accordance with their terms, 
which may differ from the terms of 
awards granted under this Policy.
Individual limits for the Executive Directors 
for the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 72.
Awards granted to individuals under 
the LTIP are subject to the following 
annual limits:
 	 an	overall	EPV	limit	of	300%	
of base salary; and
 	 the	face	value	of	each	type	of	award	
cannot exceed 600% of base salary.
Both limits may be exceeded in exceptional 
circumstances, such as recruitment or 
retention, at the Committee's discretion. 
In such exceptional circumstances, the 
maximum annual value is an overall EPV 
limit of 575% of base salary, other than 
for buy-out awards on, or in connection 
with, recruitment. This limit has been 
determined following a review of the 
upper quartile of awards to the chief 
executives of the non-financial 
services FTSE 30 constituents and 
the median of awards to the chief 
executives of the Group's sector peers.
The maximum opportunity for 
threshold performance is 25% of the 
award granted, above which straight 
line vesting applies.
Employees who are not Executive 
Directors may receive awards 
without performance conditions. 
Where	employees	with	these	awards	
subsequently become Executive 
Directors, it is the Company's policy 
to honour the awards in accordance 
with their terms, which may differ 
from the terms of awards granted 
under this Policy.
Benefit values vary by role and are 
reviewed by reference to market position 
periodically. The maximum level of 
benefits will be no more than is necessary 
to attract and retain Executive Directors 
with the necessary experience and skills.
Executive Directors will be reimbursed 
for business expenses relating to the 
performance of their duties, including 
travel, accommodation and subsistence. 
Occasional travel, accommodation and 
subsistence expenses will be reimbursed 
and may be grossed up for any tax due 
where the Company requires Executive 
Directors' spouses or partners to travel.
Details for the current Executive Directors 
for the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 71.
Executive Directors can choose a 
pension contribution or receive cash 
in lieu, or a combination thereof, 
up to 30% of base salary.
No current Executive Director is a 
deferred member of the UK defined 
benefit pension arrangement.
Details for the current Executive Directors for 
the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 71.
Individual and business performance 
is considered in reviewing and setting 
base salary.
The performance measures selected for 
the year, and their relative weighting, 
may vary each year depending upon 
strategic and operational business 
priorities. The performance of each 
Executive Director is measured against 
their individual objectives for the year 
which, as part of their operational 
objectives, include challenging budget 
and stretch targets in key operational 
areas. Performance measures may 
be selected from externally reported 
financial measures, such as EPS and 
ROACE, other internal financial 
measures, such as working capital 
targets, and/or operational measures, 
such as project performance and HSSE.
The Committee has the flexibility 
to vary the weightings and to select 
alternative or additional measures over 
the life of this Policy to ensure that 
the AIS is aligned to the strategic and 
operational priorities of the business 
for the forthcoming financial year, 
subject to maintaining a weighting 
of at least 50% for externally reported 
financial measures, such as EPS  
and ROACE.
Details of the performance measures for 
the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 72.
LTIP awards vest in accordance with 
the plan rules and vesting is usually 
subject to the following conditions:
 	 continued	employment;
 	 the	individual's	performance	not	
having fallen significantly below that 
expected at the date of grant; and
 	 the	Company's	performance	over	
a three-year performance period, 
which will usually start with the 
month of grant for TSR.
Performance measures are reviewed 
each year by the Committee and 
selected to focus Executive Directors 
on the strategic business priorities 
and the interests of shareholders 
over the longer term.
To ensure that the LTIP rewards value 
creation over the longer term, the 
Committee has the flexibility to vary 
the weighting of the TSR performance 
measure and to set the weighting of 
other measures, which are externally 
reported financial measures, such as 
EPS and ROACE. Over the life of this 
Policy, relative TSR will be retained as a 
performance measure and this 
performance measure will have 
a weighting of at least 50%.
Buy-out awards on recruitment may 
be granted without performance 
conditions and/or a holding period 
at the Committee's discretion.
Details of the performance measure for 
the period under review are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report on page 74.
Some benefits, such as life assurance, 
are calculated by reference to base 
salary.
Calculated by reference to base salary.
OPPORTUNITy PERf ORMANCE MEASURES
67
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report Chris Finlayson, Chief Executive
(  million)
Minimum
Target
Maximum
100% 
15% 
35% 26% 39% 
21% 64% 
0 2 4 6 8 10
9.1
3.8
1.3
Salary, benefits and pension AIS LTIP
Simon Lowth, Chief Financial Officer
(  million)
Minimum
Target
Maximum
100% 
19% 
45% 19% 36% 
20% 61% 
0 2 4 6 8 10
5.4
2.3
1.0
Salary, benefits and pension AIS LTIP
ILLUSTRATION Of POTENTIAL RE w ARD OPPORTUNITIES f OR Th E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The graphs below provide an indication of the reward opportunity for each of the current Executive Directors in 2014, based on their roles at 
1 January 2014 and this Policy. As all the Executive Directors are paid in Pounds Sterling, the Committee considers it appropriate that the figures 
detailed below are presented in Pounds Sterling.
In illustrating the future reward opportunities, the following assumptions have been made:
AIS - awarded for 2014 LTIP - awarded during 2014 Base salary, benefits and pension
Maximum AIS amounts are awarded at 
maximum level (inclusive of any 
amounts awarded under the DBP).
Performance such that 
awards vest at maximum level 
(100% of awards made).
Base salary, benefits and pension or cash in 
lieu of pension (at a rate of 30% of base salary) 
are provided in all scenarios. Base salary is 
based on base salaries as at 1 January 2014, 
which, following the Committee's annual 
review, will apply for 2014.
Target AIS amounts are awarded at 
target levels.
Performance such that awards 
vest at threshold level (25%).
Minimum Threshold performance not 
achieved. No AIS payable.
Threshold performance not 
achieved. No LTIP vests.
In all scenarios, the impacts of share price movements and dividends or dividend equivalents have been excluded.
NOTES TO Th E POLICy TABLE
It is the Company's policy to honour pre-existing 
remuneration obligations and commitments that 
were entered into prior to the commencement 
of this Policy or before an employee becomes an 
Executive Director, which may include obligations 
under service contracts, annual and long-term 
incentive schemes and pension arrangements 
with terms that differ from this Policy.
AIS and LTIP performance measures and targets
The Committee selects AIS performance measures 
that are central to the Company's overall strategy 
and that are key measures used by the senior 
management to assess the performance of the 
Company's business operations. The AIS performance 
targets are determined annually based on the 
Board-approved budget for the coming year, 
with outperformance relative to the Company's 
own forecasts being required to achieve the 
maximum opportunity.
For LTIP awards, the Committee selects performance 
measures that are appropriate for the Company's overall 
strategy and which are linked to value creation over 
the longer term. The LTIP performance targets will 
be determined annually by the Committee, with 
outperformance being required to achieve the 
maximum opportunity.
The Committee is of the opinion that the AIS and LTIP 
performance targets which are based on Company 
measures are commercially sensitive and that it would be 
detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose 
them before the completion of the relevant financial 
year(s)	to	which	they	apply.	Where	the	AIS	targets	are	no	
longer commercially sensitive, typically following the  
end of the financial year(s), they will be disclosed  
in that year's remuneration report. For LTIP awards, 
TSR targets will be disclosed in the remuneration  
report disclosing the grant and, where other financial 
measures are used as performance measures for the LTIP , 
the targets will be disclosed when they are no longer 
commercially sensitive, typically following the end of the 
financial year in which the related LTIP awards vest.
Differences in remuneration policy 
for other employees
The structure of reward for the remainder of the 
GEC generally mirrors that of the Executive Directors. 
The structure of employees' reward cascades 
from that of the Executive Directors. All employees 
are entitled to base salary, with salaries reviewed 
at least annually, and benefits and pension 
arrangements that are set by reference to the 
local market	in	which	they	are	employed.	Where	
appropriate and feasible (for example, under local 
legislation or practice), employees also participate 
in the AIS and LTIP arrangements, with their target 
and maximum levels of participation being set 
by reference to the local market. 
In order to encourage share ownership, the 
Company currently provides two HMRC approved 
share plans for its UK employees, the SIP and 
the Sharesave Plan. For non-UK employees in 
a number of key overseas locations, a Global 
Partnership Plan is provided.
CONSIDERATION Of EMPLOyMENT CONDITIONS ELSEwh ERE IN Th E GROUP
Employees were not consulted as part of setting this Policy. In considering changes to remuneration policy, salary reviews, AIS and/or LTIP proposals 
for the Executive Directors, the Committee receives information on the policies and proposals applicable to employees in general and uses this 
information to inform its decisions on Executive Directors' remuneration. The Committee also has oversight of the grant of all share awards across 
the Company.
BG Group values its employees and aims to provide reward packages that are market-competitive within each employee's country of employment. 
The Company receives feedback from employees on remuneration as part of the feedback received from regular all-employee engagement surveys.
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 68
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICy CONTINUED OTh ER POLICIES RELATING  
TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Exit payments policy
The Company's policy is to include change of 
control provisions in the Executive Directors' 
service contracts. The Committee considers 
that these provisions assist with recruitment 
and retention and that their inclusion is 
therefore in the best interests of shareholders. 
Should an Executive Director's employment 
be terminated within 12 months of a change 
of control, they are entitled to liquidated 
damages equal to one year's gross salary plus 
30% of base salary (as a pension contribution 
or as cash in lieu of pension) less any deductions 
the employer is required to make. The Committee 
considers this to be a genuine pre-estimate 
of loss.
The Company is entitled to terminate an 
Executive Director's employment without 
notice by making a payment in lieu of notice 
in accordance with their contract, which 
will not exceed an amount equal to annual 
base salary and cash in lieu of pension. 
As an alternative to making a payment in lieu 
of notice, the Company may terminate an 
Executive Director's service contract in breach 
of contract and make a payment of damages 
in respect of that breach, taking into account 
a variety of factors, including individual and 
Company performance, the obligation for the 
Executive Director to mitigate his or her own 
loss (for example, by gaining new employment) 
and the Executive Director's length of service. 
It is expected that any such payments would 
not exceed one year's base salary and benefits 
(including pension) consistent with their notice 
period of 12 months. In connection with the 
termination of an Executive Director's contract, 
the Company may make a payment on account 
of accrued but untaken leave and may pay 
outplacement fees and legal fees for support 
provided to the individual. Other than change 
of control or payment in lieu of notice, 
the Executive Directors' service contracts 
do not contain provisions for compensation 
in the event of early termination.
The rules of the AIS provide that in the event 
of: (i) a change in control where the AIS is not 
carried forward under new ownership; or (ii) 
an employee ceasing employment for a specified 
reason (such as ill health, agreed retirement, 
redundancy or in such other circumstances 
as the Committee considers appropriate taking 
account of the individual's performance 
and the circumstances of their departure), 
then, to the extent the performance measures 
have been satisfied at the date of the change 
in control or cessation of employment 
(as appropriate), AIS amounts may be paid 
on a time-apportioned basis.
DBP awards do not normally vest for three 
years and are subject to forfeiture in the 
event of leaving employment (other than for 
reasons such as ill health, agreed retirement, 
redundancy or in such other circumstances as 
the Committee considers appropriate taking 
account of the individual's performance and 
the circumstances of their departure, where 
share awards would vest when employment 
ceases). Share awards under the VBDP do 
not normally vest for three months and are 
subject to forfeiture in the event of leaving 
employment for misconduct.
LTIP awards do not normally vest and are 
subject to forfeiture in the event of leaving 
employment. For LTIP awards granted before 
1 September 2013, if an employee ceases 
employment prior to the vesting of an award 
for a specified reason (such as ill health, 
agreed retirement, redundancy or in such other 
circumstances as the Committee considers 
appropriate taking account of the individual's 
performance and the circumstances of their 
departure), the awards will normally vest on 
the last day of employment, to the extent 
the performance measures are forecast at 
that time to be met, on a time-apportioned 
basis. For LTIP awards granted on or after 
1 September 2013, the awards will normally 
vest on schedule, to the extent any 
performance measures have been met,  
on a time-apportioned basis.
Additionally, all the Company's share plans 
contain provisions relating to a change of 
control. In general, outstanding awards and 
options would normally vest and become 
exercisable on a change of control, to the 
extent that any performance conditions have 
been satisfied at that time. If the Committee 
considers it appropriate, given the circumstances 
of the change of control, time apportionment 
may also apply.
The Committee has discretion to vary the treatment 
of awards for leavers under the Company's plans, 
including the AIS, DBP, VBDP and LTIP. Awards 
under the SIP and Sharesave may vest or become 
exercisable on or following termination, in 
accordance with the rules of the plan.
The Committee retains discretion to make 
payments to mitigate against statutory and other 
legal claims where it considers it prudent to do so.
Approach to recruitment
The Committee's approach to recruitment is to pay 
no more than is necessary to attract appropriate 
candidates. Any new Executive Director's package 
will include the same elements of remuneration as 
provided to the existing Executive Directors under 
this	Policy. Where	required	in	order	to	recruit	
an incoming Executive Director, additional benefits 
and other allowances such as those to assist 
with relocation, educational costs for children 
and tax equalisation may be provided.
Where,	in	order	to	recruit	an	incoming	
Executive Director, it is necessary to buy out 
bonuses or awards from a previous employer, 
the Committee will seek to do no more than 
match the estimated present value of those 
awards. In so doing, the Committee will take 
account of performance conditions and the 
time until vesting and seek to grant awards 
under the Company's current plans, principally 
the LTIP, that vest over a similar timeframe 
to those given up. The Committee will 
put in place arrangements that it considers 
appropriate in the circumstances and this 
may include making LTIP awards without 
performance conditions and/or a holding 
period. The Committee's discretion under 
Listing Rule 9.4.2 R will be limited to awarding 
remuneration under a plan specific to the 
individual in order to buy out awards on 
recruitment only (for example, where it is 
not possible to buy out an award under the 
Company's current plans). Other than making 
awards to an incoming Executive Director 
to buy out bonuses or awards from a 
previous employer where it is necessary 
to do so, it is the Company's policy not to 
offer any additional bonuses or awards 
on recruitment.
 
For internal candidates promoted to Executive 
Director, it is the Company's policy to honour 
all pre-existing remuneration obligations and 
commitments, other than those provisions 
which the Committee considers in its 
discretion should be amended to reflect 
the terms of this Policy. The terms of these 
pre-existing obligations and commitments 
may differ from the terms under this Policy 
and may include obligations under service 
contracts, annual and long-term incentive 
schemes and pension arrangements.
For recruitment, the Company's 
policy is to pay incoming Non-Executive 
Directors on the same basis as the  
other Non-Executive Directors.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS'  
SERVICE CONTRACTS
The Executive Directors' service contracts, 
including arrangements for early termination, 
are carefully considered by the Committee and 
are designed to recruit, retain and motivate 
Executive Directors of the quality required 
to manage the Company. The Committee 
considers that a notice period of one year 
is normally appropriate.
The Committee has discretion, in order to 
attract and retain suitable candidates, to offer 
contracts that contain an initial notice period 
in excess of one year, reducing to a one-year 
notice period after the expiry of this initial period.
Executive Directors' service contracts 
as at 31 December 2013
Details of the service contracts of the current 
Executive Directors are set out below:
Executive Directors Contract date Notice period
Chris Finlayson 14 Mar 12 1 year
Simon Lowth
(a)
3 Jul 13 1 year
(a) Simon Lowth was appointed as Executive Director 
and Chief Financial Officer on 2 December 2013. He is 
subject to election as a Director by shareholders  
at the 2014 AGM.
69
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report SUMMARy Of BG GROUP'S REMUNERATION POLICy f OR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Fixed pay Non-Executive Directors' fees
Purpose and link  
to strategy
To attract Non-Executive Directors who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the interests of shareholders and the 
implementation of the Company's strategy.
o peration Fees are set by the Board as a whole and the Chairman's fees are set by the Committee, without the participation of the Chairman.
In addition to the fees paid for participating as a Non-Executive Director of the Board, additional fees are paid for chairing and for 
membership of Board Committees and to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman's remuneration is reviewed annually and, for other Non-Executive Directors, fees are reviewed every two years. The reviews 
involve the consideration of a number of factors, including market position relative to relevant comparator groups, time commitment 
and competition for high-quality non-executive directors.
To facilitate the alignment of the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, Non-Executive Directors may  
elect to invest a portion of their fees, net of tax and on a regular basis, to acquire BG Group shares on the open market through the 
Non-Executive Directors' share purchase programme.
o pportunity The level of fees paid will be no more than is necessary to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors with the necessary experience and skills.
The aggregate of the basic fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors is limited by reference to the Company's Articles of Association 
as they may be amended by a resolution of the shareholders from time to time. The current limit on the aggregate basic fees that are 
payable is  1 million per financial year.
Details of the fees for the Non-Executive Directors for 2013, and the fees that will be paid until the completion of the 2014 review,  
are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 78.
Non-Executive	Directors	are	not	eligible	to	receive	pension	contributions,	cash	in	lieu	or	other	benefits	from	the	Company.	Where	
appropriate to assist with the role, chauffeur services may be provided for the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors are covered under the terms of the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance.
Non-Executive Directors will be reimbursed for business expenses relating to the performance of their duties including travel, 
accommodation and subsistence. Occasional travel, accommodation and subsistence expenses will be reimbursed and may be grossed  
up for any tax due where the Company requires Non-Executive Directors' spouses or partners to travel.
Performance measures Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company's share or incentive schemes.
CONSIDERATION Of S h AREh OLDER VIEw S
The Committee consulted with the Group's 
major shareholders and key institutional voting 
advisory bodies on a draft version of this 
Policy. The overall reaction from shareholders 
who expressed views on the draft was positive 
but some shareholders and the key advisory 
bodies provided constructive feedback on the 
proposed level of the Committee's discretion. 
The Committee considered this feedback in 
finalising this Policy and, as a result, the level 
of the Committee's discretion has been limited 
and/or clarified, as appropriate. The Policy still 
incorporates elements of flexibility and 
discretion that the Committee considers it 
prudent to reserve to allow the Committee 
to manage Directors' remuneration over 
the life	of	the	Policy.	Where	appropriate,	
the Committee will consult with major 
shareholders prior to making use of such 
flexibility or exercising its discretion. The 
Committee will explain the application of 
such flexibility or discretion to all shareholders 
in the subsequent Annual Remuneration 
Report, which is subject to an advisory vote.
The Company is committed to ongoing 
dialogue with shareholders and welcomes 
feedback on Directors' remuneration. 
The Committee believes it has a responsible 
approach to Directors' pay and that this 
Policy is appropriate and fit for purpose.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' 
LETTERS Of APPOINTMENT 
The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive 
Directors of a high calibre with broad commercial, 
international and/or other relevant experience. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by 
the Board on the recommendation of the 
Nominations Committee. Their appointment 
is for an initial term of three years, subject 
to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
following their appointment and annual 
re-election thereafter. The terms of engagement 
of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in a 
letter of appointment. Other than the Chairman, 
the Non-Executive Directors' letters of 
appointment do not contain any notice period 
or provision for compensation in the event 
of early termination of their appointment.
Chairman
Andrew Gould was appointed Chairman 
with effect from the conclusion of the AGM 
on 16 May 2012 for a three-year term. His fee is 
reviewed annually. His appointment is subject 
to annual re-election by shareholders at 
the AGM. He has a six-month notice period, 
which the Company considers is appropriate. 
The Company is entitled to terminate the 
Chairman's appointment without notice 
by making a payment in lieu of notice equal 
to the Chairman's fee for six months. Other 
than payment in lieu of notice, there is no 
provision for payment in the event of 
early termination.
Chairman and  
Non-Executive 
Directors' letters 
of appointment
Initial 
appoint-  
ment 
Date of 
appointment  
or re-
appointment
Expiry  
of term
Andrew Gould 1 Jun 11 16 May 12 May 15
Peter Backhouse 19 Jul 00 12 May 11 May 14
Vivienne Cox 8 Feb 12 8 Feb 12 Feb 15
Pam Daley
(a)
1 Jan 14 1 Jan 14 Dec 16
Martin Ferguson
(a)
1 Jan 14 1 Jan 14 Dec 16
Baroness Hogg 27 Jan 05 12 May 11 May 14
Dr John Hood 26 Apr 07 12 May 11 May 14
Caio	Koch-Weser 1 Nov 10 31 Oct 13 Oct 16
Lim Haw-Kuang 4 Mar 13 4 Mar 13 Mar 16
Sir David Manning 1 Jul 08 12 May 11 May 14
Mark Seligman 3 Dec 09 3 Dec 12 Dec 15
Patrick Thomas 15 Dec 10 14 Dec 13 Dec 16
(a) Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson were appointed as  
Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2014, subject to 
confirmation by election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
SUMMARy Of k Ey ELEMENTS Of SERVICE 
CONTRACTS Of Th E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Provision Summary of key terms
n otice period 12 months.
r etirement date There is no default retirement 
age. Requests for retirement are 
considered on a case by case basis. 
At the Executive Director level, it is 
expected that at least 12 months' 
notice will be provided in accordance 
with the contractual notice period.
r emuneration Base salary.
Pension contribution or cash in lieu.
Company car or cash in lieu.
Eligibility to participate in the 
annual and long-term incentive 
arrangements operated from 
time to time.
termination  
payment
Contractual provisions exist in 
the event of termination following 
a change of control. A payment 
in lieu of notice may also be made 
comprising base salary and cash 
in lieu of pension. The rules of the 
AIS and LTIP also include certain 
provisions on termination of 
employment. These provisions 
are discussed further in the 
Exit payments policy section.
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 70
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICy CONTINUED The following section of this report provides details of the implementation of the Directors' Remuneration Policy  
for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Current Executive Directors' base salaries
When	awarding	base	salary	increases,	the	
Committee considers, among other factors, 
the base salary increases applied elsewhere 
in the Group. The average annual salary 
increases that applied across the Group 
in April 2013 were 5.6%.
The reported salary figure within total 
remuneration for the Executive Directors 
includes SIP Flex Share allocations, where 
appropriate - the maximum allocation 
was  3 000 in 2013 ( 2 998 in 2012).
Executive Directors' benefits
Benefits include life assurance, income 
protection, personal accident insurance, 
company car or cash in lieu of company car, 
chauffeur services, spousal travel ( 66 649 
and  20 314 for Chris Finlayson and Martin 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' TOTAL REMUNERATION
Year
Salary 
 '000
Benefits 
 '000 
Cash in lieu  
of pension  
 '000
Pension 
benefits  
 '000
Bonus
 '000
(a)
Long-term 
incentive plan 
- annual award  
 '000
Long-term 
incentive plan 
- on-hire award 
 '000
(b)
Total 
remuneration  
 '000
Current Executive Directors
Chris Finlayson, appointed Chief Executive  
from 1 January 2013
2013 978 102 293 - 1 145 - - 2 518
2012 599 30 179 - - 302 1 110
Simon Lowth, appointed Chief Financial 
Officer from 2 December 2013
2013 58 3 18 - n/a - 675 754
2012 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
f ormer Executive Directors
Fabio Barbosa, Chief Financial Officer 
until 15 February 2013
(c)(d)
2013 90 3 27 - 52 - - 172
2012 702 31 210 - - - - 943
Martin Houston, Chief Operating Officer 
until 13 November 2013
(d)
2013 629 75 - 556 357 - - 1 617
2012 671 52 - 1 180 - 1 365 - 3 268
Den Jones, Interim Chief Financial Officer 
from 15 February to 2 December 2013
(d)(e)
2013 406 15 - 85 155 133 - 794
2012 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
(a) On 18 March 2014, the 2013 AIS awards were made to Chris Finlayson and Fabio Barbosa in the form of DBP awards over 106 610 and 4 841 BG Group plc shares, respectively. The awards to  
Martin Houston and Den Jones were made in the form of cash payments because individuals who are not Executive Directors or employees of the Group cannot receive DBP awards.
(b) On 11 December 2013, Simon Lowth received a Performance Share Award of vested shares not subject to performance conditions on account of 2013 bonus entitlements foregone 
on leaving his former employer which were not subject to further performance conditions. The number of shares was determined based on the estimated expected value of the 
entitlements foregone and an average BG Group plc share price of  12.35, calculated by reference to the five business days preceding the award date.
(c) Fabio Barbosa was granted leave of absence to undergo medical treatment in September 2012 and, in line with the Company's sick leave policy, he continued to receive his normal 
remuneration during this absence. He retired from the Board effective 15 February 2013.
(d) Fabio Barbosa, Martin Houston and Den Jones continued as employees of the Group after ceasing to be Executive Directors.
(e) Den Jones was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director on 15 February 2013 and, in recognition of his temporary increased workload and management position, 
was paid a temporary, non-pensionable additional allowance of  20 000 per month, which is included here in salary. Prior to this, Den Jones was Alternate Director for Fabio Barbosa from 
9 September 2012 to 15 February 2013 and received no additional remuneration in connection with his role as Alternate Director. Den Jones ceased to be Interim Chief Financial Officer 
and an Executive Director on 2 December 2013.
As all the current Directors are paid in Pounds Sterling, the Committee considers it appropriate that the figures disclosed in this report are presented in Pounds Sterling.
DEf INED BENEf IT PENSION INf ORMATION
Year
Age at  
31 December 
Pension  
age
Total accrued  
annual pension at  
31 December  
 '000 per annum
Increase in accrued 
annual pension  
in year to  
31 December  
 '000 
Pension  
benefit calculated  
using BIS  
methodology
 '000 per annum
Martin Houston
(a)
2013 56 60 360 35 556
Den Jones
(b)
2013 48 60 75 6 85
(a) Calculated for the period to 13 November 2013, when Martin Houston ceased to be an Executive Director.
(b) Calculated for the period from 15 February to 2 December 2013, when Den Jones was an Executive Director.
BASE SALARIES
1 April 2014  
 '000
2 December 2013  
 '000
1 April 2013  
 '000 
1 January 2013  
 '000
1 April 2012  
 '000
Chris Finlayson no change n/a no change 975 610
Simon Lowth no change 725 n/a n/a n/a
Houston, respectively), relocation,  
small gifts, financial counselling and 
medical insurance.
Executive Directors' pensions
The Executive Directors, other than Martin 
Houston and Den Jones, did not accrue any 
entitlement to post-retirement benefits and 
received a cash allowance in lieu of pensions 
contributions calculated at a rate of 30% 
of base salary.
Martin Houston and Den Jones are 
members of the BGPS, a funded defined 
benefit scheme, and Martin Houston is a 
member of the BGSBS, an unfunded defined 
benefit scheme. Martin Houston elected 
for  enhanced protection' with effect from 
6 April 2006, which limits the benefits 
provided by the BGPS.
Following a period of consultation, 
the BGPS and BGSBS were closed to future 
accrual with effect from 31 December 2013. 
The main features of the plans, which are 
the same for other members, are:
   normal pension age is 60;
   pension benefits accrue at 1/60 of 
final 12 months' salary for each year of 
pensionable service up to 31 December 2013;
   pensions normally increase in line with 
the retail prices index;
   an adult dependant pension equal to 
2/3 member's pension is payable on 
member's death; and
   a member can only claim an immediate 
pension before age 60 on an unreduced 
basis as a result of incapacity.
71
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT Weighting of 2013 performance metrics 
for all Executive Directors
 38% Group EPS
 12% Group ROACE
 20% Project performance
 15% Group HSSE
 15% Individual performance
For the 2013 incentive year, the Committee followed the two-stage review process outlined in the Directors' Remuneration Policy. This involved, 
for each metric, a review of performance against targets and, secondly, consideration of the outcomes of the first stage in the context of the underlying 
performance of the business and the business prospects, including operational performance, strategy and business development activities, 
and performance against industry peers.
After careful consideration, the Committee determined that the AIS business performance outcome should be reduced by 20% from 54.64% to 
43.71% and that 100% of the 2013 AIS awards to current or former Executive Directors would be in the form of deferred awards over BG Group 
shares under the DBP (which includes forfeiture and malus provisions), other than for individuals who had left the Company at the date of payment 
whose AIS awards were reduced by a further 5% in the absence of deferral and forfeiture provisions.
For the 2013 incentive year, the AIS business performance outcomes, prior to the reduction determined by the Committee, were as follows 
(all measures are Group-wide):
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' BONUS AWARDS UNDER THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME
2013 Annual Incentive Scheme
(a)
2013 AIS performance metrics
The performance measures that operated 
for the 2013 financial year are illustrated 
in the chart on the right.
   Group EPS - Actual business performance 
results were adjusted to exclude the effects 
of changes in upstream prices, material 
exchange rates and contracted LNG prices.
   Group ROACE - Actual post-tax business 
performance results (adjusted as for Group EPS 
above but excluding net finance income/costs 
on net borrowings/funds) are expressed as a 
percentage of average Group capital employed. 
Average Group capital employed was calculated 
by averaging the positions at the start and 
end of the year, excluding the impact of any 
material impairments. Group capital employed 
is the aggregate of total equity (excluding 
commodity financial instruments and 
Metric
% 
Weighting Performance outcome Threshold |  | Target | Stretch Commentary
Performance outcome as a  
percentage of maximum bonus 
Group EPS 38 Between threshold  
and target
Normalised EPS was slightly 
beneath the target of 113.5c. 
Reported Group EPS was 128.6c.
An assessment of 18.75% relative 
to a target outcome of 19% and 
a maximum outcome of 38%.
Group ROACE 12 Between target  
and stretch
Normalised ROACE was above 
the target of 8.0%. Reported Group 
ROACE was 10.2%.
An assessment of 9.94% relative 
to a target outcome of 6% and 
a maximum outcome of 12%.
Project 
performance
20 Between target  
and stretch
Good progress was made on 
projects in the year.
An assessment of 14.70% relative 
to a target outcome of 10% and 
a maximum outcome of 20%.
Group HSSE 15 Between target  
and stretch
HSSE performance was assessed 
as above target.
An assessment of 11.25% relative 
to a target outcome of 7.50% and 
a maximum outcome of 15%.
Overall 
assessment
Between target  
and stretch
An overall assessment of 54.64%
(a)
 
relative to a target outcome of 
42.50% and a maximum outcome 
of 85%.
(a) The 2013 business performance outcome was reduced to 43.71% following the Committee's review.
associated deferred tax) and net borrowings/
funds (in both cases adjusted to exclude 
the impact of changes in upstream prices 
and material exchange rates).
   Project performance - In-year performance 
on all Board-sanctioned projects, both 
operated and non-operated, was assessed 
against a range of indicators, including in-year 
cost and on schedule performance relative 
to plan.
   Group HSSE - Performance was assessed 
against a balanced scorecard of measures 
and targets across a broad range of leading 
and lagging indicators, including, for example, 
TRCF and actioning of audit findings.
   Individual performance - Performance 
was assessed against individual objectives 
for the year.
Executive Directors
Maximum  
bonus
% of salary
Target  
bonus
% of salary
Individual 
performance 
assessment
Actual bonus  
received  
% of target
Actual bonus  
received  
% of salary
Total 2013
bonus
(d)
 '000
% of bonus 
deferred
Chris Finlayson
(b)
200 100 above target 117 117 1 145 100
Simon Lowth
(c)
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Fabio Barbosa 150 60 target 93 56 52 100
Martin Houston 150 60 target 94 57 357 0
Den Jones 150 60 above target 120 71 155 0
(a) At the request of the Executive Directors, they were not considered for a bonus for 2012.
(b) Chris Finlayson waived any rights to a 2013 AIS award in the form of a cash award prior to the Committee making the award in the form of a deferred share award under the DBP .
(c) Simon Lowth was not entitled to a 2013 AIS award as he joined the Company after 1 October 2013.
(d) To determine an individual's AIS award, the resulting percentage from the AIS business performance outcome is added to the individual's performance outcome percentage and the result is applied 
to their bonus opportunity range, with 50% resulting in a target award and 100% resulting in a maximum award. The determination of the final AIS award is subject to the discretion of the Committee.
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 72
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED Performance Share Awards awarded in the financial year
In September 2013, the Executive Directors were granted PSAs under the LTIP. The awards will not normally vest until 4 September 2016. For 2013, 
the EPV of these PSAs was calculated as 44% of the market value of the underlying share.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' LTIp AWARDS UNDER THE BG GROUp LONG-TERM INCENTIVE pLAN 2008
Performance Share Awards vesting in the financial year
The PSAs granted in 2010 were subject to the same performance measure, targets and vesting levels as described below for the 2013 grants. 
The performance period for the 2010 PSAs ended on 31 August 2013. None of the shares awarded vested, and the awards lapsed in full 
on 7 September 2013. BG Group's TSR performance relative to the weighted index was measured by the independent TSR monitoring service 
of Alithos Limited and reviewed by Kepler Associates. This analysis indicated that BG Group had underperformed the index. The Committee 
considered the underlying financial performance of the Group and the individual performance of the Executive Directors, and concluded 
that none of the PSAs granted to Executive Directors in September 2010 would vest.
Also during 2013, the performance period ended for the final third of the PSA granted in September 2010 to Chris Finlayson in connection 
with his recruitment. BG Group had underperformed the index on average during the period, and as a result none of the shares vested 
and the award lapsed on 1 August 2013.
Performance Share Awards granted during 2013 that may vest in the future
Executive Directors Date of grant
End of 
performance 
period
Face value of 
shares awarded  
as a % of  
base salary
EPV of  
awards  
as a % of  
base salary
Share price
at grant
(a)
 
 
EPV of  
awards 
 '000
Face value  
(at date  
of grant)  
 '000
% of face  
value that  
would vest at
threshold
(b)
Chris Finlayson 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 600 264 12.45 2 574 5 850 25
Simon Lowth
(c)
11 Dec 2013 30 Nov 2016 454 200 12.27 1 448 3 291 25
Simon Lowth
(c)
11 Dec 2013 30 Nov 2016 700 308 12.27 2 234 5 078 25
Fabio Barbosa 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 454 200 12.45 1 408 3 201 25
Martin Houston 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 454 200 12.45 1 452 3 296 25
Den Jones 4 Sep 2013 31 Aug 2016 100 44 12.45 119 271 25
Den Jones
(d)
4 Sep 2013 n/a 45 39 12.45 105 122 100
(a) All the PSAs granted during the year that may vest in the future were granted in the form of nil-cost options based on the average share price over the five dealing days preceding the date of grant. 
Once vested, the options are exercisable until the seventh anniversary of the vesting date, but will be automatically exercised on an employee leaving the Company if not already exercised.
(b) Assuming continuing employment until the normal vesting date.
(c) PSAs subject to the performance conditions as described for the other awards but the level of the awards was calculated, consistent with the Company's policy for buy-out awards on recruitment, 
by reference to the EPV of the share awards foregone by Simon Lowth on leaving his former employer.
(d) PSA not subject to performance conditions. As the interim Chief Financial Officer, Den Jones was granted awards in September 2013 consistent with his usual role.
Performance Share Awards vesting during 2013
2013
Executive Directors % vesting
Number of 
shares 
Value  
 '000
Dividend 
equivalent
Chris Finlayson - - - -
Simon Lowth
(a)
100 54 686 675 -
Fabio Barbosa - - - -
Martin Houston - - - -
Den Jones
(b)
- - - -
(a) Simon Lowth received an award of vested shares, not subject to performance conditions, on account of 2013 bonus entitlements foregone on leaving his former employer.
(b) On 7 September 2013, 10 018 nil-cost options and 367 nil-cost options from dividend equivalents vested to Den Jones from a Group share award, which was not subject to performance conditions.  
The award was granted in 2010 when he was not an Executive Director. The share price at the date of vesting was  12.82.
73
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report Performance Share Awards 
Index Index
x107% per annum
TSR performance and vesting levels (%)
100
25
0
Vesting level % 
pAyMENTS TO f ORMER DIRECTORS
Sir Frank Chapman
Sir Frank Chapman ceased to be a Director of the 
Company on 31 December 2012 and retired from 
the Company on 30 June 2013. On 25 March 2013, 
24 010 restricted shares vested to Sir Frank 
Chapman under the DBP with a market value of 
 279 356. On 15 October 2013, Sir Frank Chapman 
exercised 6 006 options under CSOS at a gain 
of  42 785 and, on 17 October 2013, he exercised 
a further 375 403 options under the CSOS at a 
gain of  1 606 725. On 18 October 2013, Sir Frank 
Chapman exercised 1 128 573 options under the 
CSOS at a gain of  7 079 110 and 374 370 nil-cost 
options under the LTIP and the DBP at a gain 
of  4 545 968. On 24 December 2013, he exercised 
405 share options under the Sharesave Plan 
at a gain of  701. Following these transactions, 
Sir Frank Chapman had no remaining awards 
under the Company's plans.
Den Jones
Den Jones was appointed as Interim Chief Financial 
Officer on 15 February 2013, having been employed 
in the Group since 12 June 2000. On 2 December 
2013, Mr Jones ceased to be a Director of the 
Company upon Simon Lowth's appointment as 
Chief Financial Officer. Mr Jones continued to be 
employed by the Group until 17 January 2014, when 
his employment terminated by mutual agreement. 
An amount of  78 700 was paid to Mr Jones 
on 14 March 2014 in respect of the forfeiture of 
LTIP awards granted to Mr Jones in September 
2011 and September 2012 before he was 
appointed a Director of the Company and 
an award granted to him in September 2013, 
which is the pro-rated value that accrued 
over the part of the vesting periods during which 
Mr Jones served as a Director of the Company. 
These awards lapsed on Mr Jones's termination 
of employment and the payment is considered 
to be made in respect of his employment 
with the Group while he was a Director. 
Martin Houston
Martin Houston ceased to be a Director of the 
Company on 13 November 2013. Mr Houston 
continued to be employed by the Company 
until 28 February 2014 when he retired. 
The Committee reviewed and considered his 
outstanding share awards and, in accordance 
with the Company's policy on retirement, 
agreed that Mr Houston would be treated as 
a retiree for the purposes of relevant incentive 
plan rules. Accordingly, the unvested nil-cost 
options over 5 870 shares and 7 264 shares 
granted in 2011 and 2012 (respectively) under 
the DBP vested in full on 28 February 2014; 
the unvested PSAs over 202 303 shares 
and 247 158 shares granted in 2011 and 2012 
(respectively) under the LTIP lapsed in full 
on 28 February 2014; the unvested PSAs over 
264 742 shares granted in September 2013 
under the LTIP will vest on schedule in 2016, 
on a time apportioned basis and to the extent 
the performance measures are met. 50% of 
any after-tax vested shares will be subject to 
a further two-year holding period; 278 shares 
under the SIP vested and, together with a 
further 7 447 vested shares, became available 
for release in accordance with the rules of 
the plan on 28 February 2014; options from 
an original grant over 1 029 shares under the 
Sharesave Plan became exercisable within 
the six months following 28 February 2014, 
in accordance with the rules of the plan; and 
the vested nil-cost options over 35 690 shares 
granted in 2011 under the VBDP are exercisable 
on or before 17 March 2016.
 
During 2013, other than as disclosed above, 
the total of payments made to former Directors 
in respect of or as a result of their employment 
as a Director did not exceed  10 000 per 
individual, the de minimis level set by the 
Company for disclosure purposes.
For Performance Share Awards granted during the year and subject to performance conditions, TSR performance was the only performance 
measure, with performance measured over a three-year performance period commencing on the first day of the calendar month in which the 
award was made and with no retest provision. For awards granted in September 2013, the typical month of grant, the three-year performance 
period runs from 1 September 2013 to 31 August 2016. Subject to the review of the Committee, the level of PSAs vesting depends on the 
Company's TSR performance over this period relative to the TSR performance of a weighted index of a selection of oil and gas industry peers. 
The constituents of the index are reviewed annually to ensure the most comparable peer group companies are used. The constituents of 
the index for 2013 and for the three prior years are shown in the table below.
Company 2013 2012 2011 2010
Anadarko Petroleum Corp.
Apache Corporation
BP plc
Canadian Natural Resources Limited
Cenovus Energy Inc
Chevron Corporation
ConocoPhillips
Devon Energy Corporation
Encana Corporation
Eni S.p.A.
EOG Resources Inc
Exxon Mobil Corporation
Hess Corporation
Marathon Oil
Occidental Petroleum Corp.
Repsol S.A.
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Statoil ASA
Suncor Energy Inc
Talisman Energy Inc
Total S.A.
Tullow Oil plc
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
The performance targets and vesting levels of the Performance 
Share Awards are illustrated in the table above and the graph below.
BG Group's performance relative  
to index TSR performance Level of vesting (%)
Less than the TSR performance of the index 0%
Equal to the TSR performance of the index 25%
Exceeds the TSR performance of the index 
by 7% pa or more
(a)
100%
Exceeds the TSR performance of the index 
but by less than 7% pa
(a)
Linear sliding scale  
(between 25% and 100% vesting)
(a) The TSR performance calculation is multiplicative; that is, if the index grows from  
100% to 110% over three years, then BG Group is required to move from 100% to 134.75%  
(i.e. 110% x 107%
3
) to achieve maximum vesting.
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 74
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED Shareholdings at 31 December 2013 
against guidelines
(a)(b)
 (% of base salary)
Shareholding guideline
Actual holding
Average holding
300
69
Chris 
Finlayson*
50
102
Other senior   
employees**
100
200
GEC**
300
38
Den Jones*
300
1  595
Martin
Houston
200
80
Fabio 
Barbosa*
300
52
Simon 
Lowth*
  * In post for less 
than five years.
** Some in post for 
less than five years.
Executive Directors' interests in shares at 31 December 2013
(a)
The table below shows the Executive Directors' (and their connected persons) interests in 
ordinary shares, which include all shares held beneficially, together with those interests in shares 
that have vested, and that are no longer subject to deferral or performance conditions and that 
may be included as an interest in shares under BG Group's shareholding guidelines.
Executive Directors
Interests in ordinary shares
(b)
Value
(c)
 '000
Base salary
(d)
 '000
As at  
1 Jan 2013
As at
31 Dec 2013
(a)
Chris Finlayson 646 51 514 668 975
Simon Lowth - 28 913 375 725
Fabio Barbosa 25 808 25 808 295 705
Martin Houston 906 477 901 845 11 255 726
Den Jones 758 894 11 271
(a) Or at date of ceasing to be an Executive Director, if earlier.
(b) Interests in ordinary shares include ordinary shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group SIP (vested and unvested).
(c) The value of shareholdings is based on the closing price of a BG Group ordinary share on 31 December 2013, or at date of ceasing 
to be an Executive Director, if earlier.
(d) Base salary is annual salary as at 31 December 2013.
There have been no changes in the Executive Directors' interests in ordinary shares between 
31 December 2013 and 19 March 2014.
Summary of Executive Directors' overall interests in BG Group shares
Executive Directors Type
Lapsed  
during
2013
(c)
Exercised 
during
2013
(c)
Outright  
or vested  
as at
31 Dec 2013
(c)
Unvested  
as at
31 Dec 2013
(c)
Unvested  
and subject to 
performance 
conditions  
as at
31 Dec 2013
(c)
Total  
as at
31 Dec 2013
(c)
Chris Finlayson Shares n/a n/a 50 454 - - 50 454
Nil-cost options
(a)
267 996 95 904 - - 886 035 886 035
Sharesave options
(b)
- - - 1 756 - 1 756
Share Incentive Plan - - 782 278 - 1 060
Simon Lowth Shares n/a n/a 28 913 - - 28 913
Nil-cost options
(a)
- - - - 682 109 682 109
Sharesave options
(b)
- - - - - -
Share Incentive Plan - - - - - -
Fabio Barbosa Shares n/a n/a 25 229 - - 25 229
Nil-cost options
(a)
- - 45 059 2 290 653 056 700 405
Sharesave options
(b)
- - - 810 - 810
Share Incentive Plan - - 368 211 - 579
Martin Houston Shares n/a n/a 894 120 - - 894 120
Nil-cost options
(a)
236 328 - 37 025 13 134 714 203 764 362
Sharesave options
(b)
- 1 051 - 1 029 - 1 029
Share Incentive Plan - - 7 447 278 - 7 725
Den Jones Shares n/a n/a - - - -
Nil-cost options
(a)
- - 14 130 - 53 926 68 056
Sharesave options
(b)
- - - 810 - 810
Share Incentive Plan - - 894 - - 894
(a) The Executive Directors' interests in shares under awards made in the form of nil-cost options are stated before the operation 
of any applicable withholdings for tax and social security, which would typically arise when a vested award is exercised. The current 
maximum UK withholding is 47%. Awards in the form of nil-cost options are made to eligible UK employees under the LTIP , 
DBP and VBDP . Dividend equivalents are included for exercised and vested awards.
(b) Options granted under the BG Group plc Sharesave Plan 2008. The exercise price of these options was set at 80% of the market 
value of a share at the invitation date.
(c) Or at date of ceasing to be an Executive Director, if earlier.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
The Committee has adopted guidelines 
for Executive Directors, GEC members and 
certain other senior employees to encourage 
substantial long-term share ownership. These 
specify that Executive Directors should build 
up, and then retain, a holding of shares with 
a value equivalent to 300% of base salary. 
The required holding for other members of 
the GEC is 100% of base salary and for certain 
other senior employees is 50% of base salary. 
The guidelines require that, in relation to LTIP 
and DBP awards, vested shares (net of tax) 
should be retained by the individual until 
the required shareholding level is reached.
The chart below sets out the percentage 
of base salary held in shares by each of 
the Executive Directors as compared with 
the guidelines. The chart also shows for other 
members of the GEC and senior employees 
the average actual shareholding as a 
percentage of base salary.
(a) Under the shareholding guidelines, vested nil-cost 
option awards under the LTIP , VBDP and DBP are 
included. They are included net of the withholding 
for tax and social security which would have been 
made had they been exercised at the year end.  
For UK employees, the withholding applied is the  
current UK maximum of 47%.
(b) Or at date of ceasing to be an Executive Director,  
if earlier.
75
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report Total results - Total operating profit (post-tax)
Total spend on pay
Distributions to shareholders
4 000
5 000
3 000
2 000
1 000
0
4 617
2 450
(b)
2012
(a)
847
926
Relative importance of spend on pay
($m)
2013 2012 2013 2012
(a)
2013
1 393
1 105
Decreased -47%
Increased +9%
Decreased -21%
Historical TSR performance for the year ended 31 December
2013 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
200
180
140
120
160
100
BG Group return index FTSE 100 index Peer return index
DILUTION
In the event that all options and awards 
outstanding as at 31 December 2013 under 
BG Group's LTIP vest (such awards to be satisfied 
by the re-issue of treasury shares or by the 
issue of new shares), and all CSOS options 
(a legacy plan under which options are currently 
satisfied by the issue of new shares) are exercised, 
the resulting issue of new shares and re-issue 
of treasury shares would amount to 0.69% 
of the issued ordinary share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) at that date.
The exercise of options under BG Group's Sharesave 
Plan 2008 is satisfied by the issue of new shares.  
If the total number of options outstanding under 
these plans as at 31 December 2013 had been 
exercised on that date, the resultant issue of 
shares would have represented 0.04% of the total 
ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) 
then in issue.
Partnership and Flex Share awards made under 
the SIP during 2013 were satisfied by the re-issue 
of treasury shares. These awards represented 
0.01% of the issued ordinary share capital 
(excluding treasury shares) as at 31 December 2013.
The Company's intention is to continue to satisfy 
the future exercise of options and vesting 
of awards under the above share plans by the 
issue of new shares and re-issue of treasury shares 
as described above. As at 31 December 2013, 
the BG Group Employee Share Trust held 
3 327 603 shares and the BG Group New 
Employee Share Trust held no shares.
RELATIVE IMpORTANCE  
Of S pEND ON pAy
The chart below details BG Group's total results 
post-tax profits, distributions to shareholders 
and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all 
employees (including pension, variable pay and 
social security), for the last two financial years. 
The average number of employees in 2013 was 
5 536 (2012: 6 568).
HISTORICAL TSR pERf ORMANCE
The graph below shows the growth in value of a hypothetical  100 holding invested over 
five years in each of BG Group shares, the FTSE 100 index and the 2013 LTIP index of oil 
and gas industry peers.
The FTSE 100 was chosen as this is a recognised broad equity market index of which  
BG Group is a member. The calculations are in accordance with the Large & Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts & Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations).
CHANGE IN CHIEf EXECUTIVE'S REMUNERATION
The table below shows the Chief Executive's remuneration over the same five-year period 
as the TSR graph above.
year - Chief Executive
CEO total 
remuneration
 '000
Annual variable 
element award  
rates against 
maximum 
opportunity 
LTIP vesting  
rates against 
maximum 
opportunity
2013 - Chris Finlayson 2 518 59% 0%
2012 - Sir Frank Chapman 5 411 0%
(a)
44%
2011 - Sir Frank Chapman 7 912 69% 62%
2010 - Sir Frank Chapman 9 840 74% 87%
2009 - Sir Frank Chapman 10 318 70% 100%
(a) At the request of the Executive Directors, they received no bonuses for 2012.
The table below provides a comparison of the percentage year-on-year change from 
2012 to 2013 in elements of the Chief Executive's reward package relative to the Company's 
general UK employee population, which represents a sizeable portion of the Company's global 
employee population and the most relevant employee comparator group for the UK-based 
Chief Executive.
Base salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive
(a)
-21% 308% n/a
(b)
UK employees of the Group
(c)
10% 0% -10%
(a) Comparing figures for Chris Finlayson as Chief Executive for 2013 with those for Sir Frank Chapman as Chief Executive for 2012.
(b) At the request of the Executive Directors, they received no bonuses for 2012.
(c) For UK employees of the Group, no salary increases were applied in the April 2014 review.
(a) As restated.
(b) Business performance - post-tax profits for 2013 decreased  
by 0.1% to $4 374 million (2012: $4 379 million).
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 76
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Members* Appointed Attendance
John Hood
November 2010
(Chairman 
September 2011)
5/5
Vivienne Cox April 2012 4/5
Andrew Gould September 2011 5/5
Mark Seligman May 2013 3/3
Patrick Thomas September 2011 4/5
* Membership as at 31 December 2013. For full biographies 
see pages 48 and 49.
The above Directors were members of 
the Remuneration Committee when matters 
relating to the Directors' remuneration for 
the year were considered.
During the year, the Committee also invited 
the following individuals to attend on certain 
occasions to provide advice to the Committee 
to enable it to make informed decisions:
   Chief Executive;
   Executive Vice President, Human Resources; 
   General Manager Human Resources  
Function; and
   The Head of Reward.
The Company Secretary attended meetings 
as secretary to the Committee.
No individual was present when their 
own remuneration was being discussed.
The Committee also meets without management 
present and receives independent executive 
remuneration advice and information from 
Kepler Associates* and independent information 
from Towers Watson* and Alithos Limited*.
Independent advice
Kepler Associates, an external consultancy, 
was formally re-appointed as its adviser 
by the Committee in 2012, following a 
competitive selection process. During 2013, 
Kepler Associates provided the Committee 
with advice on market trends, incentive 
schemes and on other remuneration matters. 
Kepler Associates do not provide any other 
services to the Company, and the Committee 
is satisfied that the advice received was 
objective and independent. The fees paid 
to Kepler Associates for 2013, which were 
charged on the basis of time incurred, 
and expenses, were  89 400.
During the year, the Committee also received 
market information from Towers Watson. 
Towers Watson also provided general 
compensation and benefits information, 
general consultancy services to the Company 
and actuarial advice to the Trustees of the 
BG Pension Scheme. Towers Watson was 
selected by the Company and the Committee 
is satisfied that the market information 
received was objective and independent. 
The fees paid to Towers Watson for 2013 
for information for the Committee, which 
were charged on the basis of time incurred 
were  24 598.
During the year, Alithos Limited, an 
independent TSR monitoring service, 
provided reports on the Company's TSR 
performance relative to the relevant indices. 
Alithos was selected by the Company 
and the Committee is satisfied that the 
information provided is independent and 
objective. The fees paid to Alithos for 
2013 for the reports for the Committee, 
which were charged on the basis of a fixed 
fee for the requested reports, were  27 500.
The Directors' Remuneration Policy set out 
in the Policy section of this report will apply 
from conclusion of the 2014 AGM, subject to 
shareholder approval, and will be implemented 
on the basis set out in that section.
At its December 2013 meeting, the Remuneration 
Committee considered the design of the AIS  
for 2014. The Committee determined that 
the AIS continues to incentivise the achievement 
of the Company's strategic and business 
priorities appropriately and, accordingly, 
the Committee retained the same performance 
measures and weightings for the 2014 AIS, 
as described above for the 2013 AIS. Stretching 
AIS performance targets were determined 
by reference to the Board-approved budget 
for 2014. The Committee expects to follow 
the same two-stage review process 
as in prior years, to review the performance 
outcomes for each metric and the overall outcome 
in the context of the underlying performance 
and prospects of the business. The Committee 
will review the measures and targets for, 
and the calculation of, any LTIP awards in 
advance of the grant of those awards, which 
STATEMENT Of IM pLEMENTATION Of THE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION pOLICy IN THE f OLLOWING f INANCIAL yEAR
is usually during September. Additional detail 
on any LTIP awards and other remuneration 
matters relating to 2014 will be provided 
in the disclosures that will form part of the 
2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
At its February 2014 meeting, the Committee 
reviewed the Executive Directors' base salaries 
and, after considering several factors including 
the range of salary increases applying across 
the Group, determined that there would be 
no increases for 2014. The Executive Directors' 
base salaries are next due to be reviewed in 
March 2015.
On appointment, the Chief Financial Officer 
was granted Performance Share Awards over 
682 109 shares in the form of nil-cost options 
to buy out the share awards foregone on 
leaving his former employer. The original 
buy-out awards were granted under the LTIP 
with the proportion of the award that may 
vest being linked to the Company's relative 
TSR over 3 years and 50% of any vested shares 
under the award will be subject to a further 
two-year holding period. The EPV of the original 
buy-out awards was calculated to be no more 
than the EPV of the share awards foregone on 
leaving his former employer. In February 2014, 
the Committee reviewed the status of the 
awards in light of the challenges announced 
to the market on 27 January 2014 and the 
market's reaction. One of the Committee's 
priorities is to ensure stability in the financial 
leadership of the Company to help ensure 
the interests of shareholders are foremost. 
Following consultation with the Company's 
major shareholders in March 2014, and 
to honour the agreed buy-out value, the 
Chief Financial Officer was granted a further 
Performance Share Award (over 398 701 shares) 
under the LTIP (in the form of a nil-cost option), 
which will vest and become exercisable on the 
same date as the original buy-out awards 
subject to continued employment but without 
Company performance conditions. The 
proportion of shares that vest under the new 
award will be reduced by the proportion of 
shares that vest under the original buy-out 
awards. Of any shares that vest under the 
award, 50% will also be subject to a two-year 
holding period.
* Kepler Associates, Towers Watson and Alithos have given, and not withdrawn, their consent to the issue of this document  
with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and context in which they appear.
77
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Chairman's remuneration was reviewed during 2013 and the other Non-Executive Directors' fees were last reviewed in 2012. The next regular 
biennial review of Non-Executive Directors' fees and the regular annual review of the Chairman's fee will take place during 2014. The current 
Non-Executive Directors' fees, effective since 1 June 2012 following the last change, and Chairman's annual fee, effective since 16 May 2012 
following the last change, are summarised below.
Chairman's fee  725 000 
Basic fee  82 000
Committee membership fee (excluding Nominations Committee)  8 000
Chairman - Audit Committee  28 000
Chairman - Remuneration Committee  25 000
Chairman - Sustainability Committee  20 000
Senior Independent Director  30 000
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' TOTAL REMUNERATION
Individual remuneration for the year to 31 December
Salary/fees   Taxable benefits   Total  
Non-Executive Directors 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Andrew Gould
(a)
 (Chairman) 725 000 488 663 2 571 1 548 727 571 490 211
Peter Backhouse 90 000 86 875 - - 90 000 86 875
Vivienne Cox 98 000 82 858 - - 98 000 82 858
Lim Haw-Kuang
(b)
73 361 - - - 73 361 -
Baroness Hogg
(c)
120 000 114 778 - - 120 000 114 778
Dr John Hood
(d)
123 000 116 542 - - 123 000 116 542
Caio Koch-Weser 98 000 92 250 - - 98 000 92 250
Sir David Manning 102 000 100 125 - - 102 000 100 125
Mark Seligman 115 032 106 875 - - 115 032 106 875
Patrick Thomas 98 000 93 625 - - 98 000 93 625
Philippe Varin
(e)
11 375 93 625 - - 11 375 93 625
(a) Taxable benefits are chauffeur services.
(b) Lim Haw-Kuang was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 4 March 2013.
(c) Senior Independent Director until 31 December 2013.
(d) Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2014.
(e) Philippe Varin retired as a Non-Executive Director on 11 February 2013.
Non-Executive Directors' interests in ordinary shares
The Non-Executive Directors' interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the start and at the end of the financial year, or at date of retirement 
if earlier, were as follows:
Interests in ordinary shares
As at 
1 Jan 2013
(a)
As at  
31 Dec 2013
Andrew Gould 30 000 65 000
Peter Backhouse 27 500 27 500
Vivienne Cox - 1 507
Lim Haw-Kuang - 2 419
Baroness Hogg 14 248 16 253
Dr John Hood 8 795 8 795
Caio Koch-Weser 3 600 3 600
Sir David Manning 2 276 2 731
Mark Seligman 14 965 17 789
Patrick Thomas - 2 677
Philippe Varin
(a)
42 500 42 500
(a) Philippe Varin retired as a Non-Executive Director on 11 February 2013.
Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2014. On 11 February 2014 Pam Daley purchased 14 200 
BG Group plc shares, which comprise her interests in the ordinary shares of the Company as at the date of this report. Martin Ferguson had 
no interests in ordinary shares of the Company as at the date of this report. On 17 March 2014, Vivienne Cox, Baroness Hogg, Sir David Manning, 
Mark Seligman and Patrick Thomas purchased 565, 425, 126, 804 and 1 130 BG Group plc ordinary shares respectively. As a result, their respective 
interests in the ordinary share capital of BG Group plc are 2 072, 16 678, 2 857, 18 593 and 3 807.
There have been no other changes in the Non-Executive Directors' interests in ordinary shares between 31 December 2013 and 19 March 2014.
Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 78
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED Shareholder voting
BG Group remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. Where there are substantial 
votes against resolutions in relation to Directors' remuneration, the Group seeks to understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail 
here any actions in response to it.
The table below sets out actual voting in respect of our previous remuneration report: 
Number of votes For Against Abstain
(a)
2012 Directors' Remuneration report 
(2013 AGM) 
2 123m
(94%)
124m
(6%)
27m
(a) A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes  For' or  Against' a resolution.
EXTERNAL AppOINTMENTS
To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, they are able to accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another 
company provided that permission is sought from the Board in advance. Any external appointment must not conflict with the Director's duties 
and commitments to BG Group. Any fees from such appointments may be retained by the individual Executive Director.
The Chief Executive, Chris Finlayson, served as a non-executive director of Lloyds Register Group Limited from June 2013 and received fees 
of  25 083 during 2013 in connection with this appointment.
The Chief Financial Officer, Simon Lowth, served as a non-executive director of Standard Chartered plc throughout 2013 and received annual 
fees of  130 000 during 2013 in connection with this appointment.
No other non-executive director appointments are currently held by the Executive Directors.
AUDIT NOTES
In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations, the following sections of the report have been audited: 
Executive Directors' total remuneration; scheme interests awarded during the year; payments to former Directors; Executive Directors' interests 
in shares; Non-Executive Directors' remuneration; Non-Executive Directors' interests in ordinary shares; and the table and notes in the 
Pensions section of the report. The remaining sections are not subject to audit.
By order of the Board
Dr John hooD
Chairman of the  
r emuneration Committee 19 March 2014
Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive,  
Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT
Registered in England & Wales No. 3690065
79
Corporate governan Ce BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Remuneration report