 1.3 CEO's Report
The 2007 financial year continued the positive trend in global
economic growth that has provided the backdrop for the
performance of BHP Billiton in the past several years. This trend,
combined with the emergence of the developing economies, 
has allowed the Company to generate another outstanding set 
of operating results and record financial performance. 
Global demand for our products has enabled us to benefit from
our high-quality asset base and from our decisions over the past
seven years to reinvest in our business through organic projects
and acquisitions. As a result, we have set annual production
records in eight commodities. FY2008 is expected to be another
year of strong volume growth with the continued ramp-up of a
number of projects and the commencement of production from
new projects across our businesses. 
Global supply of commodities, which are essential for economic
and social development, continues to lag growth in demand and
we expect this situation to continue. This means commodity prices,
while volatile, are expected to exceed long-term averages and,
together with record volumes, should continue to contribute to 
the outstanding financial success of BHP Billiton.
As a leader in the global resources industry, we remain well-placed
to respond to continuing demand growth and have demonstrated
during the year our capacity to bring on-line major new sources of
supply, such as the new Spence copper operation in northern Chile,
and commit to further major expansions of operations such as 
at our iron ore business in Western Australia. When we see value
in a potential acquisition we are able to act, as we did during the
financial year when we purchased an interest in the Genghis Khan
oil and gas development in the Gulf of Mexico, adding to our oil
and gas production capacity from this new financial year, and
announced a one-third interest in an alumina project in Guinea,
West Africa.
We continue to identify and evaluate numerous other project
options that can be brought on-line as global demand grows in the
years ahead. Our track record in delivering 33 world-class projects
across the globe over the past six years is a testament to the
capabilities of our people, and we remain committed to developing
projects in line with the approved budgets and schedules while
acknowledging the current cost and labour pressures. After five
years of continual growth, expansion and development, we are still
able to say we have an inventory of future project options
unparalleled in the global resources industry. 
We also remain well-placed to manage the challenges created by
increasing demand for commodities and are determined to retain
our competitive position in meeting demand. Those challenges
include shortages of skilled employees and essential equipment,
escalating costs of the labour and raw materials required to
construct projects and maintain operations, the intense
competition for the rights to develop new resources and the
difficulties associated with accessing resources in increasingly
remote and sometimes challenging parts of the world. 
In meeting these challenges we have been able to draw on the
diversity and breadth of our people and our business, combined
with robust and evolving systems and processes that ensure we
are sharing our skills and experiences across all of our assets and
project teams.
I am very proud to be part of a truly global organisation
characterised by a senior management team drawn from many
parts of the world. As some of the most experienced people in 
the global resources industry, they lead an organisation drawn
from many countries. This diversity and depth of talent, combined
with our geographic spread of assets and diversity of commodities
and markets gives us a significant competitive advantage through
the economic cycle.
Sustainability
The continuing success and sustainability of our Company is
heavily dependent on securing and maintaining our  licence to
operate', wherever we do business around the globe. We work
actively on securing and maintaining our licence to operate
through the ethical conduct of all our people, our determination 
to keep our people healthy and safe, our efforts to improve the
quality of life of the communities in which we operate and the
protection of the environment.
However, we are facing many challenges. More than 1 0 years ago
BHP Billiton began to set targets to manage and control the gas
emissions from and energy usage by our operations. Over the past
year the call for precautionary action to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions has become loud and universal. This year we again
reviewed and reassessed our commitment to tackling climate
change. The result is an updated policy that not only sets new
aggressive targets for emissions and energy reduction and
commits increased funds to finding technological solutions 
but promises to work in partnership with various organisations 
to better understand and manage our impacts, and the impact 
of our products, on climate change.
The health and safety of our people and communities, stewardship
of the products we sell and our work in developing communities
are all areas that continue to challenge us, but it is critical we 
get these right in order to preserve and enhance our licence to
operate. The ability to meet the strong demand for our
commodities requires that we have a positive impact on those 
we encounter through our business activities.
Companies that develop the skills, resources and relationships 
to meet these challenges will thrive and prosper . Our long-term
success is contingent on our ability to manage our business in 
a sustainable fashion. But to find truly effective and sustainable
solutions will require others to engage in the challenge. We can
not do it alone; it is a shared responsibility that we have with 
our host nations, local communities, our people, our partners 
and our industry.
Farewell
I have had the enormous privilege of leading the world's largest
diversified resources company for the past five years. BHP Billiton
plays a central role in providing the raw materials essential to
support economic and social development. The aspirations of
billions of people for a better quality of life depends on access to
raw materials at a reasonable cost. T o be part of an organisation
that realises its critical role in making a difference to billions 
of people around the world has truly been a great honour .
No organisation is successful without talented and dedicated
people. At BHP Billiton I have been fortunate to have had the
opportunity to work with an outstanding group of people from 
all over the world. I would like to thank all our employees and
contractors for their commitment and efforts and for their
contribution to the success of BHP Billiton. I will leave knowing
that the Company is well positioned for the years ahead and will
continue to prosper and succeed through its next phase of growth.
My successor, Marius Kloppers, has been a valuable contributor to
the organisation in many roles and will be an outstanding Chief
Executive Officer . I wish Marius, the executive team and all the
members of the BHP Billiton family all the best for the years ahead.
Chip Goodyear
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 7
5260 BHPB AReport_Pt1  11/9/07  6:54 PM  Page 7