 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008  -  7
1.3 Chief Executive Officer's Report
BHP Billiton shareholders can look back on the 2008 financial 
year with a real sense of pride in what we've achieved and 
in the performance of our people.
Since my appointment as CEO in October 2007 , we have continued 
to follow our strategy to own and operate world-class assets 
across a diverse range of mineral, metal and energy products, 
focused on the upstream end of the production process. From
the combination of our strategy, the efforts of our people and 
a favourable commodity price environment, we have been able 
to deliver record financial performance.
While we can report financial success, I regret to report we have 
not performed well on safety. In FY2008, 11 of our employees 
died at work. Many more lives will have been impacted, some 
forever, by these tragic and avoidable events. We have reflected 
deeply on what more we must do to reach our goal of Zero Harm. 
In FY2009, we are making even greater efforts to improve our 
safety performance.
Despite turbulent global economic conditions, we continue to 
see enormous opportunity for the Company. While continuing 
to further our existing strategy, we have refined our operational 
focus in order to give maximum clarity of responsibility to 
our operating units. We are also embracing the concept of 
 simplicity' even more deeply, ensuring that we focus our effort 
and resources on key opportunities and value drivers. For our 
shareholders, this means the Company is easier to understand, 
more focused and more valuable.
In the past year, our strategy has produced stronger annual 
production in 13 of our commodities, with record production 
in seven of those. This was achieved in an environment of 
industry-wide supply disruptions and input cost pressures.
Our strong track record of project delivery also continued 
through the year, enabling, for example, our Western 
Australia Iron Ore business to post an eighth consecutive 
annual production record. A record performance in our 
Petroleum business reflected the successful commissioning of 
three new major projects. We expect volume growth from our 
Petroleum business to continue at around 10 per cent a year, a 
significant value creator at a time of historically high oil prices.
Ten major projects, spanning five commodities, started 
production during the year. The Board approved a further 
seven for development, bringing our total number of projects
in either execution or feasibility to 28, representing an 
expected capital investment of US$24.8 billion. We also have 
other medium-term growth options with expected capital 
commitments in excess of US$90 billion, spanning our 
existing commodity range and beyond.
Our results were outstanding in the context of a challenging 
supply environment which was characterised by unexpected 
disruptions, rising input prices, skills shortages and the 
further devaluation of the US dollar. Our strong performance 
demonstrates the power of our uniquely diversified and 
high-margin portfolio across the energy, steelmaking 
and non-ferrous product suites.
Given this future growth pipeline, you may question why we 
are pursuing a combination with Rio Tinto. Within our industry, 
the two companies are uniquely complementary, and, as such, 
we believe a combined company would unlock synergies and 
provide greater value than the two companies can provide 
separately. BHP Billiton does not need Rio Tinto to have a great 
future, but we believe the two companies combined will be 
better placed to meet the world's future need for our products.
We have a critical role in providing the raw materials for 
growth that so many economies need; economies going 
through industrialisation and urbanisation on a scale 
and intensity not experienced before. We are resourcing 
the future.
I have been fortunate to take the helm of a well-run business, 
focused on its customers' needs, with a great team responding 
well to the opportunities for our sector. In a year's time, 
I hope to report we have been able to improve our Company 
even further.
Marius Kloppers
Chief Executive Officer
5463 BHPB AR_Book.indb   7 5463 BHPB AR_Book.indb   7 9/12/08   9:54:31 AM 9/12/08   9:54:31 AM