 6  -  BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2009
1 Key information continued
1.2 Chairman's Review
By any measure, this has been an extraordinary year.
The global financial crisis has created the worst business 
environment the world has faced in more than 60 years. World 
economic activity contracted dramatically and commodity prices 
fell sharply. Accompanying this, volatility has been high and should 
remain for the immediate future. While the global economy is 
showing signs of stabilising, the large developed economies are 
not expected to show real growth until at least the end of 2010.
BHP Billiton's strategy has served us well during these volatile 
times. Since the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, we have 
focused on a few key fundamentals. These include owning and 
operating large, low-cost, long-life tier one assets; a commitment 
to a solid  A' credit rating; a deep inventory of growth projects; 
and working hard to be leaders in safety, environmental 
management and community engagement.
While low commodity prices and less demand for our products 
led to a fall in profits, our resolute focus on our long-term strategy 
delivered record operating cash flow of almost US$19 billion, profit 
from operations, excluding exceptional items, of US$18.2 billion, 
and margins on this profit of more than 40 per cent. Dividends 
were increased by 17.1 per cent to 82 US cents per share. We have 
enviable balance sheet strength. At 30 June 2009, gearing was 
12.1 per cent and we have an  A' credit rating with significant 
funding capacity.
Despite producing strong operating and financial performance 
during a challenging year, our safety performance was simply 
unacceptable. This year, we had seven fatalities. The death of a 
family member at work has a devastating and long-lasting impact 
not only on the immediate family, but also on a wide community 
of relatives, friends and work colleagues. The Board has reinforced 
its emphasis on management creating a workplace free of injury.
In environmental management, the immediate issue facing 
the world is climate change. BHP Billiton shares the view that 
mainstream science is correct in drawing attention to the high risks 
associated with unmitigated climate change. However, we also 
believe that the problem is solvable and strongly support a global 
regime that is endorsed by both developed and major developing 
countries and provides the clarity and stability necessary to 
allow investment in carbon abatement activities to occur. We are 
determined to play our part and see business leadership as part 
of our role in achieving low carbon growth. To this end, we support 
key initiatives like the establishment of binding commitments 
for all developed and major developing countries.
We remain committed to prudently investing for the future. 
This is reflected in the agreement we signed with Rio Tinto
in June this year to create an iron ore production joint venture 
in Western Australia. This joint venture represents a significant, 
strategic investment for the Group that provides us with the 
opportunity to capture significant synergies that can only come 
through this unique partnership. The agreement is non-binding 
and pre-conditions for its formation include regulatory, relevant 
governmental and shareholder approvals from both Rio Tinto 
and BHP Billiton shareholders.
Our ability to fund opportunities like these and the Group's 
consistent, solid financial performance during this period 
is testament to the ability of Marius Kloppers and his team. 
Over the past five years, we have delivered Total Shareholder 
Returns
 (1)
 of 220 per cent, outperforming the FTSE 100, ASX 100 
and our peers. There are very few companies in any sector with 
such solid financial and operating strength.
Clearly, as a Board, we have a responsibility to shareholders 
to ensure we attract, develop and retain the talented people 
we need to run our business. The way we reward and recognise 
those people is an important part of how we do this. Our reward 
and recognition arrangements are set out in the Remuneration 
Report. From your Board's point of view, the critical issue is that 
shareholders have the ability to fully understand remuneration 
arrangements, to monitor them and to express their opinion on 
their value. Aligning executive remuneration with shareholder 
value creation is fundamental.
Our program of Board renewal continued this year. David Jenkins, 
after nine years on the Board, will retire after the Annual General 
Meetings. David has made an outstanding contribution to the 
work of the Board; and on your behalf, I would like to thank 
David and wish him well for the future.
We also appointed Wayne Murdy as a non-executive Director. 
Wayne's experience will be invaluable to your Board given his 
background as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Newmont 
Mining Corporation and 30 years' experience in the mining and 
petroleum industries.
We remain committed to achieving the highest level of governance 
and continue to believe that there is a fundamental link between 
high-quality governance and the creation of shareholder value. 
We also recognise that governance is not just a matter for the 
Board, but that a good governance culture must be fostered 
throughout the Group.
Undoubtedly, the past year has been difficult. The economic 
landscape has changed and organisations have had to adjust to 
meet these unprecedented economic challenges. In many sectors 
of the economy we have witnessed quite dramatic falls in demand, 
and there have been large cutbacks in production across the 
commodities sector. We were not immune from this. We reduced 
production levels from many of our operations in response to the 
lower global commodities demand and in some instances also 
made difficult decisions to indefinitely suspend or close operations.
Looking ahead, economies around the world are responding 
to government-driven economic stimulus packages, the impact 
of which is difficult to measure; and consequently, there remains 
a level of uncertainty about the rate of economic growth over 
the short term. Having said that, there is evidence in the US, UK, 
Europe and Australia of increasing stability in financial systems 
and economies.
China, which has been the major source of demand for 
commodities in 2009, is showing early signs of improvement, 
providing strong support for short-term economic growth.
Over the longer term, we believe that emerging economies such 
as China and India will contribute the majority of world economic 
growth as they continue to industrialise, which will see demand 
for commodities continue to grow.
BHP Billiton maintains its unique position in the resources 
industry. We are able to generate above average returns in this 
part of the cycle, continue to invest in growth and are well-placed 
to take advantage of any upturn.
Finally, this will be my last report to you as Chairman.
Jac Nasser will succeed me when I retire. It is your Directors' 
view that the choice of the Chairman is the responsibility of the 
Board. This is why, over the past 18 months, the Board itself has 
conducted the succession process for the new Chairman and when 
the Board met, John Buchanan, the Senior Independent Director 
for BHP Billiton Plc, chaired the meetings. Jac has outstanding skills 
and experience and will be an excellent Chairman. To ensure an 
orderly transition, the Board has asked me to stand for re-election 
at the upcoming Annual General Meetings, although I will not 
serve a full term and expect to retire from the Board in early 2010.
I want to acknowledge and sincerely thank you, our shareholders, 
for your support over the 13 years I have been on the BHP Billiton 
Board and my 10 years as Chairman. It has always been my 
underpinning principle to respect shareholders as the owners 
of the Company, as it is to you that I am accountable for the 
governance and performance of BHP Billiton. It has been an 
outstanding highlight in my life and an extraordinary privilege 
to serve you as Chairman.
Don Argus
Chairman
(1)  
Weighted three month average US$ Total Shareholder Returns (TSR) of 
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc. TSR reflects the changes in share 
price plus dividends over the period.