 1.5. 1 Risk factors continued
development on time and budget or successfully respond to new 
development opportunities. The lack of short- and long-term suitable 
accommodation in regional centres and townships adjacent to 
development projects and community reactions to development  
and potential workforce fly in, fly out arrangements may impact 
costs and the ability to optimise construction and operating 
workforces. Skills shortages in engineering, technical service, 
construction and maintenance may adversely impact the cost  
and schedule of current development projects, the cost and 
efficiency of existing operations and our ability to execute  
on development opportunities.
Increased costs and schedule delays may adversely affect  
our development projects
Although we devote significant time and resources to our project 
planning, approval and review process, and have established a 
number of project hubs to provide continuity to capital programs, 
we may underestimate the cost or time required to complete 
a project. In addition, we may fail to manage projects as effectively  
as we anticipate and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
Any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule 
delays at our development projects, adversely affecting our 
development projects and impacting anticipated financial returns.
Financial risks
If our liquidity and cash flow deteriorate significantly it could 
adversely affect our ability to fund our major capital programs
We seek to maintain a solid  A' credit rating as part of our strategy; 
however , fluctuations in commodity prices and the ongoing global 
economic volatility, and European sovereign debt crises, may 
continue to adversely impact our future cash flows and ability  
to access capital from financial markets at acceptable pricing. 
Despite our portfolio risk management strategies and monitoring  
of cash flow volatility, if our key financial ratios and credit rating 
were not maintained, our liquidity and cash reserves, interest rate 
costs on borrowed debt, future access to financial capital markets 
and the ability to fund current and future major capital programs 
could be adversely affected.
We may not recover our investments in mining and oil  
and gas projects
Our strategy is to maintain an asset portfolio diversified  
by commodity, geography and market. Despite the benefits  
arising from this diversification, one or more of our assets may  
be impacted by changed market or industry structures, commodity 
prices, technical operating difficulties, inability to recover our 
mineral, oil or gas reserves and increased operating cost levels. 
These may cause us to fail to recover all or a portion of our 
investment in mining and oil and gas projects and may require 
financial write-downs adversely impacting our financial results.
The commercial counterparties we transact with may not  
meet their obligations which may negatively impact our results
We contract with a large number of commercial and financial 
counterparties, including customers, suppliers and financial 
institutions. The ongoing global economic volatility and European 
sovereign debt crises have placed strains on global financial 
markets, reduced liquidity and adversely affected business 
conditions generally. We maintain a  one book' approach with 
commercial counterparties to ensure that all credit exposures  
are quantified. Our existing counterparty credit controls may not 
prevent a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer  
or financial counterparty. In addition, customers, suppliers, 
contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against 
existing contracts and obligations. Non-supply of key inputs, such  
as tyres, mining and mobile equipment and other key consumables, 
may unfavourably impact costs and production at our operations. 
These factors could negatively affect our financial condition and 
results of operations.
Operational risks
Operating cost pressures, reduced productivity and labour 
shortages could negatively impact our operating margins  
and expansion plans
Increasing cost pressures and shortages in skilled personnel, 
contractors, materials and supplies that are required as critical 
inputs to our existing operations and planned developments have 
occurred and may continue to occur across the resources industry. 
As the prices for our products are determined by the global 
commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally  
have the ability to offset these operating cost increases through 
corresponding price increases, which can adversely affect our 
operating margins. Notwithstanding our efforts to reduce costs  
and a number of key cost inputs being commodity price-linked,  
the inability to reduce costs and a timing lag may adversely impact 
our operating margins for an extended period.
Our Australian-based operations may continue to be affected  
by the Australian Fair Work Act 2009 as labour agreements expire 
and businesses are required to negotiate labour agreements with 
unions. In some instances labour unions are pursuing claims in the 
bargaining process about union access and involvement in some 
areas of operational decision-making. These claims may adversely 
affect workplace flexibility, productivity and costs. Industrial action 
in pursuit of claims associated with the bargaining process  
has occurred in some businesses, in particular our BHP Billiton 
Mitsubishi Alliance coal operation in Queensland, Australia,  
and is likely to continue to occur as unions press for new claims  
as part of the negotiation process.
A number of our operations, such as aluminium and copper, are 
energy or water intensive and, as a result, the Group's costs and 
earnings could be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply 
interruptions. These could include the unavailability of energy,  
fuel or water due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations  
in climate, significant increases in costs, inadequate infrastructure 
capacity, interruptions in supply due to equipment failure or  
other causes and the inability to extend supply contracts on 
economical terms.
These factors could lead to increased operating costs at existing 
operations and could negatively impact our operating margins  
and expansion plans.
Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may 
adversely impact our operations
We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in many 
geographic locations both onshore and offshore. Our operational 
processes may be subject to operational accidents such as port  
and shipping incidents, underground mine and processing plant  
fire and explosion, open-cut pit wall failures, loss of power supply, 
railroad incidents, loss of well control, environmental pollution  
and mechanical critical equipment failures. Our key port facilities  
are located at Port Hedland and Hay Point in Australia. We have  
1 3 underground mines, including seven underground coal mines.  
Our operations may also be subject to unexpected natural 
catastrophes such as earthquakes, flood, hurricanes and tsunamis. 
Our Western Australia Iron Ore, Queensland coal and Gulf of Mexico 
oil and gas operations are located in areas subject to cyclones or 
hurricanes. Our Chilean copper operations are located in a known 
earthquake and tsunami zone. Based on our claims, insurance 
premiums and loss experience, our risk management approach is 
not to purchase insurance for property damage, business interruption 
and construction related risk exposures. Existing business continuity 
plans may not provide protection for all of the costs that arise from 
such events. The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in 
production, increased costs and loss of facilities more than offsetting 
premiums saved, which would adversely affect our financial results 
and prospects. Third party claims arising from these events may 
exceed the limit of liability insurance policies we have in place.
1 
Key information
2 
Information on the Company
3 Operating and financial  
review and prospects
4 Board of Directors and  
Group Management Committee
5 
Corporate Governance Statement
6 
Remuneration Report
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 201 2 | 9