 1 Key information
1. 1. 1 Our Charter
Our BHP Billiton Charter is the single most important means by 
which we communicate who we are, what we do and what we stand 
for . It is through Our Charter we articulate our purpose, our strategy, 
the values we uphold and how we measure success. Our Charter is 
the foundation for our decision-making, actions and behaviours.
Our Charter makes it clear that as we strive for success we must 
remain forthright in the things we value: Sustainability, Integrity, 
Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability. By working  
in a way that is consistent with Our Charter, we will continue to 
build on our success both today and for the long term.
1. 1.2 Our Operating Model
In FY201 3, following the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie  
as Chief Executive Officer, organisational changes were made  
to consolidate our previous Customer Sector Groups into  
five Businesses.
Our Operating Model sets out the relationship between the 
Businesses, Group Functions and Marketing and defines how we 
work, how we are organised and how we measure performance. 
Our Businesses
Our assets, operations and interests are separated into five business 
units. These Businesses are: Petroleum and Potash; Copper; Iron Ore; 
Coal; and Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel. The Operating Model 
has been designed to ensure that decision-making remains as close 
to the Businesses as possible.
Group Functions
Our Group Functions support the Businesses and operate under  
a defined set of accountabilities authorised by the Group 
Management Committee (GMC). Our Group Functions are  
primarily located in Melbourne, London and Singapore.
Marketing
Marketing is responsible for selling our products and for the 
purchase of all major raw materials; owning the supply chain  
from assets to markets and raw materials from suppliers to assets; 
achieving market clearing prices for the Group's products and 
managing price risk; and developing a single Company view  
of the markets.
The core principles of the Operating Model include mandatory 
performance requirements; common organisational design;  
common systems and processes; and common planning  
and reporting. 
The Operating Model is designed to deliver a simple and scalable 
organisation to achieve a sustainable improvement in productivity 
by providing performance transparency, eliminating duplication  
of effort and enabling the more rapid identification and  
deployment of best practice.
1. 1 Our Company
We are BHP Billiton, a leading global resources company . 
We are among the world' s top producers of major commodities, including iron ore, metallurgical  
and energy coal, conventional and unconventional oil and gas, copper , aluminium, manganese, 
uranium, nickel and silver .
As at 30 June 201 3, we had a market capitalisation of approximately US$1 47. 1 billion. For FY201 3,  
we reported net operating cash flow of US$1 8.3 billion, revenue of US$66.0 billion and profit 
attributable to shareholders of US$1 0.9 billion. Throughout FY201 3, our workforce comprised  
of approximately 1 28,800 employees and contractors working at 1 41 locations in 26 countries.
2 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 201 3