 1. 1.3 Our Businesses
Petroleum and Potash
Our Petroleum and Potash Business, headquartered in Houston, United States,  
comprises conventional and unconventional oil and gas operations located in six countries 
throughout the world and a potash development project with a regional Potash Head 
Office in Saskatoon, Canada. Our portfolio of operations includes: Onshore US - four 
shale fields operated onshore in the United States (Eagle Ford, Permian, Haynesville  
and Fayetteville); Gulf of Mexico - two operated fields (Neptune and Shenzi) and three 
non-operated fields (Atlantis, Mad Dog and Genesis); Bass Strait - interests in offshore 
projects and processing in Bass Strait, off the southeastern coast of Australia; and  
North West Shelf - interest in an offshore project and processing in Western Australia. 
Our portfolio also includes interests in other projects in Australia and in the United 
Kingdom, Algeria, Trinidad and T obago, and Pakistan.
Copper
Our Copper Business, headquartered in Santiago, Chile, is one of the world's premier 
producers of copper, silver, lead and uranium, and a leading producer of zinc. We market 
five primary products: copper concentrate, copper cathodes, uranium oxide, lead and 
zinc concentrates. Our portfolio of mining operations includes: Escondida - the world's 
largest producer of copper, located in Chile; Cannington - one of the world's largest 
producers of silver located in Queensland, Australia; Olympic Dam - a major producer  
of copper and uranium located in South Australia; Pampa Norte - two copper mines, 
located in Chile; and Antamina - a joint venture interest in a copper and zinc mine, 
located in Peru.
Iron Ore
Our Iron Ore Business, headquartered in Perth, Australia, is one of the world's leading 
iron ore producers. We sell lump and fines product from Australia and pellets from  
our operations in Brazil. Our portfolio of mining operations includes: Western Australia 
Iron Ore - an integrated system of mines and more than 1,000 kilometres of rail 
infrastructure and port facilities in the Pilbara region of northern Western Australia;  
and Samarco - a joint venture interest in the Samarco operation, which comprises  
a mine, two 396-kilometre pipelines and two concentrators, located in Brazil.
Coal
Our Coal Business, headquartered in Brisbane, Australia, is the world's largest supplier  
of seaborne metallurgical coal and one of the world's largest producers and marketers  
of export energy coal. Our portfolio of mining operations includes: three Metallurgical 
Coal Assets, including BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) Joint Venture, 
BHP Billiton Mitsui Joint Venture, both located in the Bowen Basin in central 
Queensland, Australia, and Illawarra Coal in New South Wales, Australia;  
and four Energy Coal Assets: Energy Coal South Africa, New Mexico Coal,  
New South Wales Energy Coal and Cerrej n in Colombia.
Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel
Our Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business, headquartered in Perth, Australia,  
is one of the world's largest integrated producers of aluminium, nickel and manganese 
ore and alloy. Our portfolio of operations includes: Aluminium operations in southern 
Africa (Hillside, Bayside and Mozal smelters), Australia (Boddington/Worsley) and 
South America (Alumar); Manganese Assets located in Australia (GEMCO and TEMCO) 
and South Africa (HMM and Metalloys); and Nickel Assets, including Nickel West in 
Australia and Cerro Matoso in Colombia.
Photographs from top to bottom: Petroleum and Potash - Fayetteville (United States), Copper 
- Escondida (Chile), Iron Ore - Mt Whaleback (Australia), Coal - Middelburg (South Africa), 
Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel - Metalloys (South Africa).
1 
Key information
2 
Information on the Company
3 Operating and financial  
review and prospects
4 Board of Directors and  
Group Management Committee
5 Corporate  
Governance Statement
6 
Remuneration Report
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 201 3 | 3