 Dear Shareholder
In a volatile and uncertain year for global economies, I am  
pleased to report that your Company continued to perform well. 
BHP Billiton reported an Attributable profit, excluding exceptional 
items, of US$1 1 .8 billion, and the full-year dividend was increased 
by four per cent to 1 16 US cents per share. These solid financial 
results were underpinned by strong operating performance and  
a key focus on productivity .
Over the last decade, industrialisation and urbanisation in 
emerging economies underpinned strong commodities consumption. 
We maintain a positive outlook over the long term as the 
fundamentals of wealth creation, demographics and urbanisation 
continue to create demand for commodities across Asia and  
other markets. 
Increased supply has, however , exerted downward pressure  
on many commodity markets more recently and we expect  
this trend to continue over the short term. While lower rates  
of investment across the industry will ultimately lead to more 
balanced markets, all resources companies will need to improve 
productivity and be flexible enough to adapt to change in this 
more challenging environment.
Against that backdrop, we will continue to focus on two constants 
that have guided us through our 1 50-year history . The first is the 
significance of what we do. Rising living standards depend on 
economic growth, and we aim to safely , reliably and profitably 
supply the resources required to support economic growth.  
This helps improve the living standards of millions of people 
around the world every day . The second is how we operate.  
This is outlined in Our BHP Billiton Charter, which defines our 
values. Health and safety always come first. While our overall 
safety performance continued to improve, sadly , three colleagues 
lost their lives at work. On behalf of the Board, I offer our sincere 
condolences to their families and friends. These tragic incidents 
highlight the importance of remaining focused on providing  
a workplace where all of our people return home fit and well  
at the end of each day . 
As part of Our Charter value of Sustainability , we strive to be  
an integral part of our communities, making a positive difference 
at the local, regional and national level. We allocate one per cent 
of our pre-tax profits to community programs, which in 201 3 was 
US$245.8 million. These funds support community initiatives,  
such as the Colombia Resilience Project to alleviate poverty  
and hardship for vulnerable populations; the Royal Flying Doctor 
Service's On the Road initiative for people living, working and 
travelling in remote areas of Western Australia; the socio-economic 
component of our Black Economic Empowerment programs  
in South Africa. 
Our community programs are in addition to the US$1 1 .6 billion  
in taxes and royalties we paid to governments and our broader 
economic contribution in terms of jobs, capital investment and 
support of local businesses.
Looking ahead, we expect further volume growth at a lower unit 
cost as we continue to invest in our key commodities and major 
basins that provide the foundations for shareholder value creation. 
We also announced a further US$2.6 billion investment in our 
Jansen Potash Project. A growing population and improving 
incomes in emerging economies means the longer-term outlook  
for potash, a fertiliser that improves the yield and quality of 
agricultural production, is strong. Over many years, the Group's 
strategy has delivered significant value for shareholders, and  
we can expect a more productive and capital efficient organisation 
to build on that track record. 
This year , we also announced the retirement of Marius Kloppers 
and the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie as Chief Executive 
Officer of BHP Billiton. Marius made BHP Billiton a safer and 
financially stronger company , and we thank him for his leadership. 
Andrew brings a unique combination of deep industry knowledge 
and global management skills to the role, with more than  
30 years' experience in the oil and gas, petrochemicals  
and minerals industries.
Andrew and his new senior management team are off to a great 
start. T ogether with our 1 28,800 employees and contractors in 
more than 1 40 operations across the globe, they have delivered 
the record production and substantial productivity gains that 
underpinned our robust financial results. As the global economy 
continues to strengthen, the talents and efforts of all our people 
and our low-cost, upstream strategy and diversification ensure  
we are well positioned. Y our Board is confident in the outlook  
for BHP Billiton and we thank you for your continued support  
of our Company .
1 Key information continued
1.3 Chairman's Review
Jac Nasser AO 
Chairman
6 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 201 3