 Bidtimes Plc 8 
Financial statements for the year ended 29 February 2004 
 
A summary of amounts payable under the consultancy agreements is set out below: 
 
 2004 2003 Payable to 
      
    
B S North 
 
 
5,676 15,000 Brian North Associates, a 
partnership in which Mr North is a 
partner 
    
R W Stevens 15,158 
 
 
27,000 
 
 
Hamilton Securities, a partnership 
in which Mr Stevens is a partner. 
    
N B Fitzpatrick 7,539 
 
 
 
15,000 
 
 
 
Ocean Park Developments 
Limited, a company in which Mr 
Fitzpatrick is a director. 
    
R J Griffiths - -  
 
Consultancy fees paid to Brian North Associates and Hamiltons Securities are subject to 
Value Added Tax, which the company is unable to recover at the present time. 
Share option incentives 
The following directors have share options:  
 
At 
beginning 
and end of 
year 
Exercise  
price  
(pence) 
 No.  
   
R W Stevens 125,000 25 
N B Fitzpatrick 50,000 25 
 
 
The share options may be exercised in whole or in part before the seventh anniversary of 
the date of grant. 
 
The market value of the shares at 29 February 2004 was 3.50 pence (2003 : 3.75 pence) 
and the high and low prices during the year have been 5.5 pence and 2.25 pence 
respectively. 
 
 
 
 
  R W Stevens 
Chairman 
 
10 June 2004    9 
   
 
 Report of the independent auditors to the members of Bidtimes Plc 
 
 
 
 
We have audited the financial statements of Bidtimes Plc for the year ended  29 February 2004 
which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow 
statement and notes 1 to 23.  These financial statements have been prepared under the 
accounting policies set out therein. 
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 
235 of the Companies Act 1985.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' 
report and for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors' responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of 
directors' responsibilities. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and 
regulatory requirements and United Kingdom auditing standards. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view 
and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.  We also report to you 
if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the 
company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding 
directors' remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed. 
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited financial statements.  This other information comprises only 
the directors' report, the chairman's statement, the corporate governance statement and the 
report on remuneration.  We consider the implications for our report if we become aware 
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.  
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
 