 42 Biffa Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Corporate governance statement 
business objectives and supervising the Company's internal control
systems. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the management
of the Group's operations and for implementing Board strategy.
Directors may, from time to time, in furtherance of their duties take
independent professional advice at the Company's expense, while also
having access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and committee
meetings attended by each director during the year are shown above.
All the directors were subject to formal evaluation to ensure their
suitability for membership of the Board prior to the demerger of the
Company from Severn Trent in October 2006.
Martin Bettington and Tim Lowth have held the posts of Managing
Director and Finance Director of Biffa Waste Services Limited, the
principal trading company in the Group, for 15 and 6 years
respectively prior to Demerger. They thus provided the experience and
management continuity required for the listing of the Company's
shares.
In preparation for the appointment of non-executive directors required
to ensure compliance with the Combined Code, Severn Trent Plc
undertook, with the assistance of the Zygos Partnership, a rigorous
selection process, culminating in interviews with the Chairman of
Severn Trent Plc. Bob Davies demonstrated the necessary executive
and non-executive experience to equip him for the post of Chairman.
Roger Payne's experience as the Finance Director of a FTSE 100
company qualified him for the post of Chairman of the Audit
Committee and Senior Independent Non-executive Director. Angie
Risley, then human resources director of Whitbread PLC, and Gareth
Llewellyn, group director of corporate responsibility at National Grid
plc, brought the necessary expertise to chair specialist Board
committees and the breadth of experience to discharge the functions
of non-executive directors.
Going forward a formal process will be adopted, led by the Chairman,
for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal
committees, and thereby individual directors. The Chairman will
conduct the annual performance evaluation, taking into account the
views of the other directors. The results of the overall evaluation
process will be communicated to the Board and followed by
appropriate action. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
will conduct an annual performance evaluation of the Chairman,
taking into account the views of all directors.
Since demerger, there has also been in existence a board of senior
executives, the Executive Committee, which assists the Chief Executive
Officer in the management of the operations of the Group as a whole.
Chaired by Martin Bettington, Chief Executive Officer, it meets on a
regular basis. During the financial year it comprised the following
persons: Martin Bettington, Tim Lowth (Finance Director), Richard
Chivers (IT Director), Berian Griffiths (Director, EQHS), Nick Gregg
(Collection Director), Peter Jones (External Affairs Director), David
Knott (Resource Recovery and Landfill Director), Mathew Prosser
(Collection Sales Director), Malcolm Saville (Personnel Director), 
David Savory (Environment and Technical Director), Bob Tate (Director,
Special Waste Division) and Keith Woodward (Company Secretary)
with Bill Clark (Head of Legal Services) as Secretary.
In order to comply with the Company's Articles of Association adopted
in preparation for demerger, it is necessary that all directors submit
themselves for re-election. This will also satisfy the Principles of Good
Governance as set out in the Combined Code, which recommend that
all directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at
least every three years. Accordingly, resolutions will be put to the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-elect all the directors. The
executive directors, Martin Bettington and Tim Lowth have service
agreements with the Company which are terminable by one year's
notice from the Company. The non-executive directors, being Bob
Davies, Roger Payne, Gareth Llewellyn and Angie Risley, do not have
service agreements with the Company but each has a letter of
appointment. Further details can be found on page 49.
Following the formal and rigorous evaluation of the non-executive
directors prior to the demerger of the Company from Severn Trent in
October 2006 and being of the opinion that their performance
continues to be effective, independent and committed, the Board
recommends that they should be re-elected as non-executive directors
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of representing and promoting
the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to
shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
In fulfilment of his obligations under the Code, the Chairman gives
feedback to the Board on any issues raised with him by major
shareholders. This is supplemented by twice yearly feedback to the
Board on meetings between management and investors. The whole
Board periodically receives reports from external advisors on investor
perceptions and external brokers' reports on the Company are
circulated to all directors. All directors are due to attend the Annual
General Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask questions during
the meeting and to meet with the directors after the formal
proceedings have ended.
Remuneration Committee
Details of the constitution and function of the Remuneration
Committee are contained within the Directors' Remuneration Report
on pages 41 to 53.
Directors' remuneration
Details of the Group's policy in respect of directors' remuneration and
the remuneration and pension benefits pertaining to each of the
directors is contained within the Directors' Remuneration Report on
pages 41 to 53.