 30
 Biocompatibles International plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008
Stock Exchange code: BII
16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8 16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
Directors' Report on Remuneration
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee (the Committee ) on behalf of the Board in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and describes how 
the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors' remuneration. The Committee met on fi ve occasions during 2008.
A resolution to approve the Committee' s report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
This part of the Directors' Report on Remuneration is unaudited. 
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Committee are Sir Thomas Harris (Chairman), Gerry Brown, Jeremy Curnock Cook and Tony Weir, all of whom are independent 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company. No Committee member has a personal fi nancial interest (other than as a shareholder) in the matters to be 
decided. Attendance at meetings is set out on page 26 and the Terms of Reference for the Committee are available on the Company' s website 
www.biocompatibles.com.
Geoff Tompsett, Director of Human Resources, is Secretary to the Committee and attends its meetings. Crispin Simon, Chief Executive, attends 
meetings at the invitation of the Committee, but is not present when his own remuneration is being discussed. The Committee, in setting Executive 
Directors' remuneration, refers to independent data including an annual survey undertaken by Hewitt New Bridge Street (Hewitt ), an independent 
executive remuneration and share schemes consultancy, on remuneration levels amongst comparator companies. 
The Committee appointed Hewitt to provide advice on the policy for the award of share incentives and it contributes on-going advice in this regard. 
Hewitt does not provide any other services to the Group. The Committee also appointed Aon Consulting Limited (Aon ) to provide advice in relation 
to Executive Directors' pensions. Aon also provides actuarial, pension and employee benefi t administration services to the Company; however, in the 
light of the nature of advice received, the Committee is of the opinion that no potential confl ict exists. 
Policy on Directors' Remuneration
The Committee' s policy on Executive Directors' remuneration mirrors the Company' s policies on pay and benefi ts and is subject to regular review. 
This is to set salaries and benefi ts on the basis of median levels within the healthcare/biotech sector with the potential to reward performance up 
to the upper quartile of the sector through the annual bonus plan and share incentive schemes. The packages are designed to attract, motivate and 
retain talented executives. The main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior managers are basic annual salary and 
associated benefi ts, a performance related annual bonus, the long term incentive programme (the Performance Share Plan) and pension arrangements. 
The weighting between these elements refl ects the Company' s policy that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and 
senior executives should be performance related. 
The principal comparator group used to set remuneration is that defi ned by the participants of the Biotechnology Industry Remuneration Survey 
published by Hewitt.
Salary and Benefi ts
The Committee sets salaries after consideration of the Company' s performance, market conditions, comparable salaries in peer companies and the 
need to reward individual performance. The Committee reviews Executive Directors' basic salaries annually in December with changes becoming 
applicable from the start of the following year. In addition, salaries are reviewed at the time of the appointment of new Directors to the Board. The 
average increase in Executive Directors' salaries effective from 1 January 2009 was 2.8%, in line with the guidelines set across the Company. Details 
of each Executive Director' s remuneration are set out on page 34. 
Executive Directors' service contracts, which include details of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting. In 
addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors may receive the following benefi ts in kind: car allowance, life assurance, private medical insurance, 
health screening and gym membership.
16063BIOCOMPA.indd   30 16063BIOCOMPA.indd   30 16/04/2009   17:21 16/04/2009   17:21 16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
31
16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
Annual Bonus Payments
The Committee establishes the targets annually that must be met if a cash bonus is to be paid to an Executive Director. 
For 2009, the bonus payments are based on the achievement of predefi ned goals and the individual weightings of those goals. Each of the business 
goals is allocated a specifi c bonus percentage. 2009 Company/Group performance targets were determined at the beginning of the fi nancial year based 
on the following criteria:
l Achievement of budgeted sales revenue targets.
l Achievement of budgeted profi t measures.
l Achievement of commercial milestones.
l Achievement of regulatory project milestones.
l Achievement of research & development project milestones.
For 2009, the maximum bonus opportunity for the chief executive is 100% of base salary and for the other Executive Directors 75% of base salary. 
The majority of this opportunity (75% and 50% of base salary respectively) is based upon the achievement of these Company/Group performance 
targets; the balance is based upon the achievement of individual performance targets. These measures were selected by the Committee to ensure that 
the short-term incentive compensation awarded to Executive Directors is tied both to the overall performance of the Company and to those areas of its 
business that the relevant individual can directly infl uence. 
If the full bonus opportunity is earned the performance related element of the Executive Directors' remuneration (excluding share awards) will be 
between 38% and 45%. 
The Committee has considered through 2008 the best way to continue to incentivise management and concluded that, in line with a strategy of linking 
performance pay more closely to the achievement of strategic milestones, the weighting between the annual bonus and Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
should be adjusted in favour of the annual bonus.
Under a new policy for senior executive incentives, it is proposed that the package for short and long-term incentives will be re-weighted as follows:
 2009 2010
    Bonus Max
  Bonus Max Performance (75% cash/25% Performance
  (100% cash) Shares deferred shares) Shares
CEO  100% 54% 130% 24%
Executive Directors  75% 52% 100% 25%
 
As demonstrated above, the re-weighting of the package is not intended to increase the quantum of the total package, rather to strengthen the link with 
the achievement of key value-adding targets. However, any bonus payments in excess of the historic scheme maximums (i.e. 100% of base salary for 
the Chief Executive and for the other Executive Directors, 75% of base salary) will be delivered in the form of deferred shares that will vest two years 
after the period in which they have been earned (subject to the recipient remaining in the Company' s employment). In formulating these proposals, the 
Committee consulted with the Company' s signifi cant shareholders. A strong share-based element will be maintained in the package, through deferred 
shares and the separate awards of performance shares (subject to long-term TSR performance) which will ensure that a focus on longer-term stock 
market-based performance remains. It is proposed that any such deferred share awards will be delivered via a modifi ed version of the PSP rules and 
will be satisfi ed using either newly issued or market purchased shares. Shareholder approval of the necessary amendments to the PSP' s rules (together 
with an extension of the dilution limits that govern share incentives for management) will be sought at the 2009 Annual General Meeting. If approved, 
the revised annual bonus/deferred share award structure will be introduced in 2010. 
16063BIOCOMPA.indd   31 16063BIOCOMPA.indd   31 16/04/2009   17:21 16/04/2009   17:21 32
 Biocompatibles International plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008
Stock Exchange code: BII
16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8 16063     16/4/2009      PROOF 8
Long Term Incentive Plans
Performance Share Plan
The Company operates a long term incentive plan, the Performance Share Plan. Awards under the PSP take the form of nil cost options and are 
subject to a maximum award equivalent to one times base salary except in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment to senior positions where the 
maximum value of shares awarded is limited to two times salary. 
Awards vest after three years, subject to a performance condition based on the Company' s Total Shareholder Return (TSR ) against a comparator 
Group comprising the constituents of the FTSE techMARK All-Share Index of which the Company is a member. Performance shares only vest if the 
Company ranks in the top half of the ranking table, maximum vesting only occurs if the Company is in the upper quartile. Vesting is also conditional 
on an improvement in the underlying fi nancial performance of the Company. Awards vest to the extent that the performance condition has been 
satisfi ed at the end of the three-year performance period. To the extent that the performance target is not met, the awards are forfeited. Where the TSR 
ranks between median and upper quartile after three years the performance award vest pro-rata between 25% and 100%. Where the TSR ranks below 
median after three years the performance target will not have been met and the Performance Award lapses. The relevant TSR fi gures are averaged over 
the three-month periods preceding the beginning and end of the performance period. There is no opportunity for retesting the performance condition. 
The TSR performance condition is calculated by independent advisers and verifi ed by the Remuneration Committee. Once vested, an award is 
normally only capable of exercise for a period of six months.
The choice of the above conditions refl ects the Committee' s belief that measuring the Company' s TSR performance against this benchmark rewards 
stock market outperformance and aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
Executive Share Option Schemes 
The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme, 1995 Savings-Related Option Scheme and the 2003 Employee Share Option Scheme are closed to further 
membership. Any shares acquired from options achieving their performance conditions are awarded in the form of new unissued shares. 
Share Incentive Plan
The Company also operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP ). In September 2006 the Board adopted Schedule 1 
to the Scheme allowing for the grant of Free shares to non-UK employees. The SIP is a share ownership plan open to all employees with a qualifying 
period of employment of 12 months. It takes the form of an allocation of Free shares not exceeding  3,000 in value in any tax year, a monthly 
employee purchase of Partnership shares, up to a maximum value of  125 per month, and a 2:1 award of Matching shares for each Partnership share 
purchased. The Free and Matching shares are held in trust for a minimum of three years and are not subject to any performance criteria. The Free and 
Matching shares are satisfi ed through the allocation of new shares issued to the Trust. Executive Directors participate on the same terms as all other 
UK employees and details of their share interests under this plan are given in the table on page 36.
Shareholding
In order to ensure that Executive Directors' interests are aligned with those of shareholders, the Company has adopted shareholding guidelines linked 
to the out-turn of the share based incentive schemes. Executive Directors are expected to retain no fewer than 50% of shares net of taxes until a 
shareholding equivalent to 100% of base salary has been achieved. 
Pension Arrangements
Each of the Executive Directors is a member of the Group Stakeholder Pension Plan which provides retirement benefi ts and dependants' pensions. 
They also benefi t from life insurance which provides death-in-service benefi ts of four times basic annual salary. Contributions by the Director and 
the Company are based on a percentage of pensionable salary (not including bonus payments) and vary according to the age of the Director. No other 
payments to Directors are pensionable. The normal retirement age under the Pension Plan for Executive Directors is 65 years; early retirement is 
permissible with Company consent from age 55. 
An additional voluntary contribution (A VC ) matching arrangement was introduced in 2004 whereby the Company matches A VCs made by 
employees and Directors up to a maximum of 3% of basic salary.
Directors' Report on Remuneration continued
16063BIOCOMPA.indd   32 16063BIOCOMPA.indd   32 16/04/2009   17:21 16/04/2009   17:21