 The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the group's system of internal control for the
financial year and the period up to the date of approval of the financial statements. The Board has considered
the need for an internal audit function and concluded that this would not be appropriate at present due to
the size of the Group.
A risk management review has again been undertaken during the financial year by the operating company, 
to identify, evaluate and manage key risks. This review forms the basis of the company's ongoing strategy 
to achieve a sound system of internal controls based on a thorough and regular evaluation of the nature and
extent of risks to which the company is exposed. 
Remuneration Report
As an AIM listed company, Birmingham City plc is not required to comply with the Directors' Report 
Regulations 2002.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the emoluments of executive directors, and
consists of the non-executive directors. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the
company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The main element of the executive directors' remuneration package is basic annual salary.
Each executive director's salary is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee in the light of the 
overall performance of the group. In deciding upon appropriate levels of remuneration, the Remuneration
Committee has regard to the rates of pay for similar jobs in comparable companies as well as internal factors
such as performance. Executive directors' basic salaries were last reviewed in August 2008. There are no share
options outstanding at 31st August 2007 and 2008. All share options were exercised during the year ended 
31st August 2007. 
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board within the limits set out in
the Articles of Association. Non-executive directors cannot participate in any of the company's share
option schemes.
Disclosure of directors' remuneration is given within note 5 to the financial statements.
D Sullivan
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Date: 13th January 2009
Corporate Governance Report 12
Birmingham City plc 
for the year ended 31st August 2008
81668 PRE-ACC:81668 PRE-ACC  29/1/09  08:46  Page 12