 14
Report of the Board to 
the Shareholders on 
Directors' Remuneration
Bizspace Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Remuneration Report
The following is a report by the Remuneration
Committee, which has been approved and adopted
by the Board for submission to the shareholders.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee
consisted of the non-executive directors, S Landy
(Chairman of the Committee) and J Radgick. The
Committee determines the level of remuneration 
of the executive directors.
Remuneration policy on Executive 
Directors' remuneration
Executive remuneration packages are designed 
to attract, motivate and retain directors of 
the high calibre required and to reward them for
enhancing value to shareholders. The performance
measurement of executive directors and the
determination of their annual remuneration
package is undertaken by the committee consisting
solely of non-executive directors. The remuneration
of the non-executive directors is determined by the
full board. There are two main elements of the
remuneration package for executive directors and
senior managers:
1 Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration
Committee at the beginning of each year and
when an individual changes position or
responsibility. Appropriate salary levels are set
by reference to the performance experience 
and responsibilities of each individual concerned
and having regard to the prevailing market
conditions; and
2 Performance related bonuses are assessed
annually and are based on a combination of
individual and corporate performances during 
the preceding financial year.
Share options are granted by the Committee 
and are assessed on an individual basis with 
a view to motivating and retaining directors in 
the long term.
In framing their policy the Remuneration
Committee has given full consideration to
provisions in Section (a) of the Combined Code 
on Corporate governance.
Directors' contracts
With effect from 8 June 2001 Mr L G Lipman and 
Mr P M Davis signed service contracts directly with
Bizspace Plc, terminable at any time on 12 months
notice with a current remuneration of  30,000
each.Mr N SCorderey signed a three year service
contract with Bizspace Plc dated 11 June 2001
with a current remuneration of  100,000. S Landy
and J Radgick have non-executive letters of
appointment with the Company terminable by
either party giving not less than three months
written notice.
Details of Directors' remuneration
The report should be read in conjunction with 
note 11 to the accounts which also constitutes part
of this report. This note details all elements of the
remuneration package for each director. 15