 REPORT OF THE BOARD TO THE SHAREHOLDERS
ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The following is a report by the Remuneration
Committee, which has been approved and adopted 
by the Board.
Remuneration committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee
consisted of the non-executive directors, SS Landy
(Chairman of the Committee) and JP Radgick.
The Committee determines the level of remuneration
of the executive directors.
Remuneration policy on executive directors'
remuneration
Executive remuneration packages are designed to
attract, motivate and retain directors of the high calibre
required and to reward them for enhancing value to
shareholders. The performance measurement of
executive directors and the determination of their
annual remuneration package is undertaken by the
committee consisting solely of non-executive directors.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is
determined by the full board.
There are two main elements of the remuneration
package for executive directors and senior managers:
1 Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration
Committee at the beginning of each year and when
an individual changes position or responsibility.
Appropriate salary levels are set by reference to the
performance experience and responsibilities of each
individual concerned and having regard to the
prevailing market conditions; and
2 Performance related bonuses are assessed annually
and are based on a combination of individual and
corporate performances during the preceding
financial year.
Share options are granted by the Committee and 
are assessed on an individual basis with a view to
motivating and retaining directors in the long term.
In framing their policy the Remuneration Committee
has given full consideration to provisions in Section (a)
of the Combined Code on Corporate governance.
Directors' contracts
With effect from 8 June 2001 LG Lipman and PM Davis
signed service contracts directly with Bizspace plc,
terminable at any time on 12 months' notice for an
annual salary of  40,000 and  30,000 respectively.
NS Corderey signed a three year service contract
with Bizspace plc dated 30 April 2004 with a current
salary of  130,000. SS Landy and JP Radgick have 
non-executive letters of appointment with the
Company terminable by either party giving not less
than three month's written notice for which they are
paid an annual fee of  16,000. They are also entitled 
to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred
in performing their duties.
Details of directors' remuneration
The report should be read in conjunction with note 
7 to the accounts which also constitutes part of 
this report. This note details all elements of the
remuneration package for each director.
15 BIZSPACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005