 15 Blacks Leisure Group plc
Directors' Remuneration Report
Unaudited information 
The Remuneration Committee The
Remuneration Committee is composed 
of C.M. Littner (Chairman), D.A. Bernstein
and D.G. Trangmar. The Remuneration
Committee, on behalf of the Board, makes
recommendations regarding Executive
Directors' remuneration packages
including bonuses, share options and
other incentive schemes.
Directors' service contracts
Executive Directors For each Executive
Director, their service contract may 
be terminated by either party giving 
twelve months' notice.
Non-Executive Directors For each 
Non-Executive Director , their service
contract is for two years and may be
terminated by either party giving six
months' notice.
Group policy on Executive Directors'
remuneration The objective of the Group' s
remuneration policy is to provide a level 
of remuneration which will attract, retain 
and motivate Executive Directors and
senior management of high quality .
Share options and longer term incentives
are used as part of the Group' s remuneration
policy . The amounts involved and the
frequency of issue endeavour to keep 
pace with current market practice.
Variable Rewards
Executive Directors 
Bonus Scheme Executive Directors 
are entitled to performance related bonuses 
that are payable based, in the main, upon the
profit before interest and tax improvement of
the Group, or individual Group companies,
consistent with corporate financial targets
as determined by the Remuneration
Committee. The Remuneration Committee
reviews performance against targets at the
end of the year and may use its discretion
to adjust measures and payments in view
of operating circumstances during the year .
Bonus payments are non-pensionable and
are subject to approval by the Committee.
The achievement of the highest
performance targets would entitle the
Director to the maximum bonus payable 
of 1 00% of basic salary . 
Pension The Group made pension
contributions of up to 20% of basic salary
for the Executive Directors. These
contributions are paid into the equivalent
of money purchase pension schemes. 
No Directors are in the defined benefit
pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors The remuneration
of Non-Executive Directors is set by the
Executive Directors and consists of fees 
for their services in connection with Board
and Committee meetings and other
relevant matters.
Other matters The fees shown in respect
of D.A. Bernstein are paid to a third party .
Share price performance
The mid-market price on 28 February 2005 was 491.5 pence. 
The lowest and highest prices during the year were 381.0 pence  and 492.5 pence.
The following graph shows the Company' s  performance, measured by total shareholder 
return, compared with the performance of the FTSE Small Cap over the last five years.
The Remuneration Committee has selected the above index as it is relevant 
for a company of Blacks' size.
2001
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
2002 2003 2004 2005
 
Blacks Leisure
FTSE Small Cap