 REMUNERATION REPORT
23
ANNUAL REPORT 2005
As an AIM listed company BNB Recruitment
Solutions PLC is not required to comply with the
Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Remuneration policy
The objective is to attract, motivate and retain
high quality individuals through a competitive
package of rewards with an emphasis on
performance related compensation.
The Compensation and Nominations Committee
(Committee ) retains compensation consultants
as and when required to conduct reviews of the
BNB Recruitment Solutions Board's remuneration
policies as they relate to annual salaries,
performance bonus plans and long term incentive
programmes. Comparative assessments with
competitor companies are considered as also is
best current practice in encouraging the
enhancement of shareholder value.
There are four main elements of remuneration -
basic annual salary, performance related 
annual bonus, share option incentives and
pension arrangements.
Compensation and nominations
committee
The Committee is responsible for determining on
behalf of the Board the emoluments of executive
Directors. The Committee is comprised solely of
the non-executive Directors of the Company and
is chaired by Julian Treger. The Committee seeks
the advice of other board executives as it
considers appropriate.  
Executive Directors' salaries
Basic salary for each Director is determined 
by the Committee taking into account the
performance of the individual and market
information on the rates of salary for similar 
jobs in a selected group of companies.
Performance related annual bonus
The Committee, balancing the short term and the
longer term, sets the targets for annual bonus.
Superior performance is encouraged by providing
challenging performance goals which must be
achieved before the maximum bonus is payable.
The bonus scheme, which is applied ultimately at
the discretion of the Committee, is assessed each
year on the achievement of specific corporate
earnings growth as well as the achievement of
personal objectives and the level of profitability
of the division for which the Director is responsible.
Incentive schemes
Details of the Company's employee share option
schemes are set out in note 29 on pages 60 to 61.
Pensions
The Company contributes to a money purchase
pension scheme in respect of Simon Grinstead
and Paul Turner at the rate of 10% basic salary
per annum.
Robert Bain is a member of the Group Final
Salary Scheme, employer contributions to 
which are disclosed in note 29.
Service contracts
Simon Grinstead has service contracts with group
companies which reflect where he is expected to
devote his time, terminable by either party on 12
months' notice.
Paul T urner has a service contract which is terminable
by the Company on 12 months' notice. Robert Bain
has a service contract which is terminable by the
Company on 24 months' notice. Krista Walochik
has a service contract which is terminable by the
Company on 3 months' notice.
The Company applies the principle of mitigation
to any payment of compensation on termination.
Julian Treger, Roderick MacLeod and the Rt. Hon.
John Redwood MP were appointed as non-executive
Directors for an initial fixed term of 2 years and
do not have service contracts with the Company.
Their appointments have been renewed for a
further 12 months.
Douglas Bugie is engaged as a non-executive
Director under the terms of a Deed of Appointment,
which is terminable by the Company on 
1 months notice.
All the arrangements described above are 
subject to compliance with the Company's
Articles of Association.
Annual accounts
Full details of remuneration and share options 
for the Directors are given in the notes to the
accounts on pages 60 to 62.