 8
REMUNERATION REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY
The objective is to attract, motivate and retain high quality individuals
through a competitive package of rewards with an emphasis on
performance related compensation.
The Compensation and Nominations Committee (Committee )
retains compensation consultants as and when required to conduct
reviews of the BNB Resources Board's remuneration policies as they
relate to annual salaries, performance bonus plans and long term
incentive programmes. Comparative assessments with competitor
companies are considered as also is best current practice in
encouraging the enhancement of shareholder value. 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible for determining on behalf of the Board
the emoluments of executive directors. The Committee is comprised
solely of the non-executive directors of the Company and is chaired
by Julian Treger. The Committee seeks the advice of other board
executives as it considers appropriate.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' SALARIES
Basic salary for each director is determined by the Committee taking
into account the performance of the individual and market
information on the rates of salary for similar jobs in a selected group
of companies.
PERFORMANCE RELATED ANNUAL BONUS
The Committee, balancing the short term and the longer term, sets
the targets for annual bonus. Superior performance is encouraged by
providing challenging performance goals which must be achieved
before the maximum bonus is payable.
The bonus scheme, which is applied ultimately at the discretion of
the Committee, is assessed each year on the achievement of specific
corporate earnings growth as well as the achievement of personal
objectives and the level of profitability of the division for which the
director is responsible.
INCENTIVE SCHEMES
Details of the Company's executive share option scheme, employee
share option schemes and long term incentive plan are set out in the
directors' report on page 6.
SERVICE CONTRACTS
Paul Turner has a service contract, which is terminable by the
Company on twelve months' notice. Douglas Bugie has a service
contract, which is terminable by the Company on one weeks' notice.
Robert Bain has a service contract, which is terminable by the
Company on 24 months' notice. 
The Committee considers that these contracts are in line with the
market. The Company applies the principle of mitigation to any
payment of compensation on termination. Non-executive directors
are appointed for an initial fixed term of two years and do not have
service contracts with the Company. 
All the arrangements described above are subject to compliance with
the Company's Articles of Association.
PENSIONS
The Company contributes to a money purchase pension scheme in
respect of Paul Turner at the rate of 10% basic salary per annum.
Robert Bain is a member of the Group Final Salary Scheme, employer
contributions to which are disclosed in Note 26.
ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
Full details of remuneration and share options for the directors are
given in the notes to the accounts on pages 33 to 34.