 22
Annual Report 2004
As an AIM listed company BNB Resources PLC is
not required to comply with the Directors'
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Remuneration Policy
The objective is to attract, motivate and retain
high quality individuals through a competitive
package of rewards with an emphasis on
performance related compensation.
The Compensation and Nominations Committee
(Committee ) retains compensation consultants
as and when required to conduct reviews of the
BNB Resources Board's remuneration policies as
they relate to annual salaries, performance bonus
plans and long term incentive programmes.
Comparative assessments with competitor
companies are considered as also is best current
practice in encouraging the enhancement of
shareholder value.
Compensation and Nominations
Committee
The Committee is responsible for determining 
on behalf of the Board the emoluments of
executive directors. The Committee is comprised
solely of the non-executive directors of the
Company and is chaired by Julian Treger. The
Committee seeks the advice of other board
executives as it considers appropriate. 
There are four main elements of remuneration -
Basic annual salary, performance related 
annual bonus, share option incentives and 
pension arrangements.
Executive Directors' Salaries
Basic salary for each director is determined by the
Committee taking into account the performance
of the individual and market information on the
rates of salary for similar jobs in a selected group 
of companies.
Performance Related Annual Bonus
The Committee, balancing the short term and the
longer term, sets the targets for annual bonus.
Superior performance is encouraged by providing
challenging performance goals which must be
achieved before the maximum bonus is payable.
The bonus scheme, which is applied ultimately at
the discretion of the Committee, is assessed each
year on the achievement of specific corporate
earnings growth as well as the achievement of
personal objectives and the level of profitability of
the division for which the director is responsible.
Incentive Schemes
Details of the Company's executive share option
scheme, employee share option schemes and long
term incentive plan are set out in the directors'
report on page 20.
Pensions
The Company contributes to a money purchase
pension scheme in respect of Simon Grinstead and
Paul Turner at the rate of 10% basic salary per
annum.
Robert Bain is a member of the Group Final Salary
Scheme, employer contributions to which are
disclosed in Note 27.
Service Contracts
Simon Grinstead has service contracts with group
companies which reflect where he is expected to
devote his time, terminable by either party on
twelve months' notice.
Paul Turner has a service contract which is
terminable by the Company on 12 months' notice.
Douglas Bugie has a service contract which is
terminable by the Company on three months'
notice. Robert Bain has a service contract which is
terminable by the Company on 24 months' notice.
The Committee considers that these contracts are
in line with the market. The Company applies the
principle of mitigation to any payment of
compensation on termination. Non-executive
directors are appointed for an initial fixed term of
two years and do not have service contracts with
the Company. Their appointments have been
renewed for a further 12 months.
All the arrangements described above are subject
to compliance with the Company's Articles 
of Association.
Annual Accounts
Full details of remuneration and share options for
the directors are given in the notes to the
accounts on pages 59 to 60.
REMUNERATION REPORT
......................................................................................................................