 Remuneration
Report
11
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises J M Baldwin (Non-executive Chairman) and R G Hall (Non-executive Director).
General policy
The policy is to provide remuneration packages for executive directors which aim to attract and retain high quality executives and
which link their reward to the group's performance.
Throughout the year, the company has complied with Section A of the best practice provisions annexed to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority.
Remuneration package
There are four components to the remuneration package, namely base salary and benefits, bonus and commission, pension
contributions and long-term incentive arrangements:
  The base salaries of the executive directors were set at levels considered to be appropriate when they entered into service
agreements with companies in the group. The base salaries are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee annually and any
increases are awarded having regard to performance and salary levels in comparable organisations. Benefits, which include a
fully expensed car and private health insurance, are not pensionable.
  S R Russell and M J Clements are entitled to a bonus based on the annual profits of the group before taxation. T Richards is
entitled to a bonus on the sales of Bond International Software (UK) Limited. 
  The group contributes to money purchase pension arrangements. Death in service benefit is also provided.
  The company has established approved, unapproved and Enterprise Management Incentive share option schemes, in which the
executive directors may participate.
In framing the remuneration policy, the company has given full consideration to Section B of the best practice provisions annexed
to the Listing Rules.
An analysis of directors' emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2002 is set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
Service contracts and letters of engagement
The executive directors have rolling annual service contracts.
J M Baldwin has a letter of engagement relating to his appointment as Non-executive Chairman. The agreement may be terminated
by either party on one month's notice.
The company has entered into a consultancy agreement with Richard Hall Consultancy for the services of R G Hall as a non-
executive director. The agreement may be terminated by either party on three months' notice.
Directors' fees
The executive directors are responsible for setting the fees of the non-executive directors, who do not receive any benefits or
pension contributions.
Remuneration Report Remuneration
Report
12
Share option schemes
It is the group's policy to issue share options at appropriate intervals to motivate and retain employees and to align their interests with
those of shareholders. The company presently operates three share option schemes, one of which is approved by the Inland Revenue. 
Under the share option schemes the Remuneration Committee may grant to directors and employees options to subscribe for shares
in the company, at an exercise price not less than the market price at the time of the grant.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in the company's approved share option scheme. However, they are entitled
to participate in the unapproved share option scheme. 
During the year, the Remuneration Committee granted 52,000 options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company at 18.0
pence per share.
Martin Baldwin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 MARCH 2003
Remuneration Report (continued)