 Bond International Software
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises J M Baldwin (non-executive Chairman) and R G Hall (non-executive Director).
General policy
The policy is to provide remuneration packages for executive directors which aim to attract and retain high quality executives and which link
their reward to the group's performance.
Remuneration package
There are four components to the remuneration package, namely base salary and benefits, bonus and commission, pension contributions and
long-term incentive arrangements:
  The base salaries of the executive directors were set at levels considered to be appropriate when they entered into service agreements
with companies in the group. The base salaries are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee annually and any increases are awarded
having regard to performance and salary levels in comparable organisations. Benefits, which include a fully expensed car and private health
insurance, are not pensionable.
  S R Russell and B A Morrison are entitled to a bonus based on the annual profits of the group before taxation. T Richards is entitled to a
bonus on the profits of Bond International Software (UK) Limited. 
  The group contributes to money purchase pension arrangements. Death in service benefit is also provided.
  The company has established approved, unapproved and Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) share option schemes, in which the
directors may participate.
  In framing the remuneration policy, the company has given full consideration to the provisions contained in Code Provision B.1 and
Schedule A of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Details of the directors' emoluments are set out in Note 5 to the accounts on page 24.
Service contracts and letters of engagement
S R Russell and T Richards have rolling annual service contracts. B A Morrison has a service contract which requires three months' notice by
either party.
J M Baldwin has a letter of engagement relating to his appointment as non-executive Chairman. The agreement may be terminated by either
party on one month's notice.
The company has entered into a consultancy agreement with Richard Hall Consultancy for the services of R G Hall as a non-executive director.
The agreement may be terminated by either party on three months' notice.
Directors' fees
The executive directors are responsible for setting the fees of the non-executive directors, who do not receive any benefits or pension
contributions.
Remuneration Report
13 Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Remuneration Report
14
Share options
It is the group's policy to issue share options at appropriate intervals to motivate and retain employees and to align their interests with those of
shareholders. The company presently operates three share option schemes:
  An EMI scheme
  An HM Revenue & Customs approved scheme
  An unapproved scheme
Under the share option schemes the Remuneration Committee may grant to directors and employees options to subscribe for shares in the
company, at an exercise price not less than the market price at the time of the grant.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in the company's EMI scheme or approved share option scheme. However, they are
entitled to participate in the unapproved share option scheme. 
Martin Baldwin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 March 2006
Remuneration Report (continued)