 The Remuneration Committee
The company is not required by the Listing Rules or Companies Act to produce a remuneration report but has done so to maintain 
its commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance. The company's remuneration policy is the responsibility of the 
Remuneration Committee which comprises J M Baldwin (non-executive Chairman) and R G Hall (non-executive Director).
General policy
The company's policy is to provide remuneration packages for executive directors which aim to attract and retain high quality executives 
and which link their reward to the group's performance.
Remuneration package
There are four components to the remuneration package, namely base salary and benefits, bonus and commission, pension contributions 
and long-term incentive arrangements:
  The base salaries of the executive directors were set at levels considered to be appropriate when they entered into service 
agreements with companies in the group. The base salaries are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee annually and any 
increases are awarded having regard to performance and salary levels in comparable organisations. Benefits, which include a fully 
expensed car and private health insurance, are not pensionable.
  S R Russell and B A Morrison are entitled to a bonus based on the annual profits of the group before taxation. T Richards is entitled to 
a bonus on the profits of Bond International Software (UK) Limited. 
  The group contributes to money purchase pension arrangements. Death in service benefit is also provided.
  The company has established approved, unapproved and Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) share option schemes, in which the 
directors may participate.
In framing the remuneration policy, the company has given full consideration to the provisions contained in Code Provision B.1  
and Schedule A of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Details of the directors' emoluments are set out in note 29 to the accounts.
Service contracts and letters of engagement
S R Russell and T Richards have rolling annual service contracts. B A Morrison has a service contract which requires six months' notice 
by either party.
J M Baldwin has a letter of engagement relating to his appointment as non-executive Chairman. The agreement may be terminated by 
either party on one month's notice. M Leonard has a letter of engagement relating to his appointment as non-executive Director. The 
agreement may be terminated in accordance with the Articles. The company has entered into a consultancy agreement with Richard Hall 
Consultancy for the services of R G Hall as a non-executive director and company secretary. The agreement may be terminated by either 
party on three months' notice.
Remuneration Report
Bond International Software
Remuneration Report  21   Directors' fees
The executive directors are responsible for setting the fees of the non-executive directors, who do not receive any benefits or pension contributions.
Share options
It is the group's policy to issue share options at appropriate intervals to motivate and retain employees and to align their interests with 
those of shareholders. The company presently operates four share option schemes:
  An EMI scheme
  An HM Revenue & Customs approved scheme
  An unapproved scheme
  The 2009 Company Share Option Plan
By virtue of its size the company is no longer able to grant share options under the EMI scheme, and the HM Revenue & Customs 
approved scheme and unapproved scheme are closed to new grants. Under the 2009 Company Share Option Plan the Remuneration 
Committee may grant to directors and employees options to subscribe for shares in the company, at an exercise price not less than the 
market price at the time of the grant. Non-executive directors are entitled to participate in the 2009 Company Share Option Plan.
Martin Baldwin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 April 2011
Remuneration Report (continued)
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
22  Remuneration Report