 The Remuneration Committee
The company is not required by the Listing Rules or Companies Act to produce a remuneration report but has done so to maintain good 
standards of corporate governance although this does not comply with the Corporate Governance Code published by the QCA. The 
company's remuneration policy is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee which comprised Martin Baldwin (non-executive 
Chairman), Richard Hall and Mark Leonard (non-executive Directors) during the year.
General policy
The company's policy is to provide remuneration packages for executive directors which aim to attract and retain high quality executives 
and which link their reward to the group's performance.
Remuneration package
There are four components to the remuneration package, namely base salary and benefits, bonus and commission, pension contributions 
and long-term incentive arrangements:
  The base salaries of the executive directors were set at levels considered to be appropriate when they entered into service 
agreements with companies in the group. The base salaries are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee annually and any 
increases are awarded having regard to performance and salary levels in comparable organisations. Benefits, which include a fully 
expensed car and private health insurance, are not pensionable.
  Stephen Russell and Bruce Morrison are entitled to a bonus based on the annual profits of the group before taxation. Tim Richards is 
entitled to a bonus on the profits of Bond International Software (UK) Limited. 
  The group contributes to money purchase pension arrangements. Death in service benefit is also provided.
  The company has established approved, unapproved and Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) share option schemes, in which the 
directors may participate.
Details of the directors' emoluments are set out in note 28 to the accounts.
Service contracts and letters of engagement
Stephen Russell and Tim Richards have rolling annual service contracts. Bruce Morrison has a service contract which requires twelve 
months' notice by either party.
Martin Baldwin has a letter of engagement relating to his appointment as non-executive Chairman. The agreement may be terminated 
by either party on one month's notice. Mark Leonard had a letter of engagement relating to his appointment as non-executive Director. 
The agreement could have been terminated in accordance with the Articles. Richard Hall has a letter of appointment covering his role as 
a non-executive director which is subject to three months' notice by either party. The company is also party to an agreement with Richard 
Hall Consultancy for the provision of consultancy services which is subject to four months' notice by either party.
Bond International Software
Remuneration Report  23
Remuneration Report Directors' fees
The executive directors are responsible for setting the fees of the non-executive directors. The non-executive directors do not receive any 
benefits or pension contributions.
Share options
It is the group's policy to issue share options at appropriate intervals to motivate and retain employees and to align their interests with 
those of shareholders. The company presently operates four share option schemes:
  An EMI scheme
  An HM Revenue & Customs approved scheme
  An unapproved scheme
  The 2009 Company Share Option Plan
By virtue of its size the company is no longer able to grant share options under the EMI scheme, and the HM Revenue & Customs 
approved and unapproved schemes are closed to new grants. Under the 2009 Company Share Option Plan the Remuneration Committee 
may grant to directors and employees options to subscribe for shares in the company, at an exercise price not less than the market price 
at the time of the grant. Non-executive directors are entitled to participate in the 2009 Company Share Option Plan.
Martin Baldwin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 April 2014
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
24  Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report (continued)