 21/Directors' remuneration report
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and Schedule B of the
Combined Code annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The remuneration committee (the  Committee')
The members of the Committee during the year were:
Sir Nigel Rudd (chairman)
J Bennink
Dr J G S Buchanan
F M Harrison (resigned 6th November 2002)
J B McGrath
H Ploix
Dr M P Read
The main responsibilities of the Committee are summarised in the corporate governance statement on page 18. The Committee
appointed T owers Perrin to provide it with external advice in determining the appropriate remuneration, terms and conditions and
bonus schemes for directors. Mr S G Russell, former chief executive, and Mr A P Smith, human resources director, have also advised
the Committee when requested. T owers Perrin has also provided market data for executives and senior managers and consulting
support in reviewing pensions and understanding current remuneration trends.
Contracts of service
The chairman, Mr J B McGrath, has an agreement with the company dated 18th May 2001 relating to his services as chairman, which
is terminable by either party without notice or compensation. Mr J B McGrath will retire as chairman and from the board on 15th
September 2003. None of the non-executive directors has a service contract or contract for services. Each director is required to stand
for reappointment every three years and may be required to stand for reappointment at an earlier date in order to satisfy the
provisions in the company' s articles of association requiring not less than one third of the board to seek reappointment at each AGM.
The articles of association of the company contain provisions relating to earlier vacation of office without notice and non-executive
directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of office.
All executive directors' service contracts terminate when the director in question reaches the age of 60. All serving executive directors'
service contracts are terminable by the company on one year' s notice and the Committee has determined that one years notice is the
appropriate period of notice to be given to an executive director. Exceptionally, in circumstances such as the appointment of a chief
executive from outside the company, the Committee may consider an initial period of greater security to be appropriate and agree
that the one year' s notice should not be given before the first anniversary of appointment. The Committee has taken this view in
respect of the appointment of Mr R Baker, who will join the company as chief executive on 15th September 2003. 
Details of the contracts of executive directors who served during the year are as follows:
Date of Unexpired Notice Provision for
contract term period compensation
P Bateman 25th July 2002 1 year rolling 1 year Nil
B Clare* 7th April 1999 T erminated on 31st January 2003 1 year Nil
H Dodd 4th June 2003 1 year rolling 1 year Nil
K S Piggott** 25th July 2002 T erminated on 31st December 2002 1 year Nil
S G Russell 25th July 2002 T erminated on 31st May 2003 1 year Nil
A P Smith 10th April 2001 1 year rolling 1 year Nil
D A R Thompson 1st July 1990 T erminated (at age 60) on 4th September 2002 1 year Nil
*Resigned on 31st January 2003.
**Resigned from the board on 31st December 2002.
None of the above contracts contain provisions relating to compensation on termination and in the event of any service contract
being terminated by the company giving less than the contractual period of notice, the requirement for the director to mitigate their
loss where appropriate has been taken into account in determining any resulting compensation. In the case of Mr R Baker, however,
the company has agreed provisions relating to pay in lieu of notice / liquidated damages under which if Mr R Baker' s contract is
terminated with less notice than his contract provides, then he will receive 85% of the salary, pension and short term bonus and other
benefits he would have received had he been given the notice to which he was entitled under his contract, but without receiving any
compensation for any loss of long term incentives or share options.
Following the announcement in December 2002 that the company was seeking to appoint a new chief executive to succeed
Mr S G Russell, the Committee agreed terms with Mr S G Russell under which he would, subject to him remaining in office as chief
executive until 31st July 2003, or until such earlier date as the company wished him to step down, receive his pay and benefits until
31st July 2003, and then, on leaving the company, receive  757,732 in compensation for loss of office, being the value of one year's
salary, short term bonus and car allowance, and be credited with one year' s additional service in his pension arrangements. He will
also continue to participate in the Long T erm Incentive Plan performance periods ending on or before 31st March 2004. 
On 31st January 2003 Mr B Clare resigned from the boards of Boots Group PLC and of The Boots Company PLC, and received
 528,000 as compensation for loss of office, being the equivalent of nine month' s salary and the estimated value of other benefits
that he would have received had he been given nine months' notice. Mr B Clare, and certain of his dependants, also agreed with 
the company to surrender their accrued entitlements under the unfunded unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme, in which Mr B Clare
had participated since he joined the company for,  1,200,000, being the sum agreed by actuaries as the value of those benefits. 
In addition the company met the cost of Mr B Clare receiving legal and financial advice and the cost of providing life cover for nine
months equivalent to that to which he would have been entitled under the funded unapproved death benefit scheme in which he
participated.
Directors' remuneration report