 Audit committee report
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising Mr. Hurst-Brown (Chairman), Mr.
Dobson and Mr. Posford, all independent, non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee meets at least biannually and is responsible for:
  The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and related disclosures, based on
adequate books, records and internal controls and selection and consistent application of
appropriate accounting policies;
  The appropriateness of the Company's internal financial controls;
  The independent auditors' qualifications, independence, and performance; and
  The compliance by the Company with legal and regulatory requirements.
Remuneration committee
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee comprising Mr. Hurst-Brown (Chairman),
Mr. Dobson and Mr. Posford, all independent non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least annually and is responsible for:
  Reviewing the performance of the CEO and other Executive Directors and senior
management of the Company and determines their remuneration and the basis of their
service agreements with due regard to the interests of Shareholders;
  The payment of any bonuses to the CEO, other Executive Directors and senior management;
and
  Making recommendations to the Board with respect to equity-based incentive plans and to
act as a preparatory body for the Board of Directors in the management of any Company
award and option plans.
Corporate Governance
10 Directors' remuneration and service contracts
On 18 May 2005, all the Company's Directors each entered into a service agreement with the
Company.
The remuneration of the Directors for the period ended 30 June 2005 was as follows:
Basic salary
 
David Harry Williamson Dobson  
Peter William Fleming 5,000
Christopher Nigel Hurst - Brown  
Howard Kevin Obee 30,000
Stephen James Douglas Posford  
35,000
Pensions
The Company does not operate a pension scheme for its Directors or employees.
Corporate Governance continued
11