 2
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman's letter
2008 was a year we will all remember. There are  
few precedents in history for such a rapid and dramatic 
change in the business environment. In the space of a 
few months we went from a record oil price of more  
than $140 per barrel, and BP reporting two consecutive 
quarters of record profits for the group, to a recession  
in most of our major markets. Despite this changing 
environment, I am glad to say that BP is in an enviably 
strong position in terms of its balance sheet, its assets 
and its people.
That strength is in no small part due to the period 
of critical self-examination the group has undergone 
since 2005. The resulting strategy, devised by Tony 
Hayward and his team and endorsed by the board,  
is already bearing fruit and has put us in a much better 
position to weather the savage economic storms we 
now face.
The price of oil ended the year at its lowest level 
for more than four years. That has obviously affected  
our financial performance.  The board understands the 
importance of the dividend to investors in these difficult 
times and, despite the weaker environment, we have 
held the quarterly dividend to be paid in March at  
14 cents per share, compared with 13.525 cents per 
share for the same quarter of 2007. In sterling terms,  
the quarterly dividend is 9.818 pence per share, 
compared with 6.813 pence per share for the same 
quarter of 2007. During the year $2.9 billion of shares 
were repurchased for cancellation, compared with  
$7.5 billion in 2007. In response to feedback from 
investors we are now weighting shareholder returns 
towards dividends, as opposed to buybacks.
The search for my successor has unfortunately 
taken longer than originally expected, in part due to  
the turbulent business environment. It is important that 
we find the right person and we envisage making an 
announcement in the coming months. In the meantime  
I have agreed, at the board's request, to stay on as 
chairman and will seek re-election.
So, this will be my last annual general meeting.  
It has truly been an honour for me to serve 12 years as 
chairman - and before that as a director - of what is one 
of the world's great enterprises. During that time I have 
seen BP constantly evolve and, by most measures, 
nearly double in size. But the underlying principles of  
the international oil company's business model continue 
to endure. BP and its peers make the energy markets 
work, by forming partnerships with resource-holding 
governments and applying our technology to bringing 
supplies of energy to millions of customers, every day. 
2008 has been a reminder that the world economy 
depends on our efforts.
Gathering  
pace
Peter Sutherland Chairman
24 February 2009
Highlights
Dramatic change in business environment.   
BP in strong position.   