 3
      BP and its peers make the energy 
markets work, by forming partnerships with 
resource-holding governments and applying 
our technology to bringing supplies of energy 
to millions of customers, every day. 2008 has 
been a reminder that the world economy 
depends on our efforts. 
Throughout the year the board has supported Tony and 
his executive team in reforming the way in which the 
group works to ensure that everyone within BP is clear 
on its long-term purpose. It is vital that the role of the 
international oil company is defined and understood both 
inside and outside the organization. While sticking to its 
principles, BP needs to be flexible in the manner in which 
business is approached, developing a diverse portfolio of 
projects, with a robust cost structure, enabling the group 
to perform throughout the cycle.
All our activities need to take place against a very 
clear view of risk. Events during the year have powerfully 
reinforced the need for boards to have a very clear 
understanding of the risks their businesses face. I believe 
the BP board and its committees have set a high 
standard in this regard and we continue to improve  
the manner in which we understand and evaluate  
risks whether they be strategic, geopolitical, compliance 
or operational. No business can be without risk. Indeed 
it is by taking strategic and commercial risks that we  
earn a return.
We have had some notable operational and 
engineering successes in the year, which are described 
within this Annual Report and Accounts. There are 
several I could mention, including restoring economic 
capability at the Texas City refinery, but I would 
particularly like to focus on the Gulf of Mexico, which  
is a proving to be a showcase for BP's deepwater  
skills and technology. BP is now the number one 
producer there and Thunder Horse, the world's largest 
semi-submersible platform, is on track to reach capacity 
of about 280,000boe/d in 2009. Thunder Horse is 
expected to be the second biggest producing field in the 
US and is a powerful symbol of what BP can achieve.
I am pleased we have reached an amicable settlement 
with our partners in our Russian joint venture, TNK-BP. 
This means BP has retained 50% ownership of what is 
an important option in one of the world's most prolific 
hydrocarbon provinces.
I would not normally single out individual 
executives, but I do want to pay tribute to the work  
that Bob Dudley has done as chief executive of  
TNK-BP. During his five-year tenure he transformed 
TNK-BP and it now leads the Russian oil industry on  
the basis of production growth, reserves replacement 
and total shareholder return. I am delighted that Bob  
will join the BP board in April. As a managing director,  
he will assume responsibility for broad oversight of  
the group's activities in the Americas and Asia. We had a 
settled board for much of 2008, but we expect Bob to be 
the first of several new appointments as we refresh the 
cadre of non-executive directors through 2009.
In the past 12 years the energy industry has 
consolidated and taken major technical steps forward, 
beginning production in some of the more remote areas 
of the world, such as the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and 
the Russian Arctic. Our role has been defined and 
redefined and BP has led the way in accepting the need 
to tackle the threat of climate change. Throughout that 
time the BP board has had outstanding members and, 
without exception, I have worked with a group of 
extremely talented executives.
I would like to thank all my board and executive 
colleagues past and present, and all BP's employees.  
I would also like to thank the two company secretaries, 
Judith Hanratty and David Jackson, who have provided 
me with admirable support during my term. Finally,  
I thank all our shareholders for their support. During  
2009 we are celebrating BP's centenary and I am 
confident that BP can face the next 100 years with  
pride and a renewed sense of purpose. 
 