 This directors' report has been approved by the board and signed
on its behalf by:
Grant Dawson
General Counsel and Company Secretary
24 February 2005
Registered office: 
Millstream
Maidenhead Road
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 5GD
Company registered in England and Wales No. 3033654
Composition and role of the remuneration committee
The board's remuneration committee comprises the independent
non-executive directors and is chaired by Patricia Mann. Helen
Alexander and Paul Walsh were members of the committee
throughout 2004. Mary Francis and Paul Rayner became members
of the committee when they joined the board. Roger Carr was a
member until he became chairman of the company in May 2004
and Sir Michael Perry and Robert Tobin were members until they
stepped down from the board.
The committee makes recommendations to the board, 
within formal terms of reference, on the policy and framework 
of executive remuneration and its cost to the company. The
committee is also responsible for the implementation of
remuneration policy and determining specific remuneration
packages for each of the executive directors. It has access to
advice provided by the group head of reward (Mike New), the
group human resources director (Anne Minto), the general counsel
and company secretary (Grant Dawson), the chief executive 
(Sir Roy Gardner) and external consultants. During 2004, the
committee consulted, but did not formally appoint, Towers Perrin
and Mercers, who provided written reports on executive
compensation to assist in the formulation of the committee's
recommendations. Towers Perrin also provided advice to the
group on retirement benefits and non-executive directors' fees
during the year.
This report, which will be submitted to the forthcoming AGM
for approval, explains how the company has applied the principles
in the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance that relate
to directors' remuneration during the period. No director is
involved in the determination of, or votes on any matter relating
to, his or her own remuneration.
Framework and policy on executive directors' remuneration
The group's remuneration policy is designed to provide
competitive reward for its executive directors and other senior
executives, taking into account the company's performance, the
markets in which the group operates and pay and conditions
elsewhere in the group.
In constructing the remuneration packages, the committee
aims to achieve a balance between fixed and variable
compensation for each director. Accordingly, a significant
proportion of the remuneration package depends on the
attainment of demanding performance objectives, both short 
and long-term. In agreeing the level of base salaries and the
annual performance bonus scheme, the committee takes into
consideration the potential maximum remuneration that executives
could receive. The committee reviews the packages and varies
individual elements when appropriate from year to year.
To recognise performance against agreed objectives, the
committee has put in place an annual bonus scheme for executive
directors similar to that applying to other senior executives in 
the group. Annual bonuses for executive directors are only paid 
on the achievement of demanding individual, business and
corporate objectives.
Under both the executive share option scheme (ESOS) and the
long term incentive scheme (LTIS) the current practice is to make
conditional awards each year up to a maximum of 200% and 75%
of base salary respectively. These schemes are designed to align
the interests of executive directors and other senior executives
with the longer term interests of shareholders by rewarding them
for delivering increased shareholder value.
As a matter of policy, all executive directors and those senior
executives immediately below board level are expected to retain 
a minimum shareholding in the company at least equal in value 
to the executive's base salary.
Executive directors also participate in a contributory, final
salary pension scheme (details of which are given on page 33).
The committee believes that these arrangements, which are
further explained below, are important in providing a potential
remuneration package that will attract, retain and continue 
to motivate executive directors and other senior executives 
in a marketplace that is challenging and competitive in both
commercial and human resource terms. It is intended that the
current remuneration policy, of which the ESOS and LTIS 
elements have been approved by shareholders, will continue 
for 2005 and succeeding years.
In 2004, the total compensation of the executive 
directors, detailed on page 30, consisted of components 
in the following proportions:
Note: Salary and benefits are the actual amounts received during 2004; 
pension is the increase in actual transfer value for 2004 over the notional
transfer value for 2003 (i.e. adjusted as explained in note (iii) on page 33) less, 
in respect of Phil Bentley, a transfer in from a previous employer explained 
in note (vi), less the director's contributions during 2004; performance bonus 
is that payable in respect of 2004; and ESOS and LTIS are the estimated 
value of the awards made in 2004 based on a Black Scholes model, provided
that all performance conditions are met in full at the end of the relevant
performance periods.
Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 27
Remuneration report
Phil
Bentley
Mark
Clare
Sir Roy
Gardner
Roger
Wood
Relative proportions of the components 
of executive directors' remuneration: 2004
Fixed components
Variable components
Benefits Salary
Performance Bonus
Pension
ESOS + LTIS
100
80
40
60
20
0
CT001_ p23-p34_vAW.qxd  13/3/05  12:12 pm  Page 27