 This directors' report has been approved by the board and signed
on its behalf by:
Grant Dawson
General Counsel and Company Secretary
24 February 2005
Registered office: 
Millstream
Maidenhead Road
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 5GD
Company registered in England and Wales No. 3033654
Composition and role of the remuneration committee
The board's remuneration committee comprises the independent
non-executive directors and is chaired by Patricia Mann. Helen
Alexander and Paul Walsh were members of the committee
throughout 2004. Mary Francis and Paul Rayner became members
of the committee when they joined the board. Roger Carr was a
member until he became chairman of the company in May 2004
and Sir Michael Perry and Robert Tobin were members until they
stepped down from the board.
The committee makes recommendations to the board, 
within formal terms of reference, on the policy and framework 
of executive remuneration and its cost to the company. The
committee is also responsible for the implementation of
remuneration policy and determining specific remuneration
packages for each of the executive directors. It has access to
advice provided by the group head of reward (Mike New), the
group human resources director (Anne Minto), the general counsel
and company secretary (Grant Dawson), the chief executive 
(Sir Roy Gardner) and external consultants. During 2004, the
committee consulted, but did not formally appoint, Towers Perrin
and Mercers, who provided written reports on executive
compensation to assist in the formulation of the committee's
recommendations. Towers Perrin also provided advice to the
group on retirement benefits and non-executive directors' fees
during the year.
This report, which will be submitted to the forthcoming AGM
for approval, explains how the company has applied the principles
in the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance that relate
to directors' remuneration during the period. No director is
involved in the determination of, or votes on any matter relating
to, his or her own remuneration.
Framework and policy on executive directors' remuneration
The group's remuneration policy is designed to provide
competitive reward for its executive directors and other senior
executives, taking into account the company's performance, the
markets in which the group operates and pay and conditions
elsewhere in the group.
In constructing the remuneration packages, the committee
aims to achieve a balance between fixed and variable
compensation for each director. Accordingly, a significant
proportion of the remuneration package depends on the
attainment of demanding performance objectives, both short 
and long-term. In agreeing the level of base salaries and the
annual performance bonus scheme, the committee takes into
consideration the potential maximum remuneration that executives
could receive. The committee reviews the packages and varies
individual elements when appropriate from year to year.
To recognise performance against agreed objectives, the
committee has put in place an annual bonus scheme for executive
directors similar to that applying to other senior executives in 
the group. Annual bonuses for executive directors are only paid 
on the achievement of demanding individual, business and
corporate objectives.
Under both the executive share option scheme (ESOS) and the
long term incentive scheme (LTIS) the current practice is to make
conditional awards each year up to a maximum of 200% and 75%
of base salary respectively. These schemes are designed to align
the interests of executive directors and other senior executives
with the longer term interests of shareholders by rewarding them
for delivering increased shareholder value.
As a matter of policy, all executive directors and those senior
executives immediately below board level are expected to retain 
a minimum shareholding in the company at least equal in value 
to the executive's base salary.
Executive directors also participate in a contributory, final
salary pension scheme (details of which are given on page 33).
The committee believes that these arrangements, which are
further explained below, are important in providing a potential
remuneration package that will attract, retain and continue 
to motivate executive directors and other senior executives 
in a marketplace that is challenging and competitive in both
commercial and human resource terms. It is intended that the
current remuneration policy, of which the ESOS and LTIS 
elements have been approved by shareholders, will continue 
for 2005 and succeeding years.
In 2004, the total compensation of the executive 
directors, detailed on page 30, consisted of components 
in the following proportions:
Note: Salary and benefits are the actual amounts received during 2004; 
pension is the increase in actual transfer value for 2004 over the notional
transfer value for 2003 (i.e. adjusted as explained in note (iii) on page 33) less, 
in respect of Phil Bentley, a transfer in from a previous employer explained 
in note (vi), less the director's contributions during 2004; performance bonus 
is that payable in respect of 2004; and ESOS and LTIS are the estimated 
value of the awards made in 2004 based on a Black Scholes model, provided
that all performance conditions are met in full at the end of the relevant
performance periods.
Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 27
Remuneration report
Phil
Bentley
Mark
Clare
Sir Roy
Gardner
Roger
Wood
Relative proportions of the components 
of executive directors' remuneration: 2004
Fixed components
Variable components
Benefits Salary
Performance Bonus
Pension
ESOS + LTIS
100
80
40
60
20
0
CT001_ p23-p34_vAW.qxd  13/3/05  12:12 pm  Page 27 28 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc
Remuneration report continued
The total emoluments of the executive directors are disclosed 
on page 30. The total emoluments of the six senior executives
immediately below board level for 2004, calculated on the same
basis as those of the executive directors, fell into the following bands:
Note: Two of the senior executives served for only eleven months of the year.
Components of remuneration
Base salary
The committee seeks to establish a base salary for each executive
director and other senior executives determined by individual
performance and having regard to market salary levels for similar
positions in comparable companies derived from independent
sources. Base salaries are reviewed annually. Base salary is the
only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Annual performance bonus
At the beginning of each year, the committee reviews the bonus
scheme to ensure that it remains competitive in the marketplace,
continues to incentivise the executive directors and other senior
executives and aligns their interests with those of shareholders.
For 2004, the maximum bonus payable to executive directors,
should every single element of every objective be achieved in full,
was 100% of base salary. In 2004, 50% of the maximum bonus
achievable related to financial performance targets, 25% to
customer and employee satisfaction and 25% to personal
performance. For executive directors with specific business
responsibilities, the scheme is structured to reflect the
performance of their business as well as that of the group. For
2004, no bonus at all is payable to an individual whose agreed
minimum personal targets were not met. The maximum bonus
payable to other senior executives, assuming all objectives are
achieved in full, reduces on a sliding scale normally from 80% to
zero, with the three categories of target in the same proportions
as for the executive directors.
For 2005, the committee has changed the bonus structure so
that 65% of the maximum achievable bonus relates to financial
performance targets, 25% to customer and employee satisfaction
and 10% to personal performance. To reflect this increased
emphasis on financial performance, a bonus will now be forfeited
only if overall performance is deemed to be unsatisfactory.
Executive share option scheme (ESOS)
If and to the extent that performance conditions are satisfied,
options granted under the ESOS become exercisable three years
after the date of grant and remain so until the tenth anniversary of
grant. Performance conditions are based on the extent to which
growth in the company's earnings per share (EPS growth) exceeds
growth in the Retail Prices Index (RPI growth) over a three-year
performance period. EPS is calculated as fully diluted earnings
per share adjusted for exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation. The committee believes that this method of
calculating EPS provides an objective, independent and verifiable
measure of the company's performance.
In respect of each grant of options, the committee has determined
that, for the option to be exercisable in full, EPS growth must
exceed RPI growth by 18 percentage points or more over the
three-year performance period. No part of the option grant will 
be exercisable if EPS growth fails to exceed RPI growth by at
least 9 percentage points over the performance period. The
proportion of the option grant exercisable by the executive will
increase on a sliding scale between 40% and 100% if EPS growth
exceeds RPI growth by between 9 and 18 percentage points over
the performance period.
Options granted from 2001 to March 2004 under the ESOS
permitted the company's EPS to be measured annually for a
further two years from the date of grant of the options, with the
performance conditions increasing proportionately. Having
reviewed market practice regarding the retesting of performance
measures, the committee removed this element in respect of all
option grants from September 2004. The committee continues 
to believe that, in relation to the ESOS, EPS growth in excess of
RPI growth is the most appropriate measure for determining the
increase in value delivered to shareholders by the company's
executive directors and other senior executives. The committee
reviews the appropriateness of the performance measure and the
specific targets set when considering each new grant of options.
During 2005, it will consider the impact on EPS of the change 
in reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards,
some uncertainties of which are currently unresolved, in order 
to determine whether EPS will remain the most appropriate and
consistent performance measure for this scheme.
In March 2004, options were granted to each executive 
director equal to 200% of his base salary and, at the same or
lower rates, to certain other senior executives. Details of options
granted to executive directors are shown on page 32. It is the
company's intention that new shares be issued, subject to
institutional guidelines, to satisfy the exercise of options granted
under the ESOS.
Long term incentive scheme (LTIS)
Allocations of shares are made annually to executive directors 
and other senior executives under the LTIS. These awards are
subject to challenging performance conditions based on the
company's total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the returns 
of a comparator group. This ensures that the executives are not
rewarded unless the company has outperformed its peers in
creating shareholder value. The committee has determined that, 
for the purpose of the LTIS, the most appropriate comparator group
for the company is the companies comprising the FTSE 100 at the
start of the relevant performance period (the LTIS comparator
group). The committee reviews the appropriateness of the
performance measure and the specific target set when considering
each new allocation of shares under the LTIS.
Allocations made prior to May 2001 were subject to a
performance period of either three or four years (at the
participant's choice), followed by a retention period of two years.
Changes to these arrangements were approved at the 2001 AGM.
Allocations made from May 2001 are released to the participant
under normal circumstances after the three-year performance
period, provided, and to the extent that, the performance
conditions have been met. However, prior to the release of share
allocations, the committee reviews whether the extent to which
the performance condition has been achieved is a genuine
reflection of the company's financial performance. In assessing
the extent of satisfaction of the performance condition, the
committee uses data provided by Alithos Ltd.
The actual number of shares released to the participant
depends on the company's TSR over the performance period
relative to the LTIS comparator group. The maximum annual
No. of senior executives
1
-
1
3
1
Bands  000
800-900
700-800
600-700
500-600
400-500
CT001_ p23-p34_vAW.qxd  13/3/05  12:12 pm  Page 28