  
 
 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2013 13 
The Board presents the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 August 2013.  
 
The Remuneration Committee  
The Remuneration Committee consists of two independent non-executive directors: Lord Birdwood (Chairman) and Mr Harris.    
 
Remuneration of Directors  
Each executive director is paid a basic salary and is entitled to benefits, namely payments of pension contributions to a suitable 
scheme of his choice, the option of the use of a company car, fuel and/or mileage allowance and participation in a private health 
care scheme.  Where a director chooses not to take a pension allowance, an equivalent sum is added to his gross salary. 
 
Each of the executive directors is also entitled under the terms of his service contract to a bonus in the event that specified 
performance targets are met or exceeded. These targets require increases in earnings per share in each financial year of the Group, 
adjusted to exclude certain exceptional non-trading items. Messers Diver, Shah and Kissane are also entitled to a further bonus of 
4%, 2% and 1% respectively of the consolidated, pre-tax profits of the Group in the event that a specified minimum target is met 
or exceeded.  
 
The basic salaries referred to above are reviewed every year by the Remuneration Committee. No director has a service contract  
incorporating a notice period of more than 12 months.  
 
The Company believes that share ownership by executive directors and senior executives strengthens the links between their 
personal interests and those of the shareholders. All executive directors are entitled to participate in the Company's 2003 
Enterprise Management Incentive Share Option Scheme and its 2006 Executive Share Option Plan, details of which may be 
found in note 28.  
 
The non-executive directors are appointed for a fixed term expiring at each Annual General Meeting of the Company, when they 
may offer themselves for re-election. Each of the non-executive directors is entitled to fees, currently at the rate of  25,000 per 
annum (2012:  25,000), plus expenses, without any right to compensation on early termination.  
 
Details of the directors' remuneration are disclosed in note 5. 
 
On behalf of the Board  
 
Lord Birdwood  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee  
3 December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT      