 10
EVOLVING THE STRUCTURE
Our strategy is to maintain a fully integrated
business structure which has the flexibility to
adapt over time to support both our clients'
needs and the Company's continued
development. In line with this strategy, and
building on our progress in vertical market
sectors, we are introducing a sector-based
Practice Structure which will increase further
our focus on the specific needs of the markets
in which we operate. It will also provide a
sound framework for the next stage of growth
within our target markets. Three Practices are
being established: Banking, Finance and
Media; Retail, Manufacturing, Distribution
and Technology; and Government, Energy
& Utilities and Legal.
We have continued to refine our set of
differentiated client service streams, which
operate alongside our broadly-based business
and technical consulting activities. Where
necessary we have realigned these cross-
sector Service Lines to maintain maximum
concentration on the areas of highest demand
in today's market. Our four Service Lines
are Business Transformation, Project &
Programme Management, Collaborative
Solutions and Trustworthy Computing.
OUR TEAM
People make the difference and it continues
to be our people that distinguish Charteris.
The challenges faced by companies in a harsh
climate dictate selectivity in their choice of
consultants - with the emphasis on genuine
experience, adaptability and delivery track
record. Whether it be in business or technical
consulting, these are the characteristics and
qualities that define Charteris consultants.
We share a passion for results and we make
a difference for our clients. 
Both in client delivery and in building the
Charteris business, our very experienced team
has again this year demonstrated tremendous
dedication and determination. This has been
fundamental to our success. I would like to
thank everyone for their loyalty, tenacity 
and sheer hard work.
Alongside our own team of 107 people we
have continued to build a group of highly
skilled associates. In view of the turbulence
in the market this year, the Company has
been cautious about further increases in the
number of employees and has made greater
use of members of the associate group.
Whilst this approach has had a small 
impact on operating margin it is a further
demonstration of our adaptability in
changing market conditions.
GOING FORWARD
We do not underestimate the challenge of
market conditions. Our results this year
underline our capability and our resolve in
a more difficult climate. Charteris continues
to be an ambitious Company. As ever, this
ambition is grounded in realism. We remain
clear about what we are and what we want
to achieve. Charteris will hold to its core
strategy of delivering the highest quality
experience-based consulting with a practical,
no-nonsense approach. 
The profile and reputation of Charteris
position us well to expand our team of high
quality professionals as economic conditions
improve. Our ability to offer first class
professional services but at better value and
greater versatility than the larger firms will
continue to differentiate Charteris in a
competitive market.
David Pickering
Chief Executive
30 September 2002
Chief Executive's review
Continued 
CHARTERIS ANNUAL REPORT 2002
Our ability to offer
first class professional
services at better value
and greater versatility
than the larger firms
will continue to
differentiate Charteris
in a competitive
market.
Professional staff
Principal Consultant 50%
Senior Consultant 17%
Consultant 4%
Senior Developer 20%
Developer 9%