 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. Having taken advice from 
the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair , balanced 
and understandable and that it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's 
performance, business and strategy .
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such 
financial statements for each financial year . Under that law 
the directors are required to prepare the group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 
chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under 
company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss 
of the company for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that directors:
 	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 	 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
 	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity's financial 
position and financial performance; and
 	 make an assessment of the company's ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors' responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; 
2. the strategic report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and 
3. the annual report, fair review of the business and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair , balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, 
business model and strategy .
By order of the Board
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
26 March 2014
Mark Smith
Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director
26 March 2014
Directors' Responsibilities Statement
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   53
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report
Financial Statements