 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee's Statement 
can be found on page 54. This section forms part of the 
Directors' Remuneration Report.
Membership, meetings and attendance in 2013
Meetings scheduled 4
Meetings held 4
Attendance
Rodger Hughes 
(1)
4 of 4
Lord Davies (appointed 05/12/2013) 1 of 1
Clare Gilmartin (appointed 05/12/2013) 1 of 1
Hon. Richard Alston (resigned 05/12/2013) 
(2)
3 of 3
Paul Richardson (resigned 26/03/2014) 
(3)
2 of 3
(1)
 Chairman of Committee
(2)
 Resigned as a Director on 31 December 2013
(3)
 Resigned as a Director on 26 March 2014
When required the Chief Executive, Christopher 
Satterthwaite, and the Chief Operating Officer and Finance 
Director , Mark Smith, attend meetings but are not members. 
During the year Lord Davies attended two meetings as 
an advisor prior to being appointed to the Committee. 
No Director is in attendance when their own personal 
remuneration is discussed.
Membership of the Committee
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman 
of the Committee and the Group Chairman at regular 
intervals and where appropriate they recommend new 
appointments to the Nominations Committee for assessment 
and onward recommendation to the Board. The Committee 
is comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors, 
which is the minimum membership required under the Terms 
of Reference. Two members constitute a quorum. 
Summary of the role of the Remuneration Committee
Rodger Hughes is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Committee measures the performance of the 
Executive Directors and of other key members of the 
senior management as a prelude to recommending their 
annual remuneration. Performance is measured against 
key performance indicators set by the Committee at the 
beginning of the year (for further details see page 68).
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the 
operation and use of the Company's share based incentive 
schemes. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
is recommended by the Chairman and Chief Executive and 
takes account of the time spent on Board and Committee 
matters. Final decisions are made by the Board but no 
Director takes part in any discussion regarding his or her 
own remuneration.
The powers, role and responsibilities delegated to the 
Committee by the Board are formalised in the Committee 
terms of reference (available at www.chimeplc.com)
The Remuneration Committee in 2013
The Committee met on four occasions during the year , 
discharging its responsibilities through the following 
activities: 
 	 undertook a review of executive remuneration including 
consultating with shareholders and drafting of proposals 
to be put before the 2013 AGM.
 	 agreed the level of bonus awards to the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary for 2012;
 	 reviewed and approved the maturity of the 2010 grant of 
the Deferred Share Plan;
 	 agreed the maturity of the 2008 grant of the Savings 
Related Share Option Scheme;
 	 agreed the 2013 grant of options under the Savings 
Related Share Option Scheme;
 	 considered and agreed the levels of participation and 
performance targets of a grant of award under the 2010 
Co-Investment Plan;
 	 considered and agreed the key performance indicators for 
each of the Executive Directors and Company Secretary 
for 2013;
 	 agreed Executive Directors' and Company Secretary's 
salary levels for 2013;
 	 considered appropriate salary levels for new appointees to 
the Board and made recommendations to the Nominations 
Committee;
 	 considered proposals for incentive schemes for senior 
management of the Company;
 	 reviewed details of the remuneration of higher paid 
employees seeking justification for any significant 
changes; and
 	 reappointed Towers Watson as executive remuneration 
consultants to the Company .
During the year the Committee took additional objective and 
independent advice on the Remuneration Review and 
the proposals put to the shareholders at the 2013 AGM 
from Deloitte.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   49
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors' Remuneration Report
Financial Statements