 Directors' Remuneration Report 
This report sets out the Group's remuneration policies for 
Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
2013 saw the membership of the Committee change with 
our Chairman, Lord Davies, and Clare Gilmartin joining as 
members in December . Richard Alston and Paul Richardson 
stepped down at that time and I would like to personally 
thank them for their valuable contributions during their time 
on the Committee.
Like many companies we have worked to develop our 
remuneration policies during 2013 in preparation for new 
reporting requirements. We have built on the remuneration 
review undertaken last year , the results of which were put to 
shareholders at last year's AGM. To summarise our work:
Policy
Following the change of leadership we sought to put in 
place remuneration policies for Executive Directors aligned 
to strategy whilst retaining the link to the creation of 
shareholder value. The resulting changes included a move to 
a greater proportion of variable pay , the deferral of 50% of 
bonuses in restricted shares and the setting of shareholding 
requirements for each of the Directors.
Shareholders have different views and we have attempted 
to reflect the position of the majority . Our proposals last 
year were modified in the light of the views expressed in 
our consultations with shareholders. The policy being put 
forward for approval at the forthcoming AGM does not 
contain any major changes from the 2013 review but some 
of the details have been modified further to reflect the 
comments received and to provide additional clarity .
2013
Last year we set challenging targets for the Executive 
Directors and the profit target was not met, despite four of 
the five divisions outperforming. Based on performance 
against the other KPI targets we awarded 33.3% of the 
maximum bonus having regard to the broader context, 
including unanticipated events such as the successful 
acquisition of JMI.
2014
As set out in the report which follows, the Executive 
Directors' salaries, pension contributions and general level 
of benefits will remain unchanged from 2013, and bonus 
performance targets have been set, 50% relating to profits 
and 50% based on KPIs.
The 2011 Co Investment Plan award will vest on 1 September 
2014, at 34.3% of the maximum. We shall make awards 
under the Performance Share Plan in 2014 of 200% of salary 
for Christopher Satterthwaite and 175% to Mark Smith with 
stretching EPS and TSR targets weighted equally .
The future
Going forward we hope the structure we have put in 
place will stand the test of time but we shall keep it under 
review, monitoring developments in the marketplace (with 
the assistance of Towers Watson). We value the views 
of shareholders and I would welcome comments and/or 
questions at the forthcoming AGM or at any time.
Rodger Hughes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
26 March 2014
Introduction to the Directors' Remuneration Report
54   Chime Communications plc