 1700 Group Plc Page 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 
Directors' remuneration report 
For the period from 9 May 2007 to 31 March 2008 
 
 
Scope and membership of Remuneration Committee  
The Remuneration Committee was established upon listing on the AIM of the London 
Stock Exchange in January 2008. The Remuneration Committee meets not less than 
twice a year and comprises David Mansfield and James Hyde. 
 
The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to review, on behalf of the Board, 
the remuneration policy for the executive directors and other senior executives and 
to determine the level of remuneration, incentives and other benefits, compensation  
payments and the terms of employment of the executive directors and other senior 
executives. It seeks to provide a remuneration package that aligns the interests of 
executive directors with that of the shareholders. 
 
The Committee reviews the remuneration of the executive directors with regard to 
the need to maintain a balance between the constituent elements of salary, incentive 
and other benefits.  
 
Remuneration policy  
The objective of the Group's remuneration policy is to attract and retain 
management with the appropriate professional, managerial and operational expertise 
necessary to realise the Group's objectives as well as to establish a framework for 
remunerating all employees.  
 
It is the Group's policy that all executive directors' service contracts contain a 
minimum 6 months' notice period. The non-executive directors also have letters of 
appointment with the Group with minimum six months' notice period. 
 
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board. The 
non-executive directors do not receive any pension or other benefits, other than out-
of-pocket expenses, from the Group, nor do they participate in any of the bonus or 
share option schemes. 
 
The remuneration agreed by the Committee for the executive directors contains the 
following elements: a base salary and benefits, a quarterly and an annual bonus 
reflecting Group and individual performance.  
 
The following sections provide an outline of the Group's remuneration policy.  
 
Base salary and benefits  
Service contracts exist for each director that set contractual obligations. The 
Committee will establish salaries and benefits by reference to those prevailing in the 
employment market generally for executive directors of comparable status and 
market value.  
 
  1700 Group Plc Page 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 
Directors' remuneration report (continued) 
For the period from 9 May 2007 to 31 March 2008 
 
 
Annual bonus plan  
The Committee firmly believes in the effectiveness of incentive bonuses. Accordingly 
every employee of the Group is in some form of incentive scheme. Annual bonuses 
for the executive directors are based on the division of a pool of profits earned 
during the financial year.  
 
Share option schemes  
The Board has adopted an EMI Share Options Scheme (the Scheme ) by which 
eligible employees may be granted options to purchase the Company's shares at a 
price determined at the time of grant.  The options are subject to performance 
criteria and vest over a three-year period.  In total the options granted under the 
Scheme will not exceed ten per cent. of the issued share capital of the Company. 
 
Emoluments  
The aggregate emoluments of the directors for the period were as follows:  
 
 Salaries Other 
benefits 
Total 
       
    
David Mansfield 9,000 - 9,000 
Stephen Hyde 25,000 3,000 28,000 
Andrew Mintern 3,000 - 3,000 
James Hyde 6,250 - 6,250 
Lynne Willoughby 4,125 - 4,125 
    
 47,375 3,000 50,375 
 
Stephen Hyde is the highest paid director.  No bonuses were paid in the period. 
 
Outside appointments  
The Remuneration Committee recognises that Non-Executive Director roles are a 
significant benefit in broadening executive's experience. Subject to review in each 
case, the Remuneration Committee's general policy is that Directors may accept 
Executive or Non-executive Directorships with other companies, so long as there is 
no conflict of interest and their effectiveness is not impaired.  
 
 
 
 