 10 Alba Mineral Resources plc Annual Report 2006
Report on Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee fixes the remuneration of the executive
and non-executive directors.
Service Contracts
The two executive directors are engaged under service contracts, and the
non-executive director under a letter of appointment. The service contract
for Nigel Duxbury was effective from the date of admission of the ordinary
shares to trading on AIM for an initial term of twelve months and
thereafter terminable by either party on six months' notice. The service
contract for Michael Nott was effective from 1 September 2006
terminable on three months during the initial period of three months and
terminable on six months' notice thereafter. The letter of appointment for
Sandy Archibald was effective from the date of admission of the ordinary
shares to trading on AIM for an initial term of twelve months and
thereafter terminable by either party on six months' notice.
Share Options
The Company believes that share ownership by executive directors and
senior executives strengthens the links between their personal interest and
those of investors and the Board intend to consider the adoption of a
share option scheme in due course.
Directors' Interests
The directors' interests in the ordinary shares and warrants of the
Company are set out in the Directors' Report on page 8.
Directors' Remuneration
The directors' remuneration information is set out in note 4 to the financial
statements.
By order of the Board
Nigel Duxbury
Secretary
14 May 2007
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
Directors' Responsibilities for the Financial Statements
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial
period and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period. In preparing
those financial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed;
and
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in
business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for the system of internal control and safeguarding the assets
of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
136 13627 24/05/2007 Proof 3
13627AlbaAR6:13627AlbaAR6  24/5/07  11:44  Page 10