 Albion PLC 
 
 
11 
Report of the remuneration committee 
 
 
The committee 
 
The remuneration committee consists of three non-executive directors, namely Mr T Fulford, Chairman, Mr JR Fetherston 
and Mr WA Moore.   
 
Compliance 
 
The committee has given full consideration to those principles and provisions of the Combined Code which relate to 
directors' remuneration. 
 
Executive policy 
 
The committee aims to ensure that remuneration packages are sufficient to attract, hold and motivate executive directors.  
Remuneration packages are reviewed annually. 
 
Executive remuneration 
 
The main elements of executive remuneration are as follows: 
 
Basic salary 
 
In determining basic salaries, consideration is given to levels in comparative companies.  As with other employees, 
increases are normally annual and relate closely to the current rate of inflation. 
 
Performance related bonuses 
 
Bonuses are contractual and are payable on profits achieved by the Group over an agreed base figure. The pensionable 
nature of the bonuses provides additional incentive for the directors to perform at the highest levels. 
 
Benefits in kind 
 
In addition, executives are provided with the use of a company car and personal medical cover, together with other smaller 
benefits in line with normal company practice.  Benefits in kind are not pensionable. 
 
Pension 
 
Of the executive directors at 30 September 2002, only CJ Wood was a member of the Albion Limited Pension Scheme.  
The Scheme is a contributory, Inland Revenue approved, final salary scheme providing a pension for directors of two-
thirds of pensionable salary at age 60. 
 
TC Rogers who was appointed to the board on 1 October 2001 participates in the company defined contribution scheme. 
 
Long term benefits 
 
The committee believe that share ownership by directors and employees strengthens the link between their personal interests 
and those of shareholders.  This is achieved through the operation of the Company's share option plan which consists of 
approved and unapproved schemes. 
 
Options under these schemes will be granted on the recommendation of the remuneration committee.  Options may be granted 
over unissued shares or shares held in a trust.  Options granted will be subject to such objective performance conditions as the 
committee sees fit and which must be fulfilled before the options can be exercised. 
 
Directors' share options 
 
None of the directors held share options in the company at 30 September 2002 (2001: nil). 
  Albion PLC 
 
 
12 
Service agreements 
 
Currently the managing director has a three year rolling service contract with the company. The Remuneration Committee 
consider that it is inappropriate to seek to renegotiate the contract length as this would involve making payments to alter 
the contract terms. The finance director has a one year rolling service contract. All such contracts terminate when the 
director in question reaches age 60. The length of service contracts continues to be reviewed by the Committee. The 
Committee, where it considers it to be appropriate, applies the principle of mitigation to any compensation payable on the 
termination of service contracts. 
 
Non-executive directors 
 
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board.  As with other employees, increases are 
normally annual and comply with the National Wage Award for the industry. 
 
Non-executive appointments are subject to election and re-election at the relevant Annual General Meeting. 
 
Non-executive directors do not have service agreements, nor do they receive grants under the executive share option 
scheme.  Their remuneration is non-pensionable. 
 
Directors' remuneration 
 
Details of individual directors' remuneration are set out in note 6 to the financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
T Fulford 
Chairman 
Remuneration Committee 
24 January 2003 
 
 