 Albion PLC 
 
 
14 
Employees 
 
The policy of the Company and the Group is to consult and discuss with employees those matters likely to affect employees' 
interests. 
 
The policy of the Company and the Group is to recruit disabled workers for those vacancies that they are able to fill.  All 
necessary assistance with initial training courses is given.  Arrangements are made, whenever possible, for retraining 
employees who become disabled, to enable them to perform work identified as appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities. 
 
Statement of directors' responsibilities 
 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company 
and Group for that period.  The directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business. 
 
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently with the exception of the 
changes arising on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year as explained on page 20 under Note 1 
 Accounting Policies'.  They also confirm that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in 
preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2003 and that applicable accounting standards have 
been followed.  
 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
 
Auditors 
 
Following the conversion of PricewaterhouseCoopers into a limited liability partnership from 1 January 2003, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned as auditors of the Company on 28 March 2003 and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was 
appointed as auditor to fill the casual vacancy which arose. A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Anuual General 
Meeting. 
 
By order of the board 
 
 
 
 
TC Rogers ACA 
Secretary 
11
th
 February 2004 
  Albion PLC 
 
 
15 
Directors' remuneration report 
 
Introduction 
 
The remuneration report sets out the Company's policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors 
together with details of directors' remuneration packages and service contracts.  This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations ) which introduced new 
statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors' remuneration in respect of periods ending on or after 31 December 
2002.  Since the Regulations only apply to companies incorporated in Great Britain, Albion, by virtue of being a public 
limited company incorporated in Northern Ireland is not, at present, required to adhere to the Regulations.  Nevertheless 
and consistent with the Company's commitment to high standards of corporate governance, Albion has elected to comply 
with the requirements of the Regulations for the financial year ended 30 September 2003. This report will be put to an 
advisory vote of the Company's shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 18 March 2004. 
 
The remuneration committee 
 
The remuneration committee consists of three non-executive directors, namely Mr T Fulford, Chairman, Mr JR Fetherston 
and Mr WA Moore.   
 
Executive policy 
 
The committee aims to ensure that remuneration packages are sufficient to attract, hold and motivate executive directors.  
Remuneration packages are reviewed annually. 
 
Executive remuneration 
 
The main elements of executive remuneration are as follows: 
 
Basic salary 
 
In determining basic salaries, consideration is given to levels in comparative companies.  As with other employees, 
increases are normally annual and relate closely to the current rate of inflation. 
 
Performance related bonuses 
 
Bonuses are contractual and are payable on profits achieved by the Group over an agreed base figure in a single financial 
year. In determining bonuses, consideration is given to bonus levels in comparative companies. The pensionable nature of 
the bonuses provides additional incentive for the directors to perform at the highest levels.  In the year ended 30 September 
2003 the performance related bonuses represented 10.52% (Chris Wood 10.89%, Tim Rogers 10.67%, A Sharp 8.11%) of 
total emoluments earned by the executive directors.  
 
Benefits in kind 
 
In addition, executives are provided with the use of a company car and personal medical cover, together with other smaller 
benefits in line with normal company practice.  Benefits in kind are not pensionable. 
 
Pension 
 
Of the executive directors at 30 September 2003, CJ Wood and A Sharp were members of the Albion Limited Pension 
scheme.  The Scheme is a contributory, Inland Revenue approved, final salary scheme. The pension plan provided for CJ 
Wood is two thirds of pensionable salary at age 60 and the pension for A Sharp is on the basis of 1/60 of final salary for 
every year of service. 
 
TC Rogers who was appointed to the board on 1 October 2001 participates in the company defined contribution scheme. 
 
Directors' share options 
 
None of the directors held share options in the Company at 30 September 2003 (2002: nil). 
 
 