 24 Alkane Energy plc   Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010
Scope of report
The Directors' Remuneration Report sets out the Company's 
remuneration policy and, particularly, its approach for directors.  
It also explains how the Company complies with the Combined  
Code on Corporate Governance to the extent practicable for a  
public company of its size which follows the recommendation  
on corporate governance of the Quoted Companies Alliance.  
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee  
(the  Committee') and has been approved by the Board for 
submission to shareholders. The Board accepted the Committee's 
Report without change.
Shareholders will be provided with an opportunity to vote on 
remuneration policy as set out in this Report at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. Further details are contained in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting circulated to shareholders.
Composition and role of the Committee
The Committee is made up entirely of non-executive directors, 
currently Joe Darby (Chairman), Julia Henderson and John Lander. 
Their biographical details appear on pages 16 and 17.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference and 
meets as required to:
Make recommendations to the Board on the broad policy and  	
framework for executive directors' remuneration and its cost; and
Determines the total remuneration package and contractual  	
terms for each of the executive directors.
It is also responsible for overseeing the management and 
administration of the Group's share schemes for employees, 
including the award of share option entitlements.
The members of the Committee do not have any personal financial 
interests, other than as shareholders, or any conflicts from cross-
directorships or day-to-day involvement in the running of the Group.
The Committee has access to independent external advisers on all 
remuneration-related issues and may obtain advice in determining 
individual remuneration levels from remuneration consultants 
appointed by the Committee. The results of market surveys and 
other analysis from external sources are also made available to the 
Committee. When appropriate, the Committee invites the views of 
the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director, but they are not 
involved in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2010.
Remuneration policy
The Committee has adopted a remuneration policy designed to:
Attract, retain and motivate the high calibre professional,  	
managerial and technological expertise necessary to realise the 
Group's business objectives without paying excessively;
Ensure that the remuneration framework and the constituent  	
reward elements are competitive and fairly reflect, as necessary, 
the nature and complexity of the Group's business and the 
markets within which the Group operates;
In general terms, set base salary broadly in line with median  	
market practice, whilst achieving higher earnings by linking cash 
incentive packages (e.g. bonuses) and share options to superior 
performance;
Create overall remuneration packages in which performance-  	
related elements form a significant proportion; and
Directors' Remuneration Report
Maintain the correct balance and linkage between individual and  	
business performance so as to effectively align the interests of 
directors and senior management with those of shareholders, 
particularly that of enhancing shareholder value.
Elements of remuneration
Each executive director's remuneration package consists of the 
following elements:
Basic salary and benefits;  	
Benefits in kind;  	
Performance-related annual bonus;  	
Pensions and life assurance arrangements; and  	
Share options and long-term incentives.  	
Full details of the directors' remuneration for the year ended 31 
December 2010 are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Basic salary
Basic salary for each executive director is reviewed annually taking 
into account assessments of the overall Company performance, the 
director's personal performance, experience and changing 
responsibilities and the median market position (against businesses 
of similar size and complexity). Account is also taken of salary levels 
and employment conditions across the Group.
B e n e fi t s i n k i n d
Other corporate benefits play a role in ensuring the competitiveness 
of overall remuneration arrangements. The most significant benefits 
agreed by the Committee are car allowance (where there are ceilings 
on expenditure) and the provision of insurance policies providing 
cover for health care. In addition, the Company pays certain 
motoring and accommodation expenses for Neil O'Brien. The 
Company paid motoring and accommodation expenses for Cameron 
Davies during 2009, during his employment as an executive director. 
Benefits are valued in accordance with HMRC.
Performance-related annual bonus
The Company has a performance-related bonus scheme under which 
all staff, including executive directors, were eligible for a maximum 
bonus of 25 per cent of basic salary based on the achievement of 
both increased profit and increased production. No payments to 
directors have been approved by the Remuneration Committee  
in respect of the performance for the year to 31 December 2010 
(2009: nil). 
Recognising the continuing commitment and efforts being asked of 
staff in achieving the Company's challenging expansion programme, 
the Remuneration Committee has approved a bonus scheme for 2011 
for all staff, including executive directors, based on the achievement 
of Group budget profit before tax; power output at least five per 
cent above budget, and completing new sites ahead of schedule.
The maximum potential bonus payment available under the scheme 
is 25 per cent of basic salary.
Bonuses are not pensionable. 
Pensions and life assurance
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. Pension 
contributions for executive directors are based on salary only, with 
bonuses and other discretionary benefits excluded. For the financial 
year under review, the Company contributed ten per cent of basic 
salary (2009: ten per cent). Non-executive directors are ineligible to 
join the Company's pension scheme. 25 Alkane Energy plc  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010
Overview
Business Review 
Directors' Report
Governance 
Financial Statements 
Company Information 
Share options and long term incentives
(i)  Post Admission Share Option Plan
 The Company's Post Admission Share Scheme (the  Plan') which 
has been in operation for executive directors and employees since 
2001 was closed for new option awards in March 2011. However, 
options granted under the Plan may continue to be exercised for 
a further ten years to 2020. For all options granted, the option 
price is determined by reference to the market value at the date 
of grant and all personnel are required to pay the full grant price 
on exercise.
 Options granted under the Plan are exercisable between three 
and ten years from the award. The operation of the Plan is 
subject to ongoing review by the Committee with regards to the 
level of allocation and frequency of issue of options taking into 
account the practice of comparable companies and the guidelines 
of the Association of Business Insurers. Where necessary, the 
Committee will take independent advice. In addition, if new 
shares are issued for the purposes of the Plan, institutional 
investors' guidelines on dilution of equity in connection with 
share schemes will continue to be complied with. 
 The Committee determines the requirement, if any, for 
performance targets each time options are granted. In order to 
comply with best practice, targets are set for grants of options to 
executive directors other than on appointment. 
 The options granted on 8 April 2005 to Cameron Davies, Stephen 
Goalby and David Oldham were conditional upon the 
achievement of a target increase of 5 per cent in the Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) of the Company relative to that of the 
FTSE AIM Index between 8 April 2005 and 31 December 2006. 
This target was achieved.
 During the year 173,685 share options under the Plan were 
granted to, and no share options were exercised by, executive 
directors during the year (2009: granted nil, exercised nil). The 
options granted during the year are conditional upon the 
Remuneration Committee being satisfied with the individual 
director's performance. 
(ii)  2000 Share Option Plan
 This Plan was established by the Company in 2000 for all 
executive directors and employees. A maximum of one third of 
the options granted under the 2000 Share Option Plan became 
immediately exercisable on the Company's flotation on the 
London Stock Exchange on 14 December 2000 and the 
remainder were exercisable by option holders from the third 
anniversary of the grant up to the tenth anniversary of the grant. 
Share options granted under this Plan had no performance 
criteria because at the time of establishment of the Plan the 
Company was not listed. During the year under the 2000 Share 
Option Plan no share options were granted to, and 498,000 
share options were exercised by, executive directors (2009: 
granted nil, exercised nil). The 2000 Share Option Plan terminated 
on 18 September 2010.
(iii) Individual option arrangement
 In addition to the above Plans, options were previously granted to 
certain executive directors under a bespoke unapproved share 
option arrangement, executed under a Deed dated 30 October 
1997. Under this Deed Cameron Davies and David Oldham were 
granted options to subscribe for 142,800 and 154,200 ordinary 
shares of 0.5 pence each respectively. 
 The options became exercisable from 14 December 2000 and 
lapsed unexercised on 13 December 2010. Share options granted 
under this Deed had no performance criteria because at the time 
of the grant of the share options the Company was not listed. 
New share incentive plan
To replace the Post Admission Share Option Plan which has terminated, 
it is proposed to introduce a new Share Incentive Plan comprising (a) a 
new share option scheme, (b) a performance share scheme and (c) a 
sharesave scheme. The directors will be seeking approval for the new 
Share Incentive Plan at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
(Resolution 11). Full details of the Share Incentive Plan will be provided 
with the Notice of the AGM circulated  to shareholders.
Further details of the executive directors' interests in share options 
are set out on page 28.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of 
two years. Re-appointment beyond a second term or subsequent 
term is subject to consideration by the Nomination Committee for 
recommendation to the Board. John Lander was appointed on  
4 June 2004 and has been re-appointed for a third term 
commencing on 4 June 2008. Julia Henderson was appointed on  
1 June 2007 and has been re-appointed for a second term 
commencing on 1 June 2009. Cameron Davies retired as an 
executive director on 31 October 2009 and was appointed a 
non-executive director on 1 November 2009. Joe Darby was 
appointed a non-executive director on 1 January 2010. Fees are 
determined by the Board based on independent advice and by 
comparison with fees paid by other companies of similar size and 
complexity, and reflect the amount of time non-executive directors 
are expected to devote to the Group's activities during the year. No 
additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who chair 
Committees of the Board. Individual directors are not involved in any 
discussion concerning their own remuneration. There is no notice 
period in respect of non-executive directors' appointment, and no 
benefits are payable to them on termination of appointment.
Non-executive directors are not eligible for pensions, share 
incentives, annual bonus or any similar payments other than 
out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the performance of  
their duties.
Service contracts and notice periods
The executive directors have service contracts with the Company, 
which are not of fixed duration and which are terminable in each 
case by either party giving 12 months' written notice. The service 
contracts allow the Company to terminate the employment of an 
executive director without notice by making a payment in lieu of 
notice calculated to compensate the executive directors for salary 
and contractual benefits over the unexpired period of notice 
although the Company is not obliged to exercise its right to make a 
payment in lieu of notice. Copies of service contracts are available 
for inspection prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The details of the executive directors' individual service contracts are 
set out below:
  Unexpired  
  term at 
 Date of service 31 December Notice 
Executive director contract  2010 period
Neil O'Brien 1 November 2008 N/A 12 months
Stephen Goalby 6 December 2000 N/A 12 months