 INTRODUCTION 
This report has been prepared in accordance with The Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the  Regulations').
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how
the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code (the  Code') on
Corporate Governance relating to Directors' remuneration. As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to approve
the report will be proposed at the annual general meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be received
and adopted. 
The auditors are required to report on the  auditable' part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of
the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Regulations).
The report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information. 
Part 2 of the Regulations - Unaudited Information 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Up to 17 February 2008, the Committee was chaired by Michael Chamberlain and the other members were Peter Bertram
and Alan McWalter.  On 18 February 2008, Alan McWalter was appointed Chairman of the Committee with Peter Bertram
as the other member of the Committee.  Michael Chamberlain retired from the Board of Alphameric on 17 April 2008.  The
Committee met three times in the year with all members appointed at that time in attendance.  The responsibility for the
establishment of a remuneration policy and its cost is a matter for the full Board, on the advice of the Remuneration
Committee. The recommendations of the Remuneration Committee have been approved without amendment by the Board
for submission to shareholders. 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration for the Executive Directors and for
determining specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee members
have no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interests
arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business. 
The Remuneration Committee received wholly independent advice on executive compensation and associated share
scheme administration from Halliwell Consulting. No other services were provided to the Company by Halliwell Consulting
during the year.  
The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference with the full remit of the committee
role described. A copy of the terms of reference is available to shareholders on request from the Company Secretary.
REMUNERATION POLICY 2008 
The policy is designed to attract and retain individuals of the appropriate calibre, to encourage and reward high
performance and is to set the remuneration package and the share incentives at the median level on average in comparison
to the Company's comparator group.
The Remuneration Committee believes emphasis on performance should encourage executives to focus on delivering the
business strategy and, by providing meaningful incentives to executives, ensure that the appropriate balance between
fixed and performance related pay is maintained. 
Directors' Remuneration Report
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2008
14 Directors' Remuneration Report 15
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2008
COMPARATOR GROUP 2008
The constituents of the Company's comparator group for benchmarking remuneration during 2008 were:
Alterian plc Gresham Computing plc RM plc
ARC International plc Intec Telecom Systems plc SDL plc
Dialight plc Kewill plc Trafficmaster plc
GB Group plc Macro4 plc
The basis of selection of the comparator group was:
  companies in the same market sector as the Company; and
  companies with a range of market capitalisations such that the Company sits at the median of the group.
REMUNERATION POLICY 2009
The Remuneration Committee reviews on an annual basis whether the policy remains appropriate for the relevant financial
year. Factors taken into account by the Remuneration Committee include:
  market conditions affecting the Company;
  the recruitment market in the Company's sector;
  changing market practice; and
  changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies. 
The current shareholder authority for   The Alphameric plc Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan' (the  LTIP') expires at the 2009
annual general meeting. The Remuneration Committee is intending to operate a similar remuneration policy for 2009 as set
out for 2008. However, the Remuneration Committee is in the process of designing new equity incentive arrangements to
replace the LTIP which expires at the annual general meeting, which will be put to shareholders in due course. 
ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION 2008
Basic Salary - Policy Median
The following table sets out the salaries paid to the Executive Directors during 2008:
N Na am me e     c cu ur rr re en nt t     p pr re ev vi io ou us s % % i in nc cr re ea as se e 
( (a an nn nu ua al li is se ed d o ov ve er r 3 3 y ye ea ar rs s) )
A W Morcombe  262,000  225,000 5.5%
M G McLaren  190,000  179,000 2.0%
J A Soulsby  185,000  174,000 2.0%
The Renumeration Committee reviewed the Executive Directors' salaries in January 2008 and increases were awarded. The
salaries of the Executive Directors were last increased in January 2005.
When determining the salary of the executives, the Committee takes into consideration:
  the levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, responsibility and skills, in organisations of
broadly similar size and complexity, in particular the median salary levels of the companies in the comparator group;
  the performance of the individual Executive Director; 
  the individual Executive Director's experience and responsibilities; and
  pay and conditions throughout the Company.
Annual Performance Related Bonus - Policy Median to Upper Quartile
The Company's bonus plan has a maximum potential bonus of 100% of salary for the Executive Directors. It is currently
based on Group profitability.  The Company has awarded a bonus for the 2008 financial year at the minimum level of 30%
of salary to the Executive Directors based on the planned improvement in profitability year on year in line with the business
recovery. This award is additionally supported by:
  a substantial improvement in the cash position of the business at the year end;
  the signing of major contracts in Amalgamated Racing Limited; and
  the protracted but ultimately successful court case.
This is the first Executive bonus award for a period of three years. Bonus payments are not pensionable. Share Incentives 2008 - Policy Median
The Remuneration Committee's policy is to provide annual share grants to executives at the median level compared to the
comparator group. Share incentives, excluding all employee plans, are provided to the executives solely through the LTIP. The
Remuneration Committee believes that share awards under the LTIP enable the Company to provide a competitive incentive
and retention tool which is also cost-effective in respect of both shareholder dilution and P&L cost. Further, the grant of awards
with the attached performance conditions ensures that the Company's comparative Total Shareholder Return ( TSR
1
')
performance against the comparator group is at least at the upper quartile before executives will receive the full benefit of
their share incentives. This structure demonstrates the Remuneration Committee's desire to correlate incentive arrangements
with the achievement of substantial performance.
No LTIP awards were made during the financial year. As mentioned earlier in the Report, the Remuneration Committee is in
the process of designing new equity incentive arrangements to replace the existing LTIP.
The performance conditions for the LTIPs awarded are that the Company's EPS growth over the three-year performance
period must be equal to or greater than RPI+3%p.a. before any of the award is capable of release. On the satisfaction of this
condition, the release of the award is dependent on the Company's TSR performance against the comparator group.
30% of the award will be released for median comparative performance with 100% being released for upper quartile
performance. 
It should be noted that the real value received by the Executive Directors under the share incentive arrangements will be
dependent upon the degree to which the associated performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of the three-year
performance period and the share price of the Company at this time.
Basis of Performance Condition Selection and Measurement
Comparative TSR was selected as the performance condition for LTIP awards by the Remuneration Committee as it ensures
that the executives have outperformed their peers in the comparator group over the measurement period in delivering
shareholder value before being entitled to receive any of their awards irrespective of general market conditions.
In addition, the EPS underpin will ensure that the underlying financial performance of the Company is consistent with the
TSR performance over the measurement period. The Remuneration Committee will provide a full explanation and
justification at the time of the release of award on why it believes that the underlying financial performance of the
Company is consistent with this TSR performance.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance conditions for share awards are satisfied. Where the
performance requirements are based on EPS, the Committee will use the principles behind the audited figures disclosed in
the Company's financial statements, and may take advice from independent advisers as to whether any adjustments are
required to ensure consistency in accordance with the terms of the performance conditions.  Where the performance
measure is Total Shareholder Return, Halliwell Consulting, the Remuneration Committee's advisers shall calculate the TSR
in accordance with the rules of the LTIP and sign off these figures prior to the release of any award.
Dilution
In accordance with the ABI guidelines, the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling
10-year period to employees under all its share plans and can issue no more than 5% of its issued share capital in a rolling
10-year period to the Executive Directors. The current operation of the Company's share plans is within ABI limits on a
rolling basis for discretionary share plans.
Pension
Defined Contribution Plan
The Company pays the equivalent of 10% of the Executive Director's basic salary into a personal pension plan, subject to the
Executive contributing 5% of basic salary (median level of pension contributions in the comparator group are approximately 10%).
There are no defined benefit schemes in operation in the Group.
Directors' Remuneration Report
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2008
16
1
Total Shareholder Return ( TSR') is a measure showing the return on investing in one share of the Company over the performance period (the return is the value of the
capital gain and reinvested dividends).  It is normally used comparatively and the company which achieves the best return is ranked number one.