 Operationally, this has been a strong year for Stanelco despite the general economic environment and more specific difficulties
in the global plastics markets. Revenue growth exceeded 20% in both of the Group's divisions, and in the UK-based bioplastics
business (rebranded Biome Bioplastics in January 2010) revenue growth was 30%. These results support our strategy to
develop aggressively our bioplastics business by working closely with major customers to provide products with the winning
credentials of sustainability and biodegradation.
It is particularly pleasing to see that the significant growth in revenues enabled our BioPlastics Division to move into profit in
2009 (before the legal costs associated with the Novamont S.p.A. (Novamont ) patent litigation). This gives the Board
encouragement that the underlying business model for our materials is robust.
The Group's loss from operations also reduced. This improvement has come not only from the gross profit improvement and
from revenue growth but also a tight focus on expenditure/cash that has seen central costs reduce by  0.6m (before non-
cash share option charges) and continuing improvement in the RF Applications Division.
The Board believes that shareholders are best served by this strategy of driving revenue growth and controlling costs with the
aim of moving the Group towards profitability. The commercial capability of the technology is emerging and we have a team
in place providing the innovative development of a broader range of products that can accelerate value generation for the
benefit of the business and its shareholders.
Further funding is necessary in order to underpin and achieve this and the Board has decided to proceed with the planned
fundraising to ensure that the Group can fulfill its potential.
Results
Group revenues increased by  3.1m to  17.9m in the year ended 31 December 2009, an increase of 21% compared with the
previous year. 
Biome Bioplastics increased its revenues by 30%, Biotec by 23% and RF Applications by 23%.
Gross profit for the year increased from  2.8m to  3.6m and the gross margin increased to 20% (2008: 19%). 
The loss from operations for the year reduced to  2.6m (2008:  2.8m) despite  0.7m of additional legal costs being incurred in
Biotec in 2009 in defending the Novamont legal action. 
After foreign exchange losses and gains (mainly on inter-company loans), the loss before taxation was  3.6m (2008:  0.5m),
delivering a loss per share of 0.104 pence (2008: earnings per share 0.005 pence).
Our cash position at the year end was  3.2m, with a net cash outflow from operating activities of  2.5m and some absorption
of cash into working capital as the business expanded (2008:  1.4m).
Strategy
Our Group strategy is to:
  build a clear market leading position based on patented technology;
  develop from existing IP base into in a range of new functional application areas where premiums can be obtained;
  create and build bioplastic markets by working intimately with consumer facing international business; such development to
be application lead rather than technology push; and
  drive the businesses' differentiation by developing and retaining a team that is recognised as head and shoulders above the
competition in application and product engineering.
Our continuing development work seeks not only to enhance the functional characteristics of its products but also to reduce
the cost base of these materials in order to improve margins generated. The Group intends to continue to protect its existing
intellectual property in a robust manner and will seek to protect new developments through patents and confidentiality in an
appropriate way.
Chairman's statement
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 3 It is pleasing to note that the French court took the view earlier this month that Biotec's original technology does not infringe
Novamont's three patents and indeed, whilst one of these patents has already expired, a second was found to be partially
invalid. This allows the Group to proceed with increased confidence in the market. All efforts have, and will continue to be
made, to end this dispute as soon as possible if resolution in an equitable manner can be achieved.
We have had supportive feedback from customers following the branding of our UK bioplastics business as Biome Bioplastics
and we will seek to develop this as a leading bioplastics industrial brand. The Biotec joint venture will continue to be optimised
for supporting the manufacturing scale-up of existing and new products.
We will continue to develop the RF Applications Division in-line with its re-emergence as a small scale OEM engineering
business. Opportunities will also be sought to accelerate the business to a meaningful scale or to realise best value for
shareholders in other ways.
The Board has also examined all operational savings that can be made in order to underline to shareholders our belief that the
current development strategy is working and will continue to do so. In support of our growth strategy the Directors will reduce
their remuneration packages during this period of cash constraint by approximately 30% following successful completion of the
fundraising described below and make further staff cost reductions. These savings will reduce the cash burn in respect of
central costs by approximately  0.3m per annum.
Planned Fundraising
The Board believes that this strategy will be the most viable way to build a valuable and fast growing business. However,
further funding will be required.
To continue to pursue the Group's intended strategy, the Company is seeking to raise up to  3.5 million (before expenses)
from the planned fundraising in May 2010, to be achieved through a placing and open offer. The net proceeds of the
fundraising will be used:
  to support the continued development of the Group's bioplastics products and bioplastics market position with a view to
commercial and technical leadership in this arena;
  to fund the Group's central overheads and listing costs until sufficient scale has been reached; and
  to strengthen the Group's working capital position as Group experiences continued strong sales growth.
A minimum of  2.7 million will need to be raised for the fundraising to proceed. Preparations for the proposed fundraising are
well advanced and, as at the date of this statement, the Board already had non-binding indications of support to subscribe for
more than 60% of this amount, including 5% to be taken up by the Directors and senior management of the Group.  The
Board considers that raising  3.5m would allow it to better maximise the opportunities for growth.
The placing and open offer will require a prospectus to be published by the Company, which will set out the background to and
the reasons for the planned fundraising and its detailed terms. This document is expected to be published by the middle of
May and we expect the fundraising to be completed by early June 2010.  
In the event that the fundraising does not conclude successfully, the Group will be obliged to follow an alternate strategy that
focuses principally on conserving its cash resources whilst seeking to realise potential value through an orderly disposal of the
Group's assets. The Board anticipates that such a strategy will almost certainly require a cessation of much of the Group's
current growth and development activity and a significant reduction in central costs. 
4 STANELCO PLC
Chairman's statement continued Going concern
As explained above, in order to continue to pursue the Group's intended strategy, the Company is seeking to raise up to  3.5
million from an equity fundraising.  If this fundraising is not successful then the Board will be obliged to follow the alternate
strategy set out above. The Board considers that ceasing certain of its activities and seeking an orderly disposal of the
Company's investments should generate sufficient cash to enable the Company and the Group to meet operational
requirements whilst the Board pursues alternatives for realising shareholder value. However, successful disposal of the Group's
investments cannot be guaranteed nor can the swift liquidation of its working capital or the continuing growth of the RF
Applications Division if it becomes more closely constrained in terms of cash.
The Board has concluded that the combination of these circumstances represents a material uncertainty that casts significant
doubt over the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and that, therefore, the Company may be unable to realise its
assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. Nevertheless, after making enquiries and considering the
uncertainties described above, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the
going concern basis in the preparation of the Company and the Group's financial statements.
Board and employees
Our development path this year owes much to the support of our employees and their passion for building a business around
these technologies. I would like to thank them for all their efforts for the Group. I believe we have strong teams working
throughout the business to continue the Group's progress.
Shareholder Meetings
It is anticipated that the formal announcement of the fundraising and the publication of the prospectus will occur in May.
Shareholder approval of the placing and open offer will then be sought at a General Meeting of the Company which will be
convened approximately 17 days later.
To allow time for the fundraising to be considered fully and to complete, the Board is proposing to delay this year's Annual
General Meeting until late June 2010. 
Current Trading 
As reported in the Group's Interim Management Statement for the period 1 January 2010 to 28 April 2010 released today,
Group revenues have continued to grow strongly during the three months to 31 March 2010 and the Group's overall trading
performance remains in line with the Board's expectations.
Following the expiry of the rights attaching to the Golden Share  which the Company held in its 50/50 joint venture, Biotec,
the Company will no longer consolidate 100% of Biotec's results. The revenues and cash balances reported below for 2010,
therefore, include 50% of the figures reported by Biotec and the prior year figures are reported on the same basis to allow a
like-for-like comparison.
Group revenues in the three months to 31 March 2010 increased from  2.1m to  2.6m on a like-for-like basis (including 50%
of Biotec's revenues), an increase of 26% compared with the same period last year. This reflected a 76% increase in bioplastic
sales made by Biome Bioplastics, a 58% increase in sales in RF Applications Division and a 7% increase in third party sales
from our joint venture, Biotec.
Our cash position at 31 March 2010 was  2.4m, including 50% of Biotec's cash balance.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 5
Chairman's statement continued Outlook
The Board believes that it has demonstrated the potential for creating value for shareholders by sustainable growth of the
bioplastics business, and believes there are substantial opportunities in its product and sales development pipeline to accelerate
this further in 2010 and beyond.
In 2009 we have delivered good top line growth and made significant progress with product development leading to the
launch of several new market leading bioplastics. A focus on cost control and reduction has ensured that the effect of this
revenue has come through to bottom line improvement despite the increased costs of defending the Biotec technology from
the Novamont challenge.
This strong revenue growth has continued into 2010 and the Board is confident that there are both exciting future
opportunities exist in our market and that we are well positioned to capitalise on them.
We now intend to seek support from our shareholders to enable us to fund the accelerating development of the Group.
John Standen
Chairman
28 April 2010
6 STANELCO PLC
Chairman's statement continued