 8
Noventa Limited | Annual Report 2009
CHAIRMAN`S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder,
I was appointed as a Director of Noventa on 29 June 2009 and subsequently as Chairman on 9 July 2009, following
a decision by the majority of shareholders to remove the incumbent Chairman.
Since its admission to AIM, on 20 March 2007, Noventa has reported losses year on year. The poor performance of
the Marropino Mine and hence the loss making nature of the Group can be attributed to a wide variety of equipment,
operational and previous management failings, which resulted in output being consistently below expectations.  As a
result the Marropino Mine was put into care and maintenance in May 2009, a situation that is reflected in the current
year's financial results.  
A new Board and management team has been put in place since my appointment, and due to a series of successful
fundraisings, initiated by the Board, totalling US$7.1m (before costs) in the second half of 2009 and the conversion of
all existing convertible debt into equity, the Board has been in a position to develop and implement a turnaround
strategy for the Group. 
The new Board includes individuals with collective expertise in mining, tantalum, engineering, and finance. Key
management now includes a new Portuguese speaking CFO, Daniel Cassiano Silva, who was appointed in January
2010 and is based in Maputo. 
The Company has changed its legal counsel in Jersey, UK and South Africa, has appointed Deloitte LLP as its Auditor,
and PricewaterhouseCoopers as its Tax Advisor in Mozambique.
The operational headquarters of the Company has been relocated to Maputo, Mozambique to be closer to, and
aligned with the mine at Marropino and concessions in Zambezia Province. Noventa has strengthened the local
managerial and administrative team with Mozambique staff at its operational headquarters, led by  the  CEO and CFO,
further reinforcing the Company's commitment to local representation in Mozambique.  Members of the team have
been recruited with an emphasis, in addition to professional qualifications and skills, on their ability to speak
Portuguese, the national language of Mozambique.  A small team will remain in Johannesburg providing logistic and
engineering support. 
The Group's assets are principally located in central Mozambique. Politically stable since 1992, the country is
supportive of mining projects and in the past five years has attracted long term multimillion dollar investments from
companies such as BHP Billiton, Vale and Kenmare Resources.
The Group's initial open cast mine, the Marropino Mine, has been operating intermittently since 2003, but the Board
believes that the approach that was historically taken to bring the mine into production was incorrect and not as
effective as it should have been. As a result, much less of the resource has so far been extracted and successfully
processed than would originally have been expected by this point. In addition, the Group's mining rights at Morrua,
Mutala and others remain unexploited.
The new management team, led by CEO Mr. J Allan, considered and compared several options on how to profitably
restart operations at Marropino, each of which was stress tested in order to identify the most effective and reliable
approach. New working capital was raised through the successful fundraisings mentioned above and a decision was
made to restart operations at the mine at the end of April 2010 with modifications to existing plant and the mining
plan, initially using the tailings, to be followed by the previously rejected oversize material. The Company has been
successful in its efforts, with the Marropino Mine recommencing operations on a limited basis on 23 April 2010.
Each element of the process from extraction through processing and distribution to customers was examined to
identify and eliminate losses and previous inefficiencies. An extensive list of remedial actions, additions to the process
and modifications have been identified and are being implemented. Throughout the decision making process
independent external advice was taken from South African and Canadian parties familiar with processes used for
producing tantalum concentrate.
The Marropino Mine is now connected to the national power supply. This should provide significant improvement both
in terms of cost savings (estimated at more than US$1.5 million annually) and reliability compared with the previous
use of diesel generators, which will be retained as a backup. 
2065_Noventa R&A Text_2065_Noventa R&A Text.qxp  09/06/2010  10:31  Page 8 9
Annual Report 2009 | Noventa Limited
A potential saving (estimated at around US$1.0 million annually) in distribution costs should be realised by changing
the transport route of the concentrate to our customers, avoiding costly overland transport to the port of Walvis Bay
in Namibia. 
Mineral samples were taken from the pit at the Marropino Mine and from the already dug material.  These were
independently assayed to verify the ore body and to reconfirm the viability of resurrecting production.  The existing
main processing plant design was tested under laboratory conditions to assess its fitness for purpose.  This resulted
in a substantial redesign of the process that has been modelled and tested to overcome the previous deficiencies.  
The Board believes it is significantly ahead of its competitors in terms of financing and developing its tantalum assets.
The Group has estimated ore resources of 19mlbs Ta
2
O
5
distributed across three deposits. Since January 2007, a
total of 218klbs of Ta
2
O
5
concentrate has been sold from Marropino.  The Board believes that our mission is to restore
shareholder value through becoming a low cost producer of tantalum concentrate. This of course is dependent on
successfully raising the funds to restart full scale production of 500,000 lb per annum contained Ta
2
O
5
from run of
mine material, with an attention to detail to ensure that the process delivers the tantalum concentrate at an economical
production level and recovery rate. Whilst the laboratory tests and advice received have shown this to be possible, it
has yet to be proved. Additions and modifications have been made to the plant, and a plan has been formulated to
exploit all our mining concessions at Marropino, Mutala and Morrua. An exploration programme is being implemented
this summer to evaluate all the areas for which the Group has exploration mining licences. 
We have now appointed a senior management team at the Marropino Mine of our subsidiary, Highland African Mining
Company Limitada in Mozambique.
We would especially like to thank the CEO, Mr. J Allan, who agreed at short notice to take on the task of leading the
 turn around' of the operations and his team and external advisors for their efforts in making a restart possible. 
Mr. J Allan will be leaving his executive appointment by the end of June 2010, whilst remaining on the Board as a Non-
Executive Director. The Board have appointed Mr. P Lawless to replace Mr. J Allan. Mr. P Lawless will be based in
Maputo, initially as Chief Operating Officer and after a hand over period, which started in April 2010; he will replace
Mr. J Allan as Chief Executive Officer at the end of June 2010. He is very familiar with Africa and speaks Portuguese.
We would also like to thank the Ministry of Mineral Resources as well as the Government of Zambezia Province for
their continued support and assistance.
The Group requires a total of $25.0 million for its business plan, including capital investment in equipment,
infrastructure, exploration and evaluation of mining concessions, as well as exploration of sites which have exploration
licences which may extend the life of resources available. The Group is currently exploring various funding
opportunities to provide the necessary funds.  The Board has continued to be successful in raising interim finance to
support the business with $2.0 million of funding to be received in June 2010 from a further placing of shares. This
interim funding is considered by the Board to be sufficient to finance the Group operations, based on current
forecasts, until at least the end of Quarter 3 2010, providing the Group time to raise the necessary $23.0 million of
funding. The Directors, subject to market conditions, believe that they will be able to raise the necessary funding within
the required period.
The Board has decided to seek an additional listing on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) in the summer of 2010 and
has appointed advisors to assist with the listing: Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP as Canadian legal advisors, Scott
Wilson Roscoe Postle Associates Inc. to prepare the Technical Report (NI 43-101) for the TSX listing, and Pope &
Company Limited as Sponsors.
I would like personally to thank all the shareholders, both existing and new, for their support in this difficult task.
Eric F. Kohn TD
Chairman
2065_Noventa R&A Text_2065_Noventa R&A Text.qxp  09/06/2010  10:31  Page 9