 36 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Statement of compliance
The Company supports the principles contained in the 2008 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued  
by the Financial Reporting Council (the Combined Code ).
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for 
good governance. Throughout the year ended 31 December 
2009, the Company has complied with the provisions of section 
1 of the Combined Code and with the requirements of the new 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR ) on audit committees 
and corporate governance statements. The statements below 
describe how the Company has applied the principles identified  
in the Combined Code and DTR directives. 
The Board
As at 31 December 2009 the Board comprised seven members, 
who also served throughout the year. The members of the Board 
include the four executive Directors: Christopher Miller (Chairman), 
David Roper (Chief Executive), Simon Peckham (Chief Operating 
Officer) and Geoffrey Martin (Group Finance Director); and  
the three non-executive Directors: Miles Templeman (senior  
non-executive Director), Perry Crosthwaite and John Grant.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective and 
proper management and control of the Company and has a 
formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions. Its primary 
roles are to determine and review Company strategy and policy, 
consider acquisitions and disposals, assess requests for major 
capital expenditure, review trading performance, ensure adequate 
funding is available and appropriate personnel are in place, 
maintain sound internal control systems, report to shareholders 
and give consideration to all other significant financial matters. 
This process is undertaken in conjunction with senior management, 
who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the 
Group's operations and for reporting to the Board on items of 
significance and the progress against objectives. The Board 
meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad-hoc basis 
as required by time critical business needs. There were four 
scheduled Board meetings held during the year and the 
attendance of each of the Directors is shown on page 38. 
The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business 
experience in areas complementary to the activities of the 
Company. Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages 26 
and 27. These biographies identify any other appointments held 
by the Directors. The only executive Director to hold non-executive 
Director appointments elsewhere is Mr Christopher Miller, who  
is Chairman of TMO Renewables Limited and is allowed to retain 
the remuneration he receives from that appointment.
The terms and conditions of the executive Directors' service 
contracts and the non-executive Directors' appointments are 
available for inspection at the Company's registered office.  
The non-executive Directors' appointment letters are also  
available on the Company's website: www.melroseplc.net.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, 
consideration has been given to the independence of all the  
non-executive Directors and the Board considers all the non-
executive Directors to be independent. The non-executive 
Directors are not entitled to any bonus or shares under the  
2009 Incentive Share Scheme.
Performance of the Board and each Committee is evaluated 
annually. The Chairman has held meetings with the Directors, 
including the senior independent non-executive Director, Mr Miles 
Templeman, to discuss the performance of individual executive 
Directors and the Board as a whole. It was considered that the 
individual Directors and the Board as a whole were operating 
effectively. Directors determine whether there are any training 
requirements by completing an evaluation questionnaire during 
the year that is designed to identify any failures in the performance 
of the Board and each of its Committees. The findings of the 
evaluations were reviewed by the Company Secretary and 
feedback was provided to the Board.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association,  
one third (or the number nearest to but not less than one third)  
of Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for  
re-election at each Annual General Meeting of the Company. It is 
the policy of the Board that non-executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial term of three years, following which their appointment 
will be reviewed.
The Directors proposed for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting on 13 May 2010 are Mr David Roper, Mr Miles 
Templeman and Mr John Grant. The Board and Nomination 
Committee have carefully considered the time commitments 
required and the contribution made by each Director. Both the 
Nomination Committee and the Board are of the belief that the 
performance of each executive and non-executive Director 
continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates 
commitment to his role. 
All Directors receive a formal and tailored induction shortly after 
their appointment. Directors are advised that they have access to 
the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Garry Barnes, 
who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed 
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The 
Board may seek independent legal and financial advice in the 
furtherance of its duties, at the Company's expense. 
A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each 
Director in advance of each scheduled Board or standing 
Committee meeting. The Directors are able to seek further 
clarification and information on any matter from any other Director 
or employee of the Group whenever necessary. Decisions are 
taken by the Board in conjunction with the recommendations of its 
Committees and advice from external consultants, advisors and 
senior management.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board and 
the Chief Executive of the Company are segregated as required 
by Board policy. The Chairman alone is responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and for ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders together with the other executive Directors. The 
Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and decisions 
involving the day-to-day management of the Company. These 
respective responsibilities are set out in writing and have been 
approved by the Board, who consider that the respective roles 
and responsibilities are clearly understood by both individuals and 
by the Board as a whole. 
Corporate Governance report 37 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information
Committees of the Board
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the 
Board has three standing Committees: the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees; each of which includes the three 
independent non-executive Directors. The duties of the Committees 
are set out in formal terms of reference. These are available  
from the Company Secretary and on the Company's website,  
www.melroseplc.net. Membership of the Committees is shown 
above. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of  
the Committees.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises the three independent 
non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Mr Miles Templeman. 
Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant financial 
experience from senior executive and non-executive positions as 
described in their biographies on pages 26 and 27.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head 
of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external 
and internal auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the 
business being considered. In addition, the Audit Committee has 
the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where 
this is considered appropriate. The Audit Committee is expected 
to meet not less than three times a year and the Audit Committee 
met three times during 2009. The attendance of its members, 
along with the Group Finance Director, is shown in the table on 
page 38.
The function of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review 
the effectiveness of the Group's internal control systems, 
accounting policies and practices, financial reporting process, 
risk management procedures and compliance controls. Integrity 
of the Company's financial statements is monitored through the 
review of the Preliminary Results, Interim Statement and Annual 
Report by the Committee before they are presented to the Board 
for approval. 
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Company's policy on  
external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness 
of the auditors. The Company's external auditors are recommended 
for appointment and re-appointment by the Audit Committee 
which also assesses the appropriateness of the scope of audit 
work performed and provides recommendations in respect of 
their remuneration. The Audit Committee receives regular reports 
from the Group's external auditors. 
The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor for the supply of non-audit services and the 
Committee is aware of the audit and non-audit services (including 
taxation advice) which have been provided by Deloitte LLP during 
2009. A significant proportion of the non-audit services related 
to non-recurring work in connection with the provision of tax 
advisory services and the disposal of the Logistex businesses. 
The provision of non-audit services was considered to be 
appropriate, given the external auditors' depth of knowledge of the 
affairs and financial practices of the Group. The Audit Committee 
is satisfied that, notwithstanding non-audit work, Deloitte LLP 
have retained objectivity and independence during the year. The 
Audit Committee will continue to monitor its policy in this regard 
and accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure 
that it does not compromise the independence of the auditors.
Deloitte LLP were appointed in 2003. At each year end  
Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how they believe their 
independence and objectivity have been maintained and they  
are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group 
and subsidiary audits every 5 years. The Group's audit signing 
partner will change as part of that rotation process in 2010.  
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Group's 
capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor.
The Board
Christopher Miller (Executive Chairman)
David Roper (Chief Executive)
Simon Peckham (Chief Operating Officer)
Geoffrey Martin (Group Finance Director)
Miles Templeman (Senior non-executive Director)
Perry Crosthwaite (non-executive Director)
John Grant (non-executive Director)
Remuneration Committee
Perry Crosthwaite (Chairman)
Miles Templeman
John Grant
Nomination Committee
Miles Templeman (Chairman)
Perry Crosthwaite
John Grant
Christopher Miller
Audit Committee
Miles Templeman (Chairman)
Perry Crosthwaite
John Grant 38 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Corporate Governance report
continued
Following the acquisition of FKI plc in July 2008, the size and 
complexity of the Group is such that the implementation of an 
internal audit programme has been deemed appropriate. BM 
Howarth, an external firm that provides internal audit services, 
were appointed as the Group's internal auditors on 3 June 2009. 
A rotation programme is in place, such that every unit will have 
an internal audit at least once every three years, with the largest 
sites reviewed at least once every two years. The internal auditors' 
remit includes assessment of the effectiveness of the internal 
control systems and review of the businesses' balance sheets 
for compliance with the Group's accounting policies. A report of 
key findings and recommendations is presented to the Finance 
Director, Head of Financial Reporting and Operations Controller, 
who are responsible for monitoring divisional management's 
response to these findings. 
Review of the internal audit process and scope of work 
covered by the internal auditors is the responsibility of the Audit 
Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and 
resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under 
review. A report of significant findings is presented by the internal 
auditors to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of 
recommendations by the Board is followed up at the subsequent 
Committee meeting.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the three 
independent non-executive Directors and is chaired by  
Mr Perry Crosthwaite. 
The function of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board on the overall framework and 
policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors and other 
senior management, including performance related remuneration. 
In developing its recommendations, the Committee considers 
Schedule 8 of Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Remuneration Committee is expected to meet not less than 
twice a year and during 2009 the Remuneration Committee 
met three times. The attendance of its members is shown in the 
table on this page. The report to shareholders on how Directors 
are remunerated, together with details of individual Directors' 
remuneration, is shown in the Remuneration report on pages  
40 to 43.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Christopher 
Miller and the three independent non-executive Directors and is 
chaired by Mr Miles Templeman. 
The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and 
composition of the Board, particularly in relation to its balance 
of skills, experience and knowledge, and seeks to ensure that 
both executive and non-executive Directors have the necessary 
skills and attributes for the future success of the Company. The 
Nomination Committee reviews succession plans for the Directors 
and makes recommendations to the Board on membership of the 
Board and of its Committees. The Nomination Committee retains 
external search consultants as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is expected to meet not less than 
twice a year and during 2009 the Nomination Committee met 
three times. The attendance of its members is shown in the table 
on this page.
Attendance at meetings
The table below shows the attendance of each of the Directors 
at the scheduled and significant meetings of the Board and 
its standing Committees held during the year. The quorum 
necessary for the transaction of business by the Board and 
each of its standing Committees is two. Briefing papers and 
meeting agendas are provided to each Director in advance of 
each meeting. Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction 
with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from 
external advisors and senior management as appropriate. The 
representations of any Director who is unable to attend a meeting 
of the Board or a standing Committee are duly considered by 
those Directors in attendance.
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Number of meetings
(1)
 4	 3	 3	 3
Christopher Miller 4 n/a n/a 3
David Roper  4 n/a n/a n/a
Simon Peckham 4 n/a n/a n/a
Geoffrey Martin 4 3
(2)
 n/a n/a
Miles Templeman 4 3 3 3
Perry Crosthwaite 3 3 3 3
John Grant 4 3 3 3
(1) In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum  
of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business. 
(2) Mr Martin attends by invitation. 
Internal control and risk management
Objectives and policy
The objective of the Directors and senior management is to 
safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of 
the Group. Achievement of this objective requires the development 
of policies and appropriate internal control frameworks to ensure 
the Group's resources are managed properly and any key risks 
are identified.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's overall system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the role 
of management is to implement the policies set by the Board in 
respect of risk management and controls. The Directors recognise 
that the systems and processes established by the Board are 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure  
to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute 
assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance 
for Directors set out in the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance 
on Internal Control. In accordance with this guidance, there is an 
ongoing process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, for identifying, 
evaluating, managing and mitigating (where possible) the significant 
risks faced by the Group. This process for reviewing the Group's 
internal controls is consistent with prior years and has been in 
place throughout the 2009 financial year and up to the date of 
approval of the Annual Report. 39 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information
The Group has policies which address a number of key 
business risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety 
and environmental risks. The Group's financial risk management 
objectives and policies are described in the Finance Director's 
review on pages 19 to 25. Other key risks which could adversely 
affect the Group are described in the Chief Executive's review 
on pages 8 and 9; Business reviews on pages 10 to 18; and 
Directors' report on pages 28 to 35. These policies and further 
detailed business unit specific policies are made available to 
employees through manuals and also via specific employee 
briefings and other communications, as appropriate. 
Managing and controlling risk
The Group operates on a decentralised basis and the Directors 
have established an organisational structure with clear reporting 
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority. 
Divisional senior management, plant managers and financial 
controllers have been delegated responsibility by the Board  
for the establishment and implementation of detailed control 
systems as appropriate for their business. 
An established programme of regular review is in place at the 
businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is encouraged 
by the Directors through regular meetings with senior management, 
review of operating performance and progress against business 
plans. The ongoing process of review provides assurance that the 
control environment is operating as intended. 
The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the 
internal control processes implemented across the Group, through 
review of the key findings presented by the external and internal 
auditors and discussions with senior management on an  
ad-hoc basis. The Board is responsible for considering the Audit 
Committee's recommendations in respect of internal controls and 
risk management and ensuring implementation by management 
of those recommendations it deems appropriate for the business. 
Internal financial controls
The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the 
effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal financial controls, 
including strategic business planning and regular monitoring and 
reporting of financial performance. A detailed annual budget is 
prepared by senior management and thereafter is reviewed and 
formally adopted by the Board. The budget and other targets 
are regularly updated via a rolling forecast process and regular 
business review meetings are held involving senior management, 
to assess the divisional and overall Group performance. The 
results of these reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by 
the Board at each meeting.
As discussed in the Audit Committee section on pages 37 and 38 
of this report, BM Howarth has been appointed as the Group's 
internal auditors. Fifteen business units have been visited during 
the year and the Directors are pleased to report that there were no 
material deficiencies and the main recommendations presented in 
the internal auditors' reports of key findings have now been, or are 
in the process of being implemented. A further nineteen business 
units are planned for review during 2010.
The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls,  
it has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that  
it considers require remedial action. The Board also confirms that 
it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal 
control systems that relate to financial reporting. 
Whistleblowing and bribery and corruption policies
The Group has a whistleblowing policy in place which enables 
individuals to make protected disclosures to their divisional  
human resources manager, Group Company Secretary or senior 
independent non-executive Director if they have concerns about 
possible improprieties in financial reporting or other malpractices 
within their business.
A bribery and corruption policy is also in place for the Group  
that requires all employees to act with honesty, integrity and 
transparency and conduct themselves in a lawful, ethical and 
professional manner. Under the policy employees are not to offer 
or solicit any bribe, or similar inducement, and are required to 
report any offer of a bribe or unorthodox payment. 
Communications with shareholders
Principally via the executive Directors, the Company seeks to  
build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its institutional 
shareholders through regular meetings and presentations 
following announcements of Annual and Interim Results. The 
senior independent non-executive Director, Mr Miles Templeman, 
is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be 
unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention. The views 
of key analysts and major shareholders are communicated back 
to the Board directly by individual Directors and via the Company's 
brokers, ensuring all members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Corporate information is available on the Company's website, 
www.melroseplc.net. 
The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the AGM 
and the attendance of all Directors is required. The number of proxy 
votes cast for and against each of the resolutions proposed is 
announced at the AGM and a summary will be available shortly 
after the AGM on the Company's website.
 
By order of the Board
Garry Barnes
Secretary
10 March 2010