 41 Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 |
 
Corporate Governance
Corporate governance
Governance supporting Tribal's evolution
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance, integrity and business ethics across Tribal, and we 
support the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code).  We are pleased to report that throughout 2012 the 
Group has complied with main principles and the supporting 
principles of the Code.
Tribal has, over the past two years, evolved substantially.  
Effective and proportionate governance, ensuring robust 
management of change while adapting to the new 
circumstances of the business, has been at the forefront of the 
Board's collective minds.  During 2012, key areas of focus for 
the Board have included:
 securing a new non-exective director to bring additional 
operational and technology-based expertise to the Board;
 monitoring progress against our three year strategy plan;
 monitoring the key strategic risks affecting the business, 
and the sufficiency of mitigating controls and actions to 
address those risks;
 ensuring our talent management and succession planning 
keeps pace with the development of the business, 
particularly internationally;
 consideration of the commercial aspects of major new 
contracts, particularly in relation to the SALM contract;
 reviewing the Group's pension obligations, and the 
approach to managing those obligations going forward;
 approving the acquisition of i-graduate towards the end of 
the year; and
 continuing to evaluate the Board's performance, and to 
seek ways to improve its performance.
This report provides a detailed explanation of how we fulfil and 
comply with our corporate governance responsibilities.
Board of directors
The Board currently comprises six directors: Simon Ball, 
Steve Breach, Keith Evans, Katherine Innes Ker, Robin Crewe 
and John Ormerod.  The terms and conditions of all directors are 
available for inspection on request from the company secretary 
and will be available for inspection at the forthcoming AGM. 
On 3 July 2012, Robin Crewe was appointed to the Board, and 
following Caledonia Investment plc's sale of its holding in Tribal, 
Mathew Masters, who joined the board on 21 October 2009 
and is an associate director of Caledonia, resigned from the 
Board in order to focus on his other commitments. 
The non-executive directors bring a wide range of skills and 
experience to the Board, including building large and mid-cap 
public company businesses, hands-on operational experience 
and strategy development and implementation.  The non-
executive directors meet at least once a year without the 
executive directors present.
The Board believes that the non-executive directors are 
independent as defined by the Code.  The Chairman was 
considered independent on appointment.  The senior 
independent non-executive director is Katherine Innes Ker.
The Chairman, John Ormerod, has other significant time 
commitments.  Overall, these have not changed materially 
during the year and they do not affect his ability to devote 
sufficient time to the Company's activities.
John Ormerod is also chairman of the Nomination Committee, 
and Katherine Innes Ker is chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.  Simon Ball is chairman of the Audit Committee and 
has the relevant experience to chair this Committee as required 
by the Code.
As Tribal has moved forward, so 
the Board has needed to be agile in 
its approach.  Our attention is now 
focused on overseeing Tribal's growth, 
internationalisation, and evolution into a 
technology-based business.
John Ormerod, Chairman Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 |
 
Corporate Governance 42
Corporate governance
continued
All directors are appointed by the Board as a whole following 
recommendations from the Nomination Committee. The non-
executive directors and the Chairman were initially appointed for 
a three-year term.  None of the executive directors has a service 
contract with a notice period greater than 12 months.  Details 
of all payments to directors are included in the Remuneration 
report on pages 47 to 55.
Each director is required to submit himself/herself for re-election 
annually at the AGM.  Save for Robin Crewe, all directors were 
re-elected at the 2012 AGM on 16 May 2012.
The Board exercises full and effective control over the Group.  
The Board maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved for 
the Board's decision, and its responsibilities include strategy and 
management of performance, acquisitions, capital expenditure 
and safeguarding the Group's assets.  The actual results of the 
Group and a summary of operating company performance are 
reported to all members of the Board.  Executive members of 
the Board meet formally with division management on a monthly 
basis to review business performance and to discuss operational 
and strategic issues.  Key points from these meetings are 
discussed at Group Board meetings.
The Companies Act imposes a statutory duty on directors to 
avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.  The Company's 
Articles of Association, adopted in May 2010, allow the directors 
to authorise conflicts of interest, and the Board has adopted 
a policy and effective procedures for managing and, where 
appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.  
This is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings and gives 
each director the opportunity to raise any conflict of interest they 
may have, or to update the Board on any change to a previous 
conflict of interest already lodged.  A register of conflicts is held 
by the company secretariat and referred to when decisions are 
made.  All directors are aware that it is their responsibility to 
raise and update any conflicts of interest they may have.
A procedure exists for the Board of directors, in the furtherance 
of their duties, to take independent professional advice if 
necessary, at the Company's expense.  All directors have 
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary 
who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that all rules, 
regulations and agreed procedures are observed.
On appointment, and throughout their tenure, directors receive 
briefings and training on matters relevant to their responsibilities.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and 
clearly defined.  The Chairman is primarily responsible for the 
running of the Board and the Chief Executive for the running 
of the Group.  Information is provided to the Board on a timely 
basis.  In advance of each Board meeting, directors receive a 
board pack including monthly management accounts, a review 
of performance, and a corporate governance update.
An evaluation of the Board's effectiveness, and the effectiveness 
of its committees, was conducted in the second half of 
2012 and focused on a number of areas, including those 
concerned with best practice based on the principles of good 
governance.  The evaluation was conducted internally by the 
Group Legal Counsel through a series of one-to-one interviews, 
the results of which were reported to the Board in December.  
Interviews focused on how the board functions as a unit, board 
composition, the tone set by the chairman (including the chair 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees), the relationship 
between the executive and non-executive directors, the range of 
topics covered at Board meetings, and the quality of papers and 
presentations and of discussions in Board meetings.
The Board concluded that the Board and its committees 
continue to operate effectively but that certain areas of its 
effectiveness could be improved.  An action plan to address 
these has been approved and will be implemented and 
monitored during the year. 
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2012
Board
Audit
committee
Nominations 
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Number of meetings in period 12 4 4 6
Number of meetings attended by members:
John Ormerod 12 446
Keith Evans 12---
Steve Breach 12---
Simon Ball 12 445
Katherine Innes Ker 12 435
Robin Crewe
1
6---
Mat Masters
2
8---
1
 Robin Crewe was appointed as a non-executive director on 3 July 2012.
2
 Mat Masters resigned as a non-executive director on 14 August 2012.
Number of meetings in period
Number of meetings attended by members:
John Ormerod
Keith Evans
Steve Breach
Simon Ball
Katherine Innes Ker
Robin Crewe
1
Mat Masters
2
Board
Audit
committee
Nominations
committee
Remuneration 
committee
12 4 4 6
12 4 4 6
12 - - -
12 - - -
12 4 4 5
12 4 3 5
6 - - -
8 - - - 43 Tribal Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 |
 
Corporate Governance
The performance of each individual director was also assessed.  
The Group Finance Director was appraised by the Chief 
Executive, and the Chief Executive was appraised by the 
Chairman.  The executive and non-executive directors, led by 
the senior independent director, assessed the performance of 
the Chairman.  The non-executive directors' performance was 
reviewed by the Chairman, taking into account the views of the 
other directors.
Board committees
The Board has established three committees to deal with matters 
in accordance with written terms of reference.  They are an 
Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration 
Committee.  The chairmen of the Board committees will be 
available to answer questions at the 2013 AGM.
Terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees can be found on the Company's website, www.
tribalgroup.com, are available on request from the Company 
Secretary and will be available for inspection at the forthcoming 
AGM.  It is the general practice of each committee to invite all 
directors to attend committee meetings where appropriate.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Ormerod.  Its 
members are Simon Ball and Katherine Innes Ker.  The Chief 
Executive attends meetings by invitation.  The Committee deals 
with appointments to the Board, monitors potential conflicts of 
interest, and reviews annually the independence of the non-
executive directors.  The Committee is responsible for proposing 
candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to 
the balance and structure of the Board.  Suitable candidates 
for non-executive roles are, where appropriate, identified by 
use of external recruitment consultancies, and the Committee 
would expect to use a similar process in the future when a new 
appointment to the Board is being made.
During 2012, the Committee met four times and recommended 
to the Board the appointment of Robin Crewe as an additional 
non-executive director.  He was subsequently appointed to the 
Board on 3 July 2012, and brings operational experience and 
strong technological expertise, complementing Tribal's strategic 
direction.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Katherine Innes Ker.  
Simon Ball and John Ormerod are also members. 
The Committee met six times during the period under review 
and on behalf of the Board sets the remuneration packages 
for the directors, including basic salary, bonuses and other 
incentive-related compensation payments and awards.  The 
Committee considers, and if appropriate approves, policy and 
framework proposals made by executive directors in respect of 
the remuneration for senior executives within the Group.  The 
Committee is assisted by the Company Secretary and takes 
advice as appropriate frm external advisers.  The Remuneration 
report is set out on pages 47 to 55.
Shareholder relations
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are the Group's 
principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, 
the press and other interested parties.  Access is available to 
the Chairman and/or the senior independent director and other 
non-executive directors if this is required. The Chairman has 
met with a number of the principal shareholders in the period 
under review.  The full Board is kept informed about shareholder 
relations and in particular the senior independent director is 
kept informed of the views of major shareholders.  This is done 
by a combination of reports to the Board on meetings held 
and feedback to the Board from the Group's advisers.  The 
Group holds briefing meetings with analysts and institutional 
shareholders, usually following the half year and final results 
announcements, to ensure that the investment community 
receives a balanced and complete view of the Group's 
performance and the issues faced by the business.
The Group provides financial statements to all shareholders 
twice a year when its half year and full year results are 
announced and provides interim management statements as 
required.  The AGM is attended by all directors and private 
investors are encouraged to participate in the meeting.
These results and all other Stock Exchange announcement 
information are available on the Group's website www.
tribalgroup.com.  We are aware that a growing number 
of shareholders are taking advantage of improvements in 
technology and accessing the wealth of information on 
corporate websites.  Recent changes in legislation and the 
necessary authority having been passed at our 2007 AGM mean 
that we are able to offer electronic copies of the report and 
accounts, notice of AGM and other documents addressed to 
shareholders.