 Statement by the Directors on compliance 
with the Combined Code
The Board supports the highest standards in corporate governance
and has sought throughout the year to 31 March 2005, to 
comply with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance published in July 2003 and appended to the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, with due regard to 
the size and needs of the Company and with reference to best
practice. As defined in the Combined Code, the Company would
be classed as  smaller company' as it is outside the FTSE 350.
Statement of compliance
The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require the
Board to report on compliance with the provisions contained in
section 1 of the Combined Code for the year under review.
The Board considers that the Company complies and has
complied throughout the financial year with the provisions of 
the Combined Code save for the following exceptions:
1. A majority of members of the Nomination Committee should 
be independent Non-Executive Directors. The membership 
of the Nomination Committee did not comprise a majority of
independent Non-Executive Directors. To ensure future compliance
two non-independent Non-Executive Directors have resigned and 
the Company is currently seeking an additional independent 
Non-Executive Director.
2. The Board should establish an Audit Committee and
Remuneration Committee of at least two independent 
Non-Executive Directors in the case of smaller companies. 
Two of the three Non-Executive Directors forming the Audit
Committee and Remuneration Committee are not independent
Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee is Dr Derek Pearce who has served more than nine
years on the Board of Directors. Dr Derek Pearce is considered 
by the Board to be independent of management and free from
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere
with the exercise of his independent judgement, or his ability 
to act in the best interests of the Company. For part of the year 
Mr John Morris had been a member but, following a review of 
the membership of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee
and the Board, in light of the requirements of the Combined Code
and best practice, Mr John Morris resigned on 31 December
2004. The Company is currently seeking an additional
independent Non-Executive Director.
3. The Board should ensure that at least one member of the 
Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Whilst the Audit Committee does not have a member with a
recognised accounting qualification, the Board has reviewed the
membership and performance of the Committee and is of the
opinion that the experience of the Non-Executive Directors and the
Chairman, combined with independent external support continues
to be appropriate for the Group. To ensure future compliance the
Company is seeking to recruit a new independent Non-Executive
Director who can fulfil this role.
4. As the Board and its Committees have not yet completed
their recomposition process, no formal evaluation has been made
of the Board's effectiveness this year.
Board composition and role
The Board has ultimate responsibility and accountability for 
the Company's operations. The Board comprises two Executive 
and three Non-Executive Directors. It is chaired by Dr J Rowell. 
The Executive Directors are the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Finance Director. The Non-Executive Directors have a 
breadth of successful commercial and professional experience. 
Dr J Rowell and Sir C Evans are non-independent Non-Executive
Directors, and Dr D Pearce is regarded as an independent
Non-Executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that the Executive and Non-Executive
Directors of the Board are well balanced, that no individual or
group of individuals is or has been in a position to dominate the
Board's decision-making and that there is a substantial degree of
independence and diversity.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it,
including overall strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, 
major capital expenditure, exposure to key business risks,
approval of annual and interim reports, accounts and budgets,
changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and the determination of the remuneration policy of Directors 
and senior management. The Board is accountable to
shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable
financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the
Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring
its effectiveness, setting the agenda for and conducting Board
meetings, ensuring that all Directors receive sufficient, accurate
and relevant information on financial, business and corporate
issues and maintaining effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management
and performance of the Company's business, the development,
recommendation and implementation of the Company's strategy
and budget and setting the overall policy and direction of all
business operations.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Chairman
and the Board on all matters concerning corporate governance. 
He supports the Chairman in ensuring the provision of sufficient,
accurate and relevant information to the Board and its Committees.
The Board has adopted guidelines for individual Directors to
obtain independent professional advice at the Group's expense in
appropriate circumstances in addition to the access to the advice of
the Company Secretary.
The Board held four Board meetings during the year. The Chairman
held two meetings in the year with the Non-Executive Directors
without the Executive Directors present.
Corporate governance
24 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2005 The following table shows the attendance of Directors at the Board
and Committee meetings held during the year under review:
Board Audit Remuneration 
meetings Committee Committee
Number of meetings 4 2 3
JRowell 4 2 3
CEvans 2 1 1
DPearce 4 2 3
JLeCoque 4 2 N/A
CMadrolle 4 2 N/A
JMorris 2 1 2
PGrant 3 N/A N/A
The Company has put in place an organisational structure with
clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Executive management meet monthly to monitor and discuss all
major issues affecting the Company which do not require Board
discussion or approval by other Board Committees. 
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors bring individual judgement to Board
decisions and extensive experience at a senior level of business
operation and practice. As disclosed on page 21 one of the 
Non-Executive Directors, Sir C T Evans, has a significant
shareholding in the Company. The Company does not consider
that this impairs the independence of this Non-Executive Director
when balanced with the considerable expertise he provides to the
Company. Sir C T Evans has no financial interest in the Company
other than through any shareholding and the fees he earns for 
his services. The senior independent Non-Executive Director is 
Dr D R Pearce.
Availability of information
Executive management has a responsibility to provide the Board
with any information of which it is aware that is relevant to the
discharge of the Board's responsibilities. The Board receives timely
advice on material information regarding the Company. 
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committee. All are formally constituted with written
terms of reference. The Terms of reference are available on
request from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises not less than three Non-Executive
Directors. The Company Secretary is the secretary of the
Committee. At the year end the Audit Committee members were 
Dr J Rowell, Sir C T Evans and Dr D R Pearce. It meets at 
least twice annually and assists the Board in ensuring that the
Company's published financial statements give a true and fair
view and that reliable internal financial information is produced
for decision-making, in compliance with legal requirements,
accounting standards, and the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority. In addition to considering and making
recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment,
remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Group's auditors,
the Committee also keeps under review the independence and
objectivity of the Group's external auditors and value for money 
of the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the
non-audit services provided by the auditors. The Committee has
discussed with the external auditors their independence, and 
has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external
auditors, as required by the Auditing Standard Board's Statement
of Auditing Standards No. 610  Communication of audit matters
to those charged with governance'. In order to avoid the
possibility that the auditors' objectivity and independence could
be compromised, the Group's tax consulting work is only carried
out by the auditors in cases where they are best suited to perform
the work, for example, tax compliance and advisory work relating
to the audit. 
The Group does not normally award general consulting work to
the auditors but has recently asked The Monks Partnership, a
trading name of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, to provide advice
and a report on best practice concerning the Executive Directors'
Long Term Incentive Performance Share Plan.
The Committee also reviews the suitability and effectiveness of the
Company's internal controls and meets twice a year to review the
half year interim results, and before the release of the preliminary
announcement of the annual results to review the previous year's
results and audit findings. The Chief Executive Officer and the
Finance Director attend all meetings in order to ensure that all 
of the information required by the Audit Committee is available 
for it to operate effectively.
The Code requires that the Annual Report separately describes 
the work of the Audit Committee and how it discharges 
its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee focuses particularly on compliance with 
legal requirements, accounting standards and the Code, and 
on ensuring that an effective system of internal financial controls 
is maintained.
25 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2005 
Corporate governance During the year the Committee met on two occasions with the
Company's external auditors.
The principal issues addressed by the Committee during the 
year were:
- the external auditors' year end report for the financial year
ending 31 March 2004, the approval of the Company's
preliminary results for recommendation to the Board and
approval of its Annual Report disclosures;
- the effectiveness of internal controls, including consideration 
of the external auditors' findings and recommendations;
- the Company's implementation of International Financial
Reporting Standards;
- the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
independent auditors;
- the risk management process;
- the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls.
The Board confirms that it has not taken a different position to 
that of the Audit Committee in relation to the appointment of the
external auditors.
The effectiveness of the Audit Committee is reviewed by the 
Board annually.
The Audit Committee reviews the financial integrity of the Group's
financial statements, including relevant corporate governance
statements prior to Board submission.
The Board is required by the Code to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company's position and
prospects. In relation to this requirement reference is made 
to the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for preparing 
the financial statements set out on page 28. The independent
Auditors' Report on page 29 includes a statement about their
reporting responsibilities.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the full Board of Directors
of the Company. The Committee meets as required to select and
propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre
for appointment of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
To ensure compliance with the Combined Code the Nomination
Committee s composition and its terms of reference will need to 
be reviewed.
Its main responsibilities will include:
- reviewing the size and the composition of the Board, taking
into account the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
on the Board and recommending any changes;
- selecting candidates for appointment to the Board to meet the
desired composition;
- ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous, transparent procedure
for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Board effectiveness
Under the new Combined Code the Board is required each 
year to carry out a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own
performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairman's performance must be undertaken
by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the senior independent
Non-Executive Director.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company's 
financial statements.
Investor relations
The Executive Directors regularly meet with institutional
shareholders and analysts throughout the year to discuss 
the progress of the Group. The Annual General Meeting of
shareholders is used as an opportunity to communicate with
private investors. In addition, other means of communication
include Company presentations, press releases and interim and
annual reports. The Group publishes its statutory accounts on its
website, providing information on the Group, to a wider audience
of shareholders.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that dialogue with
shareholders takes place and is based on a mutual understanding
of objectives.
Dr Derek Pearce is the senior independent Non-Executive Director
who can meet with major shareholders if they have concerns
which contact through the normal channel of Chairman, Chief
Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that
the Group maintains an adequate system of risk management and
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such systems
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in
a fast-moving high technology business and can, therefore, only
provide reasonable and no absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that ongoing processes for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant business, operational,
financial, compliance and other risks facing the Group have been
in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval
of the annual report and financial statements.
These ongoing processes accord with the Guidance for Directors
on the Combined Code, known as the Turnbull Report. The Board
confirms that there is no change since the last annual assessment in
the nature and extent of significant risks and the Group's ability to
respond to changes in its business and the external environment.
26 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance A risk review team made up of senior managers and chaired by
the Finance Director discuss on a regular basis the most significant
areas of risk and the key control objectives.
The Company has established an integrated risk management
framework with the aim of continuing to ensure that the business
understands the key risks it faces, and has an ongoing approach
to further embed internal controls and risk management into the
operations of the business and to deal with areas for improvement
which are brought to the Board's attention on a quarterly basis,
allowing it to build up a cumulative assessment of the state of
control in the Group, and the effectiveness with which risk is
being managed.
The Board has put in place a documented organisational structure
which clearly defines lines of responsibility and delegation of
authority from the Board to operating units.
The Company's control environment is ultimately the responsibility
of the Directors and managers at all levels. Financial control
procedures operate throughout the Company to ensure the
integrity of the Company's financial statements.
Through the Audit Committee the Board has reviewed the
effectiveness of internal controls. The Company's organisational
structure has established clear responsibilities and lines of
accountability. Employees are required to follow clearly laid 
out internal procedures and policies appropriate to the business
and their position within the organisation. These internal
procedures and policies include arrangements by which staff
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties
in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Board has evaluated the performance of the Audit Committee
and confirms that there are arrangements in place for considering
financial reporting and internal control principles and for
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Group's auditors.
The Board has examined the Group's public reporting process
succinctly described above under Investor Relations and is
satisfied with its effectiveness.
Compliance controls 
Documented quality procedures are in place to ensure the
maintenance of global regulatory compliance. These are subject
to periodic review to ensure current standards of quality
compliance are maintained. Quality Groups monitor compliance
with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and ISO standards through
the implementation of internal compliance programmes.
Financial reporting
The Board recognises that an essential part of its responsibility 
is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of
liabilities and the accurate reporting of profits. Detailed policy
and procedures manuals have been established for operating
units. Accounting policies, capital expenditure authorisation,
general authorisation levels and treasury procedures allow 
the Executive Directors to monitor controls and restrict the
unauthorised use of assets.
Experienced and suitably qualified staff take responsibility for key
business functions. Annual appraisal procedures are established
which ensure that high standards of performance are maintained.
The Group operates a budgeting system with an annual operating
budget approved by the Board of Directors. A comprehensive
financial reporting system, as a matter of routine, compares 
actual results to budget and previous year. Full management
accounts are issued within 10 working days following the 
month-end. Variations from budget are thoroughly investigated
with corrective action taken by the Directors as appropriate. 
The Group has a comprehensive system for regular reporting 
to the Board. Full financial forecast updates are produced on a
quarterly basis and are approved by the Board. The Company
reports to shareholders twice a year.
Internal audit
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function
and has concluded that the Group is not large enough to warrant 
an internal auditor. The Group does however have an operational
internal audit function that audits the Product Group and
Laboratory Group's core business processes, which are
documented and continuously improved, for both effectiveness
and efficiency. In addition these processes are audited externally
by independent auditors for compliance with ISO 9000, and
FDA, DEA and EPA.
Treasury management
The Group has a detailed Treasury Policy which specifies the 
need to identify, monitor and manage funds and financial risks.
Regular reporting requirements to the Board are laid down,
together with authorised financial instruments, authorised dealing
personnel and performance measurement. Monthly reports are
reviewed and discussions held to monitor the performance against
other yardsticks. Cash balances are monitored on a daily basis
and regular cash flow forecasts are prepared.
Investment appraisal
The Group has a formal policy for authorisation for all capital
expenditure. Major capital purchases, including acquisitions, 
are subject to Board approval. 
Research and development
Key controls are in place to ensure that the Group controls 
and directs its research and development. The Group employs
qualified staff to manage patent, legal, environmental and
regulatory issues. Any major new initiative is submitted for the
Board's approval.
27 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2005 
Corporate governance Statement of Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial period which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group, and of
the profit or loss of the Group for the period. In preparing these
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
- select suitable accounting policies and to apply 
them consistently;
- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
- state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the financial statements. The Directors
are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and the Group and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company website. Information published on the internet 
is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Christian Madrolle 
Company Secretary 
14 June 2005
28 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2005
Corporate governance