 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
Corporate
Responsibility
As a Group operating in eighteen African countries
and in sectors as diverse as agribusiness, hotels,
infrastructure and support services, Lonrho's
approach to corporate responsibility reflects the
variety of risks and opportunities faced by its
businesses. At the same time, stakeholders need to
depend upon a sufficiently consistent approach that
they can understand what to expect from the Lonrho
brand of companies.
Using a principles
and values based
framework, the
Group is applying
a more strategic
and consistent
approach to
corporate
responsibility .
Lonrho continues to support the United Nations
Global Compact with its ten principles in the area
of human rights, labour, environment and anti-
corruption. These principles are also consistent
with the Group's own corporate responsibility
values which were developed in 2011 and
continue to be embedded across all of its
operations. 
2012 has been a year of review of the Group's
corporate responsibility practices, a focus on our
management systems and the establishment of
minimum requirements for all subsidiaries.
At head office, Lonrho's Directors and some of
the divisional managers have received training on
environmental and social risk management. Our
business development processes now
incorporate a requirement to take into account
these risks at the earliest stages of a transaction
proposal and subsidiaries must report quarterly
not only on their business operations but also on
any corporate responsibility issues that may have
arisen or been addressed in their operations. 
A number of corporate policies and procedures
on Environmental Management, Community
Investment, Human Resources, Human Rights,
Local Procurement, Stakeholder Engagement,
Quality Management, and Whistleblowing have
either been updated or are under development
(incorporating full consultation with our
subsidiaries).
The Company has attained ISO 14001 on
Environmental Management Systems and
ISO 9001 for Quality Management.
The system of having corporate responsibility
officers in each subsidiary is having a valuable
effect to improve and embed a more consistent
understanding of how to practically apply
Lonrho's corporate responsibility values. To
encourage excellence, in 2012 the Company
announced there would be an internal annual
competition for the best corporate responsibility
programme of an operating company, the Cook
Award. 
Luba Freeport has been awarded the Cook Award
in 2012 in recognition for their outstanding
approach to improving the opportunities
available to their staff and the surrounding
communities. Through a comprehensive
programme of occupational training and
education for members of the community, many
lives have been improved at Luba. The award was
presented in February 2013 and includes a
donation to a local charity supported by the
subsidiary and a bonus to the manager and team
involved in the work. 
During 2013, Lonrho will develop a number of
non-financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
relating to each corporate responsibility value.
Baselines will then be captured and reported
against in future Annual Reports. 
A short description of some practical activities
that Lonrho has taken to implement its five
corporate responsibility values and the UN Global
Compact principles is presented below. More
detail on such activities are found on the
subsidiaries' own websites. 
Investing in our workforce and their wellbeing 
(UN Global Compact Labour Principles)
We have updated all human resources policies
and procedures for staff at headquarters and are
working with all our subsidiaries to ensure that
minimum requirements are achieved across the
Group in 2013. 
In August 2012, Luba Freeport presented to the
Ministry of Labour in Equatorial Guinea the Luba
Freeport nationalisation programme. This
programme is designed to maximise the number
of local staff at Luba- currently 80 per cent. All
new employment opportunities are advertised in
the Ministry of Labour, local tv and radio. Training
of the local workforce in a wide range of
occupational skills has enabled Luba Freeport to
consistently meet international standards of
operations.
Oceanfresh successfully completed an external
social audit undertaken by Intertek Group Plc on
behalf of Costco in May 2012. It will be repeated
each year. 
Lonrho Logistics is on track to attain the
international standard ISO 18001 on
Occupational Health and Safety at its
Johannesburg, Cape Town, George and Port
Elizabeth branches in South Africa. 38
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Corporate Responsibility continued
Luba regularly assist the local hospital by supplying medicines and mosquito nets and providing the
assistance of Dr. Suhas Narayan Patil (above) with consultations or medical procedures.
Supporting communities
We will be developing a Group Community
Investment Policy and a Group Stakeholder
Engagement Policy during 2013.
In 2012, Lonrho concluded a Feasibility Study into
a planned Oil Services Terminal in the Western
Region of Ghana. Throughout the Feasibility
Study, which included a full Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment, Lonrho has prioritised
its engagement with stakeholders in the project
area. By directly engaging with the three
communities who stand to be most affected by
the project, Lonrho has established constructive
relationships which reflect mutual respect and
trust. As well as holding regular meetings with
traditional leaders and government
representatives, Lonrho continues to discuss the
project and its expected impacts with
development agencies, non-governmental
organisations and local stakeholders such as
fishermen, farmers, women and the elderly. Such
consultations provide important input into the
design of both mitigation measures and ways to
enhance the wealth of opportunities the project
is anticipated to bring.
Lonrho realised that often stakeholder
engagement activities can overlook the
importance of involving local children. However,
it is especially important for children to be
informed and engaged by the opportunities
envisaged. A special art project was created, with
the support of the local primary and junior
schools in each community. Each school was
visited and the proposed Oil Services Terminal
explained. Pictures of rigs, vessels, cranes and a
graphic representation of the terminal were
posted on the community noticeboards. Paper,
crayons, pencils and paints were distributed to
each school and children were asked to use their
imagination and draw their vision of the new Oil
Services Terminal. The children and the schools
put in a huge amount of effort and we are
grateful for their support in the project. Each
school put forward its best pictures and members
of the Livelihood Restoration Committee
selected a winner from each school with one
overall winner. Prizes, including a new computer
for the school, were awarded in November 2012
by the Vice President of Ghana's wife, Mrs Matilda
Amissah-Arthur.
Conducting our business with integrity (UN
Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles)
In addition to the Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Policy, Lonrho has developed a Whistle-blowing
Policy, which has been disseminated throughout
the Group. To date no incidents have been
reported.
Strengthening the local economy
Research has shown that companies already
operating on the Continent are overwhelmingly
positive about Africa's prospects and potential. In
contrast, those who do not currently invest are
surprisingly pessimistic. Lonrho is therefore
excited to announce that it has become a
founding partner in a new initiative,  Invest in
Africa' (IIA). IIA aims to challenge the perceptions
of business on the Continent and so inspire new
partnership with local African companies to grow
markets and deliver enterprise. 
By harnessing the first-hand experience and
knowledge of firms which have been successfully
working in Africa for many years, IIA will bridge
this gap between perception and reality. IIA will
work to demystify the investment process, create
new partnerships and drive growth into local
economies and wider development. 
Luba Freeport medical facility . Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Lonrho's subsidiaries are now keeping records of
the extent to which they source goods and
services from local companies and are
encouraged to develop their own local
procurement policies. Levels of local
procurement will become a Key Performance
Indicator for the Group to report on in due
course.
Hotel Cardoso also provides a complimentary
venue at its Caf  Accaccia for a monthly trade fair
of locally produced handicrafts.
Environmental stewardship
(UN Global Compact's Environment Principles)
The Company has become certified for ISO
14001. In 2013, subsidiaries will be encouraged to
also achieve this international standard in their
own operations.
In line with forthcoming UK legislation, Lonrho is
planning to record greenhouse gas emissions
across its operations and will report on these in
future  Annual Reports.
Oceanfresh is an active certified member of the
Marine Stewardship Council - Chain of Custody,
an active member of the World Wildlife Fund's
South African Sustainable Seafood Initiative and
has passed an international audit on sustainability
and traceability.
As resource security and climate change are
interconnected, and in light of the growing
recognition of the effects that a change in
climate is going to have on business, a number of
measures have been implemented.
Across the Group, water use is being more
closely monitored and efforts made to reduce
consumption and re-use water and recycle
where appropriate. For example, Fresh Direct has
conducted responsible irrigation training to
employees to educate on the sustainable use of
water and the importance of maintaining
irrigation systems to reduce water waste. In 2013,
it is planning to create a drought action plan with
a view to helping local communities, where
possible. 
In addition all Lonrho companies are being
encouraged to reduce their energy consumption.
For example, AFEX has installed solar powered
hot water at its accommodation facilities in Juba,
and Rumbek in South Sudan and Lokichoggio in
Kenya. 
All Lonrho companies are also being encouraged
to reduce, re-use and recycle materials used in
their operations. 
Lonrho Logistics tests all vehicles for carbon
emissions and has introduced fuel saver plans by
using locally developed fuel additives to reduce
fuel consumption and carbon emissions on all
fleet vehicles.
UN Global Compact Human Rights Principles
Lonrho's approach to corporate responsibility
does not include a stand-alone value on
respecting human rights because it is covered
across its other five corporate responsibility
values. However, a Group Human Rights Policy is
being developed in consultation with our
subsidiaries. It will reflect new international
guidance on how businesses must respect
human rights and will guide the Group on how to
identify and avoid human rights risks in
operations.
Above and top right: Luba Freeport sponsored school, Centro Prescolar Virgin de Montserrat. 