 GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
53
Audit Committee Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I set out 
below our report on its operation and activities 
in 2011, which particularly included financial 
oversight of the BSS Group integration. During 
the year, I was pleased to welcome Ruth 
Anderson as member of the Committee, a role to 
which she brings extensive financial experience.
Role of the audit committee
The Committee is primarily responsible for:
  The integrity of the financial statements of 
the Company and any formal announcements 
relating to the Company's financial 
performance, and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgments contained 
therein;
  Reviewing the Company's internal financial 
controls and its internal control and risk 
management systems;
  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Company's internal audit function;
  Reviewing the audit plans of the external 
auditors and for monitoring the conduct of the 
audit;
  Reviewing the external auditors' independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the 
audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements;
  Reviewing and implementing the Company's 
policy on the engagement of the external 
auditors to supply non-audit services, taking 
into account relevant guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by an external 
audit firm;
  Making recommendations to the Board, for 
a resolution to be put to the shareholders in 
relation to the appointment and remuneration 
of the external auditors.
After each meeting, I report to the Board on the 
work of the Committee, identifying any matters 
where it considers that action or improvement is 
needed, and make recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken.
The Committee's full terms of reference 
are available on the Company's website, or on 
request to the Company Secretary.
Composition of the audit committee 
I was Chairman, and John Coleman was 
a member, of the Committee throughout 
2011. Philip Jansen was also a member until 
December 2011, when Ruth Anderson joined 
the Committee following her appointment to 
the Board in October 2011. All members of the 
Committee are considered to be independent 
and have considerable financial and commercial 
experience from a variety of corporate 
backgrounds. The Company Secretary is 
secretary to the Committee. The Board considers 
that both I and Ruth Anderson have the recent 
and relevant financial experience required by the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (see also the 
board profiles on pages 46 and 47).
Meetings and attendance
The Committee held five meetings during 2011, 
and attendance at the meetings is shown on 
page 49. I also invited the Group Chairman, the 
Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Deputy 
Chief Executive, the Group Financial Controller, 
the Director of Business Risk and Assurance and 
the external auditors to attend the meetings. At 
each meeting I gave the external auditors and 
the Director of Business Risk and Assurance the 
opportunity to discuss with the Committee, any 
matters which they wished to raise without the 
presence of management. In addition, during 
the year, I held a number of meetings with the 
Director of Business Risk and Assurance and 
with the external auditors, without management 
being present. Committee members meet 
regularly with operational and functional staff 
throughout the year and participate in relevant 
technical update programmes. I am satisfied that 
the Committee received sufficient, reliable and 
timely information from management to enable it 
to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
Main activities of the 
committee during the year
At our meeting in February, the Committee 
reviewed the annual financial statements 
of the Company taking into account regular 
management accounting information and reports 
from the internal auditors on internal control 
matters and from the external auditors on the 
conduct of their audit, their review of accounting 
policies, areas of judgment in the financial 
statements and their comments on statements 
concerning risk and internal control. A similar 
review was undertaken at the July meeting when 
the interim statements were considered. At these 
and our other meetings the Committee also 
reviewed:
  Progress with regard to the financial 
integration of the BSS Group and key 
accounting assumptions and judgements 
related thereto, including the fair value of the 
assets acquired;
  The plans for restructuring of the Group 
Finance function in the light of the growth of 
the Group;
  The Group's systems for accounting for 
rebates on product purchases, and stock 
management;
  The policies and training which had been 
implemented in respect of the Bribery Act;
  The internal controls for the new office in 
China;
  The Group's tax planning;
  Proposed revisions to the Group's segmental 
reporting following the BSS acquisition; 
  An evaluation of the Committee's work carried 
out as part of the Board evaluation process 
referred to on page 50; I subsequently 
reported to the Board on this evaluation;
  The Committee's terms of reference; no 
changes were recommended to the Board;
 
 Any comments received on its 2010 report 
from institutional investor bodies;
  The effectiveness of the system of internal 
financial control and the system for monitoring 
and reporting on risks faced by the Group 
taking into account regular reports received 
from financial management, internal and 
external auditors;
  The terms of reference, strategy, staffing, 
processes and effectiveness of the internal 
audit department taking into account the 
results of a survey amongst stakeholders; 
  The status of actions taken in response to  54
recommendations arising from internal and 
external audit work;
  The effectiveness of the Group's 
 whistleblowing' policy;
  The policy on engagement of the external 
auditor for non-audit work, as referred to 
below, and the policy on the employment of 
anyone previously employed by the external 
auditor;
  The plans presented by the external auditor for 
conduct of the year-end audit and half-year 
review including the related risk analyses, 
terms of engagement, fees and letters of 
representation;
  The effectiveness, independence, and 
objectivity of the external auditor, taking 
into account written assurances provided 
by Deloitte LLP , with regard to its quality 
and independence controls, and its ethical 
standards, together with the results of a 
survey of stakeholders and the annual report 
of the Audit Inspection Unit;
  The Group's accounting policies, forthcoming 
changes to International Financial Reporting 
Standards and other regulatory changes and 
various guidance notes issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council;
  The effectiveness of the Group's policies and 
processes for fraud prevention.
No matters of material significance were 
identified by the auditors during the year and 
there were no material audit-related matters that 
were discussed with investors.
Two members of the Committee are also 
members of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the 
Group's remuneration policies are compatible 
with a robust control environment and good 
stewardship. 
The key areas of risk and sensitivity, the 
major accounting policies, and the principal 
assumptions with regard to fair values are 
described in the Annual Report and notes to 
the accounts. The Committee reviewed these 
during the year, taking into account relevant 
external advice, and was satisfied that they were 
appropriate.
External auditors
We place great importance on the effectiveness 
and independence of the external auditors 
and, together with them, are careful to ensure 
their objectivity is not compromised. At our 
October meeting, the auditors presented to the 
Committee their plans for the forthcoming audit 
together with details of their proposed fees 
and how they ensure that their objectivity and 
independence are not compromised. Deloitte 
LLP (or its predecessor firms) is a leading 
international audit partnership, and was first 
appointed as auditor to Group companies more 
than 30 years ago. There are no contractual 
restrictions on the Group with regard to their 
appointment. In accordance with professional 
standards, the partner responsible for the audit 
changes every 5 years; the last change occurred 
in 2010. 
The Committee considers that Deloitte provide 
a high quality, efficient and cost effective audit 
service. Accordingly, following our February 2012 
meeting at which we reviewed the 2011 audit 
process, the Committee recommended to the 
Board that resolutions be put to shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting for the 
re-appointment of the external auditors, and to 
authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
One of the Committee's responsibilities is 
to ensure compliance with the Board's policy 
in respect of services provided by, and fees 
paid to, the auditors. Audit fees, which are 
regularly compared with peer companies by 
the Committee, are initially negotiated by the 
Finance Director, but are then approved by 
the Committee. The policy in relation to other 
services that could be provided by the external 
auditors, which has been approved by the Board, 
can be summarised as follows:
General principles
There is a presumption against the external 
auditors providing non-audit services and they 
should only be selected for such work where its 
nature makes it more timely and cost effective to 
select advisors who have a good understanding 
of the Group or the work is of a particularly 
confidential or specialist nature. The external 
auditors should not provide non-audit services 
where either the nature of the work or the extent 
of such services might impair their independence 
or objectivity. Any engagement of the external 
auditors for non-audit work with a fee over 
 25,000 requires my approval.
Areas of work 
The policy sets out certain non-audit services 
where it would be usual to engage the external 
auditors, such as regulatory reviews and some 
tax services, and those where their engagement 
is not permitted, such as work relating to the 
design of financial information systems. I am 
consulted in relation to any proposed work not 
covered by the list.
Value of work
Non-audit services require approval as follows:
  Up to  5,000 - no formal approval is required 
provided the work is permitted under the list 
referred to above;
   5,000 to  25,000 - Group Finance Director;
   25,000 to  50,000 - Group Finance Director 
and Committee Chairman;
   50,000 and above - Group Finance 
Director and Committee Chairman following a 
competitive tender.
Formal approval by the Committee is also 
required if the aggregated level of forecast fees 
for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the 
statutory audit fee.
Reporting
The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly 
to the Committee on fees for non-audit services 
payable to the auditors.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during 
the year the Auditors were paid  401k (2010; 
 404k) for audit-related work, and  299k (2010: 
 689k) for non-audit work.
The principal item of non-audit fees was 
 182k related to specialist taxation advice 
associated with the acquisition of BSS Group 
plc. In addition, non-audit fees included a 
review of the interim statements and audit work 
Audit Committee report GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
55
undertaken in respect of US private placement 
notes issued by BSS prior to acquisition. In 
view of Deloitte's detailed understanding of the 
Group's operations and accounting policies, 
and being mindful of future Auditor reporting 
obligations, the Audit Committee decided that 
it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this 
work. In addition,  119k (2010:  514k) of fees 
was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit 
work.
The Committee understands that the total 
fees paid by the Group to Deloitte in 2011 
amount to less than 0.03% of Deloitte's UK 
fee income and considers that the Auditors 
independence has not been impaired by the 
non-audit fees paid in 2011.
Internal audit
As well as its reviews of the internal audit 
department's strategy and processes, as 
described above, during its meetings in 2011, 
the Committee received presentations from 
the Director of Business Risk and Assurance, 
about the results of work undertaken by the 
department, and approved its risk-based plans 
for work in 2012. Taking into account the results 
of a stakeholder survey and other reports, 
the Committee was satisfied with the overall 
effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Overview
As a result of our work during the year, and 
taking into account the result of the Board and 
Committee evaluation process described on page 
50, the Committee has concluded that it has 
acted in accordance with its terms of reference 
and has ensured the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external and internal 
auditors. The Committee has also concluded that 
the Group's internal control and risk management 
systems were effective during the year. 
I will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about the work 
of the Committee.
Chris Bunker
Chairman, Audit Committee
21 February 2012