 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report on the remuneration strategy and policy of the Company at the end of yet another very successful year. We firmly believe 
that this continued success is strongly connected with the introduction of our Employee and Executive Bonus Share Schemes in 2009 and 2011. The schemes are designed to 
recognise and reward outstanding performance and have clearly driven shareholder value.
New regulations have come into effect which impact the presentation and disclosure of Directors' remuneration, and the lay-out of this report reflects those new regulations. This 
report is, therefore, presented in two sections: the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Directors' Remuneration Policy.
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on the amounts earned in respect of the year ended 27 April 2014 and will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM. The 
Directors' Remuneration Policy sets out the forward-looking remuneration policy that will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM and shall take binding effect from the end of the 
Company's 2014/15 financial year.
The Remuneration Policy of the Company is aligned to its commercial strategy for long-term, consistent and profitable growth. The remuneration package for Senior Executives is 
highly weighted towards performance-related remuneration, paid mostly in shares, and its design is consistent with the reward philosophy for the wider employee population. This 
strategy is reflective of an extremely strong Executive and employee performance culture and a reward ethos of One Team .
The Company philosophy is that Executive remuneration should be simple, transparent and directly support the delivery of the business strategy and shareholder return. The 
Executive Directors' basic salaries have been deliberately set at a level well below the lower quartile of a business of the size and complexity of the Group. Indeed these salaries 
have remained the same since 2002 and again will not increase in 2014/15. Also, the Senior Executives currently enjoy no additional benefits from the Company.
The Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus. Rather, to drive sustained long-term business performance, instead of granting smaller awards on an annual basis, 
larger upfront awards are granted which only vest if significant and consistent growth is delivered year on year. Annual performance targets which must be hit ensure a focus is 
maintained on a consistent and long-term profitable growth strategy. The extended time horizon for vesting of awards for the 2011 Executive Bonus Share Scheme is six years (in 
2017). 
Clear, published and stretching annual performance targets must be fully satisfied before any of the share awards vest. Aligned to the Company's high performance culture, the 
Employee and Executive Bonus Share Schemes are designed on the basis that awards should vest in full for achieving stretching targets (i.e. with an `all or nothing' vesting 
schedule) rather than providing for a lower level of vesting for meeting a threshold target rising to full vesting for achieving the stretch targets (i.e. a scaled vesting schedule). 
Because the Executive Directors' remuneration opportunity is highly weighted towards performance-related remuneration which will not vest if stretching performance targets 
aligned with the business strategy are not met, they share risk with the shareholders. The size of these performance-only awards should be considered in this context.
The Remuneration Committee firmly believes that this simple and very transparent share incentive framework is totally aligned with both the Company strategy for growth and its 
performance culture. We also believe that this strategy has directly driven the historic and continued out-performance of stretch targets originally set by the Committee by further 
aligning Executive and employee remuneration potential to increased and on-going shareholder value. This increased share value incentive has also led to a further  lifting of the 
performance bar' for future awards.
There is no doubt that since the inception of the current remuneration strategy in 2009, it has clearly led to strong shareholder value increases during a difficult economic period, 
and has provided a strong platform for the on-going and long-term success of the Company.
Specifically tailored to Company culture and growth strategy we continue to review the robustness of the scheme. During 2013/14 the Remuneration Committee re-assessed the 
shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and determined that the Executive Directors must now hold a minimum shareholding of 50,000 while they remain employed by the 
Company. As noted on page 39 Dave Forsey's shareholding on 27 April 2014 meant that he satisfied the guideline and held shares with a value equal to approximately 260% of his 
salary.
On 2 July 2014, we were pleased to announce that the resolution to approve the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme was passed, with a majority of shareholders eligible to vote on the 
resolution voting in favour (the Executive Directors elected not to vote).
Under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme all eligible employees (including Executive Directors) who meet the qualifying conditions and performance criteria as determined and agreed 
by the Remuneration Committee and the Board will be able to participate. The terms of the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme provide for the grant of nil-cost options over up to 25 
million ordinary shares in the Company (amounting to approximately 4.2% of the issued share capital of the Company). The vesting of any options would be conditional upon the 
achievement by the Company of all the following EBITDA targets (before scheme costs): (i) FY16 of  480 million; (ii) FY17 of  570 million; (iii) FY18 of  650 million; and (iv) FY19 
of  750 million. If these performance targets are all met, 25% of any award would vest following the announcement of the Company's audited results for FY19 in July 2019 and 
75% of the award would vest following the announcement of the Company's audited results for FY21 in July 2021.
To date Mike Ashley has not received any remuneration from the Company since before the public offering in February 2007, nor has he participated in the Executive Share 
Bonus Scheme. Despite being eligible to participate in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme, following discussions with the Committee Mike Ashley has informed the Company and the 
Committee that he does not wish to participate in the scheme, nor does he expect any share based incentive scheme to be proposed to shareholders in relation to his role as an 
Executive Director while the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme is in place. He remains fully committed to achieving the stretching targets of the scheme.
The Board considers the leadership of Mike Ashley to be essential to the Company and we are grateful that shareholders have now recognised the huge impact of our proven and 
innovative share scheme on the success of the Company, its Executives and employees. It has always been our intention to continue with the existing highly performance-geared 
remuneration policy for our Executives, i.e. low salary, no annual bonus or additional benefits, and the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme allows us to continue on this path.
We are committed to further building an open and transparent engagement with our investors and employees. We believe that a key objective of the Directors' Remuneration Report 
is to communicate clearly how much our Executive Directors are earning, how this is very clearly linked to the performance of the Company and is of benefit to our shareholders.
 
Dave Singleton 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
15 July 2014
GOVERNANCE
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 33 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY 
This part of the report sets out the Company's Directors' Remuneration Policy, which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, shall take binding effect from the end of the 
Company's 2014/15 financial year. The Policy is determined by the Committee. 
Future policy table 
The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors.  
 
ELEMENT OF 
REMUNERATION
PURPOSE / LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
BASE 
SALARY
Fixed element of the 
remuneration package, 
where the balance of fixed 
and variable remuneration 
is aligned to the commercial 
strategy of long-term 
profitable growth and reflects 
the Company remuneration 
philosophy of gearing 
reward to performance with 
a sharing of risk between 
Executive Directors and 
shareholders.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually and have not been 
increased since 2002.
Mike Ashley does not currently receive a salary for his role.
Although salaries for existing Executive Directors (other 
than Mike Ashley, who does not currently receive a salary) 
have been set at  150,000 since 2002, the Company 
retains discretion to set salaries at a level commensurate 
with other companies of a similar size and complexity as 
the Company. 
Salaries for new Executive Directors will be set in 
accordance with the Committee's approach to recruitment 
remuneration, as described on page 36.
Not applicable.
BENEFITS
Not applicable for current 
Executive Directors
The current Executive Directors do not receive any additional benefits.  
There is currently no intention to change this whilst the Executive 
Bonus Share Scheme and 2015 Bonus Share Scheme remain in place.
Benefits may be provided in line with market practice to recruit a new 
Executive Director taking into account individual circumstances. Such 
benefits may include relocation expenses.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee has not set an 
absolute maximum level of benefits Executive Directors 
may receive, the Company retains discretion to set benefits 
at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers 
appropriate against the market and to support the on-
going strategy of the Company.
Not applicable.
RETIREMENT 
BENEFITS
Provide post-employment 
benefits to recruit and retain 
individuals of the calibre 
required for the business.
The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a stakeholder 
pension scheme on the same basis as other employees. The current 
Executive Directors have opted out of this arrangement.
The current maximum employer contribution to the 
stakeholder pension scheme is 1%. 
The Company retains the discretion to set retirement 
benefits (including pension contributions and/or a salary 
supplement in lieu of a pension contribution) for any 
Executive Directors in accordance with the Committee's 
approach to recruitment remuneration, as described on 
page 36.
Not applicable.
ANNUAL 
BONUS
Not applicable as Executive 
Directors do not participate 
in an annual bonus scheme.
The Committee has determined that no annual bonus scheme will be 
operated for Executive Directors while the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme 
is in place.
No annual bonus opportunity for an Executive Director who 
participates in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme for so long 
as that scheme is in place. If that scheme is not in place 
(for example if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA 
targets is not met so that awards under that scheme lapse) 
the Committee may award an annual bonus opportunity of 
up to 200% of base salary. The Committee will not award 
such a bonus opportunity and grant an award under the 
Executive Bonus Share Scheme as referred to below.
The annual bonus opportunity for any newly recruited 
Executive Director will be set in accordance with the 
Committee's approach to recruitment remuneration as 
described on page 36.
Not applicable for so long as Executive Directors 
do not participate in an annual bonus scheme. 
If an Executive Director does participate in an 
annual bonus scheme, performance will be 
assessed against one or more metrics determined 
by the Committee and linked to the Company's 
strategy, with the weighting between the metrics 
determined by the Committee. Bonuses will 
be determined between 0% and 100% of the 
maximum opportunity based on the Committee's 
assessment of the applicable metrics.
LONG-TERM 
INCENTIVE 
PAY (2015 
BONUS 
SHARE 
SCHEME 
AND 
EXECUTIVE 
BONUS 
SHARE 
SCHEME)
To recognise and reward 
outstanding performance of 
the Executives and to drive 
underlying Group EBITDA in 
line with Group strategy and 
align Executive Directors' 
interests with the interests 
of shareholders in bringing 
consistent long-term 
profitable growth to the 
Company.
2015 Bonus Share Scheme:  
The 2015 Bonus Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at a 
General Meeting of the Company in July 2014. Awards may be granted 
under the scheme to Executive Directors on an annual (or more 
frequent) basis. However, in accordance with the Company's policy 
of granting larger upfront awards which only vest if significant and 
consistent growth is delivered year on year, one award may be granted 
under the scheme to any Executive Director during the period for which 
it is proposed this Directors Remuneration Policy shall apply, with 
vesting subject to the satisfaction of the EBITDA targets set out in the 
2015 Bonus Share Scheme measured over a period of four financial 
years. 75% of an award is subject to a further deferral period such that 
it will vest in 2021 (with 25% vesting in 2019).
Following discussions with the Committee Mike Ashley has advised 
that he does not wish to participate in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme 
and accordingly the Committee has decided to make no award to Mike 
Ashley under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme.
Unvested Awards are subject to malus provisions, such that the 
Committee has the discretion to reduce, cancel or impose further 
conditions on the Awards in the event of a material misstatement of 
the Company's results, material failure of risk management or serious 
reputational damage.
Executive Bonus Share Scheme:  
The Executive Bonus Share Scheme was approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting in September 2010.  The Committee 
may grant further awards under this scheme if the 2015 Bonus Share 
Scheme is not in place (for example, if one of the Adjusted Underlying 
EBITDA targets is not met so that awards under the 2015 Bonus Share 
Scheme lapse).  Mike Ashley is not eligible to be granted awards under 
the Executive Bonus Share Scheme.  
Any award granted under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme would be 
subject to malus provisions on a comparable basis to those that will 
apply to awards granted under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme.
2015 Bonus Share Scheme 
Awards over no more than 25 million shares may be 
granted under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme.
No more than 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment 
as the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the 
Company's share capital) may be awarded to any Executive 
Director (other than Mike Ashley who has advised the 
Committee that he does not wish to participate in the 2015 
Bonus Share Scheme).
Executive Bonus Share Scheme 
Any award granted to an Executive Director under the 
Executive Bonus Share Scheme during the period for 
which it is proposed this Directors' Remuneration Policy 
shall apply would be over a maximum of 1 million shares 
(subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines 
to reflect any change in the Company's share capital).  
Stretching performance targets are set reflecting 
the business priorities that underpin Group 
strategy. 
2015 Bonus Share Scheme:  
Awards under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme are 
subject to satisfactory personal performance and 
will only vest if the following Adjusted Underlying 
EBITDA targets (before scheme costs) are met:
FY16:  480 million      
FY17:  570 million      
FY18:  650 million      
FY19:  750 million
For these purposes, Adjusted Underlying EBITDA  
means Underlying EBITDA as reported in the 
Company's published accounts for the relevant 
year after such adjustments as the Committee 
considers appropriate.
Executive Bonus Share Scheme:  
Any award granted under the Executive Bonus 
Share Scheme would be subject to stretching 
performance targets determined by the 
Committee based on Adjusted Underlying EBITDA, 
which would be disclosed in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report following the grant of any 
such award.  
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
34  GOVERNANCE
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
Minimum Performance Performance in line
with expectations
Total remuneration ( 000)
Maximum Performance
0
Dave Forsey
Base salary, benefits & pension                    2015 Bonus Share Scheme
92%
1,911.3
150 150
The table below sets out an overview of the approach to remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Purpose / link to strategy Approach of the Company
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
Provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain 
Directors of the calibre required for the business.
The Committee's Remuneration Policy in respect of the Non-Executive Directors is to pay annual fees which reflect 
the responsibilities and duties placed upon them, while also having regard to market practice.
Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed annual fee.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus or share schemes.
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible for benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs or other 
benefits that may be appropriate.
 
INFORMATION SUPPORTING THE POLICY TABLE 
Prior to the introduction of the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme, awards were granted to Executive Directors under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme. One award held by an Executive 
Director remains outstanding under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme as referred to on page 39.
Other than where the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme is not in place (for example, if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so that awards under the 2015 Bonus 
Share Scheme lapse) or where an award is to be granted in connection with the recruitment of an Executive Director as referred to on page 36, no further awards will be granted to 
Executive Directors of the Company under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme during the period for which this policy applies.  
The Committee may amend the terms of the Executive Bonus Share Scheme, the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme or any awards granted under them within the scope defined in the rules 
of those schemes (including in the event of a variation of the Company's share capital or a demerger or special dividend which may, in the Committee's opinion, affect the current 
or future value of shares) and may elect to settle awards under those schemes in cash.  
EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES CHOSEN 
For the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme, underlying Group EBITDA is chosen because it is a measure that provides a simple and transparent basis on which to measure the Company's 
performance over the longer term and to provide alignment with the Company's business strategy. In addition, the Committee considers it to be a robust measurement of sustained 
earnings growth for shareholders. This measurement has been consistently and publicly used by the Company as a performance measure since the floatation in 2007.
In respect of each relevant year, the Committee will adjust reported underlying Group EBITDA as it considers appropriate. Underlying Group EBITDA is calculated prior to any 
charges relating to any Bonus Share Scheme(s) outstanding at the relevant time.
EXPLANATION OF DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES 
The Company has a large number of employees with different responsibilities and differing levels of seniority. Reward policies for employees other than Executive Directors are 
determined by reference to grade, role, performance and other relevant factors. The Committee does not consult with the wider employee population about the remuneration policy 
for Directors. However, the Committee has reviewed the salaries, other remuneration and other employment conditions of senior and middle managers throughout the Group, and 
has taken them into account in considering Directors' salaries and the creation of new incentive schemes in order to create a sense of common purpose and sharing of success. 
Indeed, in order to reflect the Company's One Team  ethos, the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme applies to both Executives and eligible employees who meet the qualifying conditions as 
determined and agreed by the Committee on the same basis (including the performance conditions).
ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY 
The charts below set out an illustration of the policy for 2014/15 in line with the future policy table above. The charts provide an illustration of the total remuneration opportunity 
that could arise under three different levels of performance. No chart is included for Mike Ashley, who does not receive any remuneration from the Company and does not participate 
in any share scheme.
For the purposes of the adjacent chart, the following assumptions have been made.
Fixed Pay 2015 Bonus Share Scheme
Minimum remuneration Base salary of  150,000. No vesting.
Performance in line with 
expectations
No employer pension 
contribution (as current 
Executive Directors have 
opted out of the Company's 
stakeholder pension scheme).
No vesting, because rewards 
under the Executive Bonus 
Share Scheme vest on an all 
or nothing  basis for achieving 
the upper end of stretch 
targets.
Maximum remuneration No benefits (as no benefits 
were provided to the current 
Executive Directors in 
2013/14).
See note below*.
*For the purposes of this chart, it has been assumed that Dave Forsey is granted an award over 1 million shares, and that no award is granted to Mike Ashley, as referred to in the policy table on page 34. The value of the award is then 
calculated based on a share price of  7.045 (being the price at the close of business on 15 July 2014 when this report was approved by the Committee) and one quarter of this value is then shown, representing the intention to grant one 
award under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme, the vesting of which will be subject to EBITDA performance targets measured over a period of four financial years (FY16, FY17, FY18 and FY19). The vesting of any awards is conditional upon the 
achievement by the Company of all four EBITDA targets under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme.
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 35 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION 
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of a new Executive Director, the Committee will apply the following principles:
  given that the high gearing of reward for performance over a long period and a low basic salary may result in a  cash flow' issue for any new Executive Director , the intention is 
to move the Director appropriately and in a timely manner onto an equal footing with other Executive Directors;
  the package will be sufficient to attract the calibre of Director required to deliver the Company's strategy;
  the Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary; and
  in the next Annual Report on remuneration, the Committee will explain to shareholders the rationale for the arrangements implemented.
The Committee will ordinarily seek to implement the remuneration package in accordance with the elements referred to in the policy table on pages 34 and 35. The Committee 
retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside that policy including the ability to grant awards under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme to meet the 
individual circumstances of the recruitment, subject to the limits and parameters of this recruitment remuneration section of the Directors' Remuneration Report.
ELEMENT APPROACH
Base salary and benefits Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 34 if the new Executive Director participates in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme at the same 
level as existing Executive Directors (other than Mike Ashley).
Retirement benefits Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 34 if the new Executive Director participates in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme. Otherwise, 
up to 20% of salary paid to a pension arrangement or paid as a supplement to base salary in lieu of a pension arrangement until the new Executive 
Director joins that scheme.
2015 Bonus Share 
Scheme
The Remuneration Committee's intention is for a newly-appointed Executive Director to participate in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme with an award 
of up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Company's share capital) (i.e. up to 
the maximum level referred to in the policy table, but reduced to reflect the new Executive Director's shortened period of service). 
Variable remuneration In recognition of the fact that a newly appointed Executive Director's award under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme would not vest until 2019, the 
Committee may award a newly appointed Executive Director an award over up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee 
determines to reflect any change in the Company's share capital) under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme or a similar scheme, the vesting of which 
would be subject to the same performance conditions as apply to existing awards under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme or other stretching 
performance conditions determined by the Committee.  
In addition, until such time as the newly appointed Executive Director participates in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme, he or she may be awarded an 
annual or longer-term incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
Maximum variable 
remuneration
The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director is:
a. an award over up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Company' s share 
capital) under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme (but reduced to reflect any variable remuneration awarded as referred to in (c) below); 
b. an award over up to 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Company' s share 
capital) under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme or a similar scheme; and
c. until such time as he or she participates in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme, an annual or longer-term incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary 
per annum.  
In each case, the value of any buy-out arrangements (described below) does not count towards the maximum.  
Compensation for 
forfeited arrangements
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out the remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. In doing so, the Committee will have regard to relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to such arrangements (and 
whether such conditions were achieved), the form of those arrangements (e.g. cash or shares) and the timeframe of such arrangements.
While such awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to below, the Committee's intention is that the value 
awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements. Buy-out awards will be subject to forfeiture or clawback on 
early departure, with 100% being subject to forfeiture if the Executive departs within 12 months of joining, and a sliding scale down to 50% if the 
departure occurs within 12 and 24 months of joining, at the Committee's discretion. 
Relocation costs If necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation costs. The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
 
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company's existing share schemes. If necessary and subject, where relevant, to the 
limits referred to above, awards may be granted outside existing share plans as permitted under the Listing Rules, which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual 
circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any on-going remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to their subsisting terms.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the policy set out in the future policy table above for Non-Executive Directors.
36  GOVERNANCE
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE  
The Company's policy is for Executive Directors to be employed on the terms of service contracts which may be terminated by either the Company or the Executive Director on the 
giving of not less than 12 months notice.  
Executive Directors 
Details of each current service contract are set out below:
Contract date Unexpired term / notice period Proper law
Mike Ashley 11/02/2007 12 Months England & Wales
Dave Forsey 11/02/2007 12 Months England & Wales
 
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are summarised below:
Payment in lieu 
of notice
The Company may terminate an Executive Director's employment with immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice consisting of:
  basic salary for the notice period; 
  if the Executive Director participates in an annual bonus scheme, a pro-rated amount reflecting completed months of service in the year of termination 
assuming on target performance;
  either the cost of providing other benefits (other than pension and bonus) that the Executive Director would have been entitled to during the notice period 
or an amount equal to 10% of base salary (or alternatively the Company may continue to provide benefits for the remainder of the notice period that 
would have applied).
However, in accordance with the current policy as set out in the policy table on page 34, no annual bonus scheme or benefits are currently offered to 
Executive Directors.     
Annual bonus
In accordance with the current policy as set out in the policy table on page 34, no annual bonus scheme is offered to existing Executive Directors. Were an 
Executive Director to participate in an annual bonus arrangement, whether to award a bonus in full or in part in the event of a termination of employment 
would be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the Executive 
Director's departure and his contribution to the business during the bonus period in question. Typically bonus amounts would be pro-rated for time in service 
to termination.
2015 Bonus 
Share Scheme  
and Executive 
Bonus Share 
Scheme
If a participant in the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme or Executive Bonus Share Scheme ceases employment before the performance conditions attaching to an 
award under that scheme are satisfied, the award will lapse. If the participant ceases employment after the performance conditions are satisfied but before 
the vesting dates as a result of his death or any other reason determined at the discretion of the Committee, the award will vest; in the case of a reason 
other than death, the extent of vesting will be determined by the Committee at its absolute discretion taking into account the time that has elapsed between 
grant and cessation.
Other payments
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing 
legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the 
termination of a Director's office or employment. In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of legal fees. Were the Company 
to make an award on recruitment of an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer then the leaver 
provisions for that award would be determined at the time of grant.
 
In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event, unvested awards under the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme and the Executive Bonus Share Scheme 
will lapse unless the performance conditions are satisfied and the event occurs between satisfaction of the conditions and the vesting date, in which case the award shall vest. In 
the case of the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme the extent of vesting shall be determined by the Committee taking into account the period of time that has elapsed between the grant 
date and the date of the relevant event and in the case of the Executive Bonus Share Scheme the awards shall vest in full unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors enter into an agreement with the Group for a period of three years, other than the Chairman whose agreement continues until terminated in accordance 
with its terms. The appointments of the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either party on one month's written notice and in accordance with the Articles of Association 
of the Company. Termination would be immediate in certain circumstances (including the bankruptcy of the Non-Executive Director).
Non-Executive Directors do not and are not entitled to participate in any bonus or share scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to confidentiality undertakings without limitation in time. Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on the 
termination of their appointment.
Details of the letters of appointment are set out below:
Position Date of letter of appointment
Keith Hellawell Non-Executive Chairman February 2010 
Simon Bentley Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014
Dave Singleton Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014
Charles McCreevy Non-Executive Director 31 March 2011
Claire Jenkins Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 37 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
PAYMENTS OUTSIDE THE POLICY IN THIS REPORT 
The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in this report:
  where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect; 
  where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was 
not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company; or
  to satisfy contractual commitments made under legacy remuneration arrangements.  
For these purposes, payments  includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed  at 
the time the award is granted.  
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
The Committee consults major shareholders and representative Groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
This part of the Directors' Remuneration Report sets out the actual payments made by the Company to its Directors with respect to the period ending 27 April 2014 and how our 
Directors' Remuneration Policy will be applied in the year commencing 28 April 2014.
SINGLE FIGURE TABLE (AUDITED) 
The aggregate remuneration provided to individuals who have served as Directors in the period ended 27 April 2014 is set out below, along with the aggregate remuneration 
provided to individuals who have served as Directors during the prior financial year. 
 
Director Salaries and fees Other benefits Bonus Long-term incentives Pension Total
2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13
 000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000
Executive
Mike Ashley - - - - - - - - - - - -
Dave Forsey 150 150 - - - - - - - - 150 150
Bob Mellors
(1)
112.5 150 - - - - - - - - 112.5 150
Non-Executive
Keith Hellawell 155 155 - - -- - - - - - 155 155
Simon Bentley 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
Dave Singleton 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
Charles McCreevy 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
Claire Jenkins 50 50 - - - - - - - - 50 50
(1) Bob Mellors resigned from the Board on 31 December 2013.
NOTES TO THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN THE YEAR ENDING 26 APRIL 2015 
Base salary and fees 
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually. In the review in 2013/14 the Committee decided not to alter Executive Directors' salaries. The Committee has decided not to increase 
Executive Directors' salaries in 2014/15. Executive Directors' salaries have been at the same level since 2002, which is set at a level well below the lower quartile for a business of 
the size and complexity of the Group. Mike Ashley does not receive a salary for his role. 
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually. In the review in 2013/14 fees were not increased. Fees for Non-Executive Directors will not be increased for 
2014/15. 
Annual bonus scheme 
The Committee has determined that no annual bonus scheme will be operated for Executive Directors while the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme is in place.
Executive Bonus Share Scheme 
No awards were granted under the Executive Bonus Share Scheme in 2013/14. Awards which were subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition based on EBITDA in the 
2010/11 financial year vested in August 2013.
Following the approval of the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme in July 2014, the Committee proposes to grant each Executive Director (other than Mike Ashley) an award under the scheme 
in 2014/15 over 1 million shares (subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Company' s share capital). The performance conditions for 
the awards will be as set out in the policy table on page 34.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
No payments have been made to past Directors during the period ended 27 April 2014.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
No payments were made for loss of office during the period ended 27 April 2014.
38  GOVERNANCE
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES AND TOTAL SHAREHOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS 
The Board believes it is important that Executive Directors have a significant holding in the capital of the Company. In order to participate in the Executive Bonus Share Scheme, 
there were internal guidelines that the Executive Directors would be required to maintain a minimum level of shareholding in the Company equivalent to one year's salary while 
they remain employed by the Company. However, these guidelines can be waived with the permission of the Board. The Committee has raised the required shareholding value of 
Executive Directors to 50,000 shares while employed by the Company in 2014.
Dave Forsey's beneficial shareholding on 27 April 2014 was 50,000 shares and, based on a share price of  7.79 (being the price at the close of business on 25 April 2014, the last 
trading day before Sunday 27 April 2014) the value of that holding was  389,500.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office on 27 April 2014 and of their families in both cases at the beginning of the financial year , or at the date of appointment if later, 
and at the end of the financial year in the share capital of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 29 April 2013 Ordinary Shares 27 April 2014
Mike Ashley 385,400,000 345,400,000
Simon Bentley 50,000 10,000
Dave Forsey - 50,000
Keith Hellawell 130,000 50,000
Claire Jenkins 20,000 19,500
Charles McCreevy - 1,500
Dave Singleton 153,621 52,000
 
There have been no changes in the Directors' holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 27 April 2014 and 15 July 2014.
The only award held by a Director under a share scheme as at 27 April 2014 is as follows.  
Director Scheme Grant date Number of shares Status
Dave Forsey Executive Bonus Share Scheme 22 August 2011 1,000,000 Unvested
 
The award was granted subject to the satisfaction of the following EBITDA targets (of which three have been met):
  Underlying EBITDA of  215 million in FY12 
  Underlying EBITDA of  250 million in FY13
  Underlying EBITDA of  260 million in FY14
  Underlying EBITDA of  300 million in FY15
Subject to the satisfaction of the remaining EBITDA target the award will vest in 2017.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE 
The following graph shows the Company's performance measured by the Total Shareholder Return compared with the performance of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 index (excluding 
investment trusts).
The Committee considered this an appropriate index against which to compare the Company's performance as it is widely accepted as a national measure and includes the 
companies that investors are likely to consider alternative investments.
 50
 0
 100
 150
 200
 250
 300
 350
 400
29-Apr-07 27-Apr-08 26-Apr-09 25-Apr-10 24-Apr-11 29-Apr-12 28-Apr-13 27-Apr-14
 FTSE 250 ex Investment Trusts           FTSE 100           Sports Direct
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 39 GOVERNANCE
The table below shows details of the total remuneration and performance-related pay for Dave Forsey over the last five financial years. 
Total remuneration Executive Bonus Share Scheme as a % of maximum opportunity
2013/14  150,000 N/A
2012/13  150,000 N/A
2011/12  150,000 N/A
2010/11  6,620,000* 100%
2009/10  150,000 N/A
 
* For these purposes, the total remuneration in 2010/11 includes the value of an award over 1,000,000 shares that vested on 15 August 2013 subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition based on EBITDA in 2010/11 financial year . 
For these purposes, the value of a share is  6.47 being the closing price of a share on that date.
CEO PAY INCREASE IN RELATION TO ALL EMPLOYEES 
The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the percentage increase in pay for Dave Forsey compared to the average increase between the 
same periods for the Group's UK Head Office employees, which the Committee believes is the most appropriate comparator group. The percentages shown relate to the amounts for 
2013/14 financial year as compared to the amounts for the 2012/13 financial year.
Element of remuneration Dave Forsey / % change UK Head Office Employee average / % change
Salary 0% 2.3%
Taxable benefits 0% (no taxable benefits were provided to Dave Forsey in either year) -3.2%
Annual bonus 0% (no annual bonus arrangement was operated for Dave Forsey in either year) 13.2%
 
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY 
The table below sets out the Group's distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks, total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees, as reported in 
the audited financial statements for 2013/14 and 2012/13, and the Company's share price, calculated as at the close of business on the last day of the FY14 financial year and the 
FY13 financial year.
FY14 FY13 Percentage change
Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback  0  391,554 -100%
Investment*  323,475,000  227,998,000 41.8%
Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees  307,948,000***  221,103,000 39.3%
Share price (pence) 779.5** 467.2** 66.85% 
*Comprises of increases in working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditure in the year as the Board believes these to be the most relevant measures of the Group's investment in future growth. 
**For these purposes, the share price for FY14 and the share price for FY13 are calculated as the close of business on 27 April 2014 and 28 April 2013 respectively. 
***This increase is reflective of the Group's acquisitions and retail expansion in Europe.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION 
Membership 
The Committee consists of Simon Bentley, Dave Singleton, Claire Jenkins and Charles McCreevy, who are independent Non-Executive Directors, and Keith Hellawell, who is the Non-
Executive Chairman.
The role and main responsibilities of the Committee are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 31.
Attendance at the meetings held during the year is detailed on page 29.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from 
other directorships and no day-to-day operational responsibility within the Company.
Advisers to the Committee 
Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, Bob Mellors, the former Group Finance Director, and Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, have advised or materially assisted the 
Committee when requested. No Executive Director is present or takes part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors' Remuneration Report for the year ended 28 April 2013 and in respect of the resolution 
to approve the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme. 
Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld
Directors' Remuneration Report for the year ended 28 April 2013 523,524,503 97.7% 12,086,759 2.3% 535,611,262 59,875 
Approval of the 2015 Bonus Share Scheme 111,926,611 60.4% 73,372,592 39.6% 185,299,203 213,882
 
Dave Singleton 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
15 July 2014
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT 
CONTINUED
40 