 9
INDEPENDENT MEDIA DISTRIBUTION PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, set out below are details of the
Company's corporate governance arrangements, including a statement as to how the company applies the principles of Section 1 of the
Revised Code, together with a statement regarding its compliance with specific provisions. Whilst welcoming the principles contained
within the Code, the Board considers that it should be recognised that what may be appropriate for a large company may not
necessarily be so appropriate for a smaller company. In common with other organisations of a similar size, the Executive Directors are
heavily involved in the day to day running of the business and meet regularly on an informal basis as well as at Board Meetings. The
Board of Directors meets regularly and is responsible for formulating strategy, monitoring financial performance and approving major
items of capital expenditure. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board comprises three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors and the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer are split. In view of the size and management structure of IMD, the Company has not complied with certain minor aspects of
the Combined Code as discussed below:
Board of Directors
The Board includes four Non-Executive Directors, three of which are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and others as required. The Board of Directors meets regularly and retains full
responsibility for the direction and control of the Group. No strategic powers have been delegated and for these reasons the Board did
not have, during the year, a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it (Paragraph A1 of the Code).  During the year, all six
serving Directors attended the six Board meetings that were held.
There is currently no formal agreed procedure for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice as
necessary at the Company's expense (paragraph A5 of the Code).
Non-Executive Directors
The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole. Although recommended by the Code, there is
currently no formal selection process. The Non-Executive Directors have contracts for services for an unspecified period. (Paragraph
A7 of the Code). The Non-Executive directors are subject to re-election every three years.
Terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection.
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have service contracts which are for unspecified periods and which are determinable by the Company or the
Director on giving notice of between six months and one year. Directors are appointed by the Board of Directors but stand for election
by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The Executive directors are subject to re-election every three years.
Board Committees
A Remuneration Committee is in place comprising three Non-Executive Directors as disclosed on page 6. During the year one of the
serving members C W Dunstone, was not considered to be independent (Paragraph B2 of the Code). Since the year-end Mrs M King,
an independent Non-Executive Director, has replaced C W Dunstone as a member of the Committee. The Company's policy towards
Directors' remuneration is set out above. The Remuneration Committee has two scheduled meetings each year. All of the serving
members attended the two meetings in the year.
An Audit Committee is in place comprising three Non-Executive Directors. During the year one of the serving members C W
Dunstone, was not considered to be independent (Paragraph B2 of the Code). Since the year-end Mrs M King, an independent Non-
Executive Director, has replaced C W Dunstone as a member of the Committee. The Company's approach to internal control is
described below.  The Audit Committee has two scheduled meetings each year.  All of the serving members attended the two meetings
held in the year.
There is no Nomination Committee. Given the size of the Group, the Board do not consider a Nomination Committee appropriate
(paragraph A4 of the Code).
Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit and Remuneration Committee are available on request. 10
INDEPENDENT MEDIA DISTRIBUTION PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (continued)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
Performance evaluation
There is currently no formal performance evaluation of the board, its committees and its individual directors. In the future this is
intended to be formalised and the non-executive directors will be responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman.
Communication with Shareholders
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and governance matters.
The Board has appointed one Non-Executive director to be the Senior Independent Director who is also available to shareholders if
they have concerns.
In addition, all company announcements are published on the Company's website, together with financial results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions and express their views at the Company's Annual General Meeting, at which all
Directors are available to take questions.
With the exception of the matters referred to above the Company has complied throughout the financial year with provisions of
Section 1 of Revised Combined Code, issued in July 2003.
AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the Group's financial systems and controls and its financial reporting
procedures.  In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and reviews work carried out by the external auditors and their findings.
The Board has overall responsibility for operating and monitoring the system of internal control within the Group and for monitoring
its effectiveness. The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Group's system is
designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any material problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with
appropriately.
Guidance on the Turnbull Report was issued in September 1999 and gave guidance to Directors on the requirements of the Combined
Code for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control, encompassing operational, compliance and risk
management matters in addition to the traditional financial issues. The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal
controls on an annual basis on behalf of the Board and considers that, given the small size of the Company and the close involvement
of the Executive Directors in the day to day operations, it has complied with the requirements in the Combined Code and the Turnbull
Report in the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The key elements of the system, which has been designed to meet the specific needs and business risks of the Group, include:
  clearly defined organisation structures with segregation of duties wherever practicable
  agreement of Group short term financial objectives and business plans
  monthly review by the Board of Group Financial Statements and monitoring of results against budgets
  Board control over treasury, taxation, legal, insurance and personnel issues
  Board control over appraisal, review and authorisation of capital expenditure
In common with organisations of similar size the Executive Directors are heavily involved in the day to day running of the business.
The Directors believe that although the Company's controls may be slightly less formal than those of larger companies, the close
involvement of the Executive Directors more than compensates for this.
The Board believes that it is not currently appropriate for the Company to maintain an internal audit function because of the close
involvement of the Executive Directors in the running of the business.
The Audit Committee consider the independence and objectivity of the external auditors on an annual basis, with particular regard to
non-audit services.  The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year and information on the nature of the non-audit fees appear
in note 3 to the financial statements.  The non-audit fees are considered by the Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity
of the auditors.  The Audit Committee monitors such costs in the context of the audit fee for the year, ensuring that the value of non-
audit services does not increase to a level where it could affect the auditors' objectivity and independence. The Audit Committee also
received an annual confirmation of independence from the auditors. 11
INDEPENDENT MEDIA DISTRIBUTION PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (continued)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
TREASURY
The Group is fundamentally cash-generative and manages its liquid resources so as to obtain the best available rates of return on cash
investments, whilst retaining access to those resources. Cash which is not needed for short term requirements is deposited for periods
of one month (or more) based on the Directors' assessment of prevailing interest rate trends, the interest rates available and the liquid
resource requirements of the Group. In addition, cash is placed on instant access deposit with the Group's bankers which is available
for shorter term requirements. An analysis of the Group's cash and short-term deposits is given on page 17 in the Financial Statements.
The Group's positive cash flow enables it to purchase the majority of fixed assets for cash thereby obtaining substantial discounts.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.