 29 Innovata plc Annual Report 2005
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to principles of good corporate
governance and has fully addressed the provisions of the new
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003
(the Combined Code ). It considers that the Group is compliant
with Section 1 of the Combined Code and that, in particular, 
the changes made since the last Annual Report of the Company
dated 25 January 2005 to the composition of the Board and its
various committees and to relevant Directors' service contracts
have eliminated the instances of non-compliance with the
provisions of Section 1 of the original Combined Code noted
therein, namely that, prior to these changes, certain Executive
Directors had contracts with notice periods of more than one year,
there was no Nominations Committee and there were only two
Non-Executive Directors.
The Board
The Company has a Chairman and Chief Executive, each having
his own separate responsibilities. The Chairman is responsible 
for the effective working of the Board and the Chief Executive 
is responsible for all operational matters.
The Board, which is constituted to have a balance between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and includes a nominated
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, F S Hallsworth, meets
regularly throughout the year. The members of the Board and their
respective roles are described on page 14 of this document. 
F S Hallsworth, Dr S E Foden and Dr J M Fromson are considered 
to be independent Non-Executive Directors. Mr Uppal is not
considered to be independent in view of his recent involvement 
in the Executive Management of Quadrant and his substantial
shareholding in the Company. Non-Executive Directors hold
meetings at which the Executive Directors are not present.
The Board meets regularly, normally at least eight times per year,
to deal with matters specifically reserved for its decision. 
These matters include agreeing and monitoring strategic plans
and financial targets, major decisions on resource, overseeing
management of the Company in the interest of the shareholders,
ensuring processes are in place to manage major risks, corporate
governance issues, litigation and reporting to shareholders. The
Executive managers of the business make day-to-day operating
decisions to ensure proper management of the Company's
business and implement the Board's approved strategy to deliver
operational performance. They recommend strategy and plans 
to the Board, make routine decisions on resources and ensure
that adequate operational and financial controls are in place.
All Directors have full and timely access to information to assist
them in performing their duties, to independent professional advice
and to the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible
to the Board for ensuring adherence to Board procedures and
compliance with applicable rules and regulations. All Directors 
are covered by appropriate insurances for legal action which may
be taken against them relating to the performance of their duties
as a Director.
Appointment of Directors
The appointment of Directors is overseen by the Nominations 
and Corporate Governance Committee. Its members are 
Dr J M Fromson as Chairman, Dr S E Foden and F S Hallsworth.
New appointments to the Board will be subject to formal, rigorous
and transparent procedures covering the criteria for appointment
and the method by which the Board assesses that the appointees
can satisfy the criteria. External search consultancies and/or 
open advertising will be used unless considered inappropriate.
The Board will continue to review procedures for succession for
appointments to the Board and Senior Management so as to
maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within
the Company and on the Board.
Board performance appraisal
Individual performance evaluation of Executive Directors other
than the Chief Executive is carried out by the Chief Executive and
the results reviewed with the Chairman and the Remuneration
Committee. Evaluation of the Chief Executive's performance 
is carried out by the Chairman and the results reviewed 
with the Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors 
are appraised by the Chairman. The Chairman is appraised 
by the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board as a whole addresses its overall performance as a body
and those of its committees at least annually.
Re-election of Directors
A minimum of one third of the Directors retire by rotation annually
and each Director is subject to re-election at the first opportunity
after their appointment and thereafter at least every three years.
All Non-Executive appointments are made for an initial specified
term subject to re-election.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of Dr S E Foden as
Chairman, Dr J M Fromson and F S Hallsworth. It is responsible 
for setting the remuneration of Executive Directors, for establishing
and monitoring the level and structure of senior management's
remuneration and for the operation of the Group's share 
option schemes.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee of the Board consists of F S Hallsworth 
as Chairman, Dr S E Foden and Dr J M Fromson. It is responsible
for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is
properly measured and reported on, and it achieves this through
regular reviews of financial reports, contact with external auditors
and questioning of key financial staff. It reviews and approves
interim and annual financial statements and reviews external
auditors' reports relating to financial reporting and control matters.
It is also responsible for ensuring the ongoing objectivity and
independence of external auditors and achieves this by reviewing
and approving audit scope and fees as well as the level of non-
audit work carried out by the Group's Auditors. Innovata plc Annual Report 2005 30
Corporate Governance continued
The Audit Committee has reviewed whether it would be appropriate
to introduce a separate internal audit function and has concluded
that this is not necessary given the structure and size of the Group.
The terms of reference of the Board's Committees are available
upon request.
Attendance at meetings
Corporate
Governance/
Nominations Audit Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings meetings
I F Kent 7 (7) - N/A N/A
K P Murphy 7 (7) - N/A N/A
Dr T S Chadwick 1 (1) - N/A N/A
Dr C C Dalton 1 (1) - N/A N/A
P J Shennan 11 (11) - N/A N/A
Dr S E Foden 3 (3) - 1 (1) 1 (1)
Dr J M Fromson 3 (3) - 1 (1) 1 (1)
F S Hallsworth 3 (4) - 1 (1) 1 (1)
R Uppal 1 (1) - N/A N/A
S W Sim 3 (3) - N/A N/A
P J Ballington 8 (9) - N/A N/A
Dr R N Boyes 5 (8) - N/A N/A
Prof D S Davies 8 (8) - N/A N/A
Prof A D Dayan 8 (8) - N/A N/A
Dr T Medinger 8 (8) - N/A N/A
Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings 
in the period during which the individual was a Director.
The review with the Auditors of the financial statements and audit
for the year ended 30 September 2004 was conducted at a full
meeting of the Board, as opposed to the then constituted Audit
Committee. In addition to the meeting included in the table, 
the currently constituted Audit Committee has met twice since 
30 September 2005 and would normally expect to meet at least
three times per year.
Internal financial control and reporting
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal
controls and as such have put in place a framework of controls 
to ensure that the ongoing financial performance is measured 
in a timely and correct manner and that risk is identified as early
as is practicably possible. There is a comprehensive budgeting 
system and monthly management accounts are prepared which
compare actual results against both the budget and the previous
year. They are reviewed and approved by the Board and revised
forecasts are prepared on a regular basis.
Operational control, compliance and risk management
As explained in the Business Review, the Group operates
procedures for identifying and managing significant business risks.
These involve regular reviews of strategic risks and opportunities
undertaken by the Chief Executive Officer and discussed by the
Board and detailed reviews of operational issues and risks 
at weekly meetings of the Executive Management team. 
Each member of the team has operational responsibilities 
for identifying and managing the relevant risks.
The Group's system of internal control, which is in accordance with
the guidance in the Turnball report, is designed to manage rather
than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable assurance that financial
information is relevant, reliable and accurate and that the Group's
assets are correctly accounted for and adequately safeguarded.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of internal control,
including internal financial control, during the year and to the 
date of approval of these financial statements.
Relations with shareholders
The Company reports to shareholders twice a year. The Company
despatches the notice of its Annual General Meeting, together
with a description of the items of special business, at least 20
working days before the meeting. Each substantially separate
issue is the subject of a separate resolution and all shareholders
have the opportunity to put questions at the Annual General
Meeting. The Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of the
Audit and Remuneration Committees normally attend the Annual
General Meeting and will answer questions which may be
relevant to their work. The Chairman advises the meeting of the
details of proxy votes cast on each of the individual resolutions
after they have been voted on in the meeting.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors seek to maintain 
a good and continuing understanding of the shareholders'
objectives and views.
Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will have adequate cash resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.