 7
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the board is
accountable to shareholders.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code except for the following matters: 
1. Under Code Provision B.2.2 the Remuneration Committee should consist exclusively of non-executive directors.
However, at Abbeycrest Plc the Remuneration Committee includes an executive director, M. N. Lever who is also
Chairman of the Group. The board believes M. N. Lever plays a vital role in assisting the non-executive directors'
understanding of the contributions made by the directors of the business. M. N. Lever's remuneration package is
determined by the non-executive members of the Remuneration Committee.
2. Code Provision D.3.1 requires that the Audit Committee consists of at least three directors, all non-executive.
At Abbeycrest Plc, the Audit Committee comprises the entire board of directors and this is the forum at which decisions
or discussions with the auditors, regarding the financial stewardship of the Group, take place, and hence the board
believes that it is in the best interests of the Group, that the Audit Committee consists of the entire board including the
two non-executives.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with
the Code of Best Practice as reported above. Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below
and, in connection with directors' remuneration, in the Remuneration Report.
Board of directors
The board consists of six directors, of whom two are non-executive directors. The non-executive directors bring considerable
knowledge and external experience to the Company and, in the opinion of the board, they are independent of management.
A. Cheesebrough (aged 73) is the senior non-executive director.
As Chairman and Chief Executive, M. N. Lever has been responsible for running both the board of directors and the Group's
business. As from 1 March 2004 P . Walker has been appointed Group Chief Executive and is now responsible for the running
of the day to day business of the Group.
M. N. Lever (aged 58) retires by rotation at the next Annual General Meeting and being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Mr Lever, the co-founder of the Group brings a wealth of industry experience to the Group and is currently Chairman of the
board of directors.
P . Stevenson (aged 45) retires by rotation at the next Annual General Meeting and being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Mr Stevenson has performed a number of rolls within the Group and therefore brings a broad spectrum of knowledge to the
Group board.
R. G. Marcall (aged 54) joined the board on 10 October 2003 as a non-executive director. Formerly he held executive
directorships at Airtours Plc and Yates Group Plc. He is currently chief executive of Glyn Webb Limited and a non-executive
director of Park Group Plc and Matrix Drug Development Limited.
D. Chapman (aged 43) was appointed as financial director on 9 March 2004 following P . Walker's promotion to Chief
Executive. Prior to this Mr Chapman was finance director at G&A Limited where he has been instrumental in implementing a
robust financial control environment. Before joining the Group Mr Chapman has held a number of board level posts in
industry, having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen in 1987.
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2004
Corporate Governance Statement 8
The board meets regularly throughout the year, normally on a bi-monthly basis monitoring the executive management.
The board meetings follow a formal agenda of matters with supporting information to allow an appraisal of issues requiring
decisions and approval by the board.
There is a procedure agreed by the Board for directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional
advice, if necessary, at the  company's expense.
Remuneration matters are delegated by the board to the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee, which
comprises M. N. Lever, A. Cheesebrough and R. G. Marcall, normally meets at least six times a year to make decisions on
the remuneration of executive directors as well as wider remuneration issues affecting the Group as a whole. In common with
other smaller companies the Remuneration Committee also acts as the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee, as explained earlier, has comprised the whole board and monitors the financial reporting and internal
control of the Group. The Committee meets twice a year.
From 1 March 2004 both the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee will comprise of the non-executive
directors only. Whilst the Combined Code requires at least three non-executive directors sit on the Audit Committee the
board believes that this is impractical for a Company of Abbeycrest's size
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders
by communicating regularly throughout the year and by issuing six monthly trading statements.
Internal control
The board of directors is responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains a sound system of internal control, to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the Group's assets, as well as providing the directors with reasonable assurance regarding
effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance with laws and regulations. The directors also
recognise that they have overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control system. However, there
are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system is only designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure against business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board of directors has applied Principle D.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces. The board regularly reviews the process, which has been in
place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with the Code Provision
D.2.1 and the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code; which was published in
September 1999. The board monitoring covers all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management. The review process includes:
- Setting an internal control policy. The board has prepared a statement of policy on internal control after considering
the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group, the extent and categories of risk which the board regards as
acceptable for the Group to bear, the likelihood of risks materialising, the Group's ability to reduce the incidence and
impact on the business of risks that do materialise, and the costs of operating particular controls relative to the benefit
thereby obtained in managing the related risks.
- Preparation of a detailed business risk management programme. The programme provides a process for the
identification and prioritisation of risks, and the identification, review and assignment of responsibilities for risk controls to
the appropriate levels of management in order to ensure the proper implementation of the board's policy on internal
control. The programme also facilitates communication within the Group which ensures that employees understand their
responsibilities for internal control, and ensures that any evolving risks or control failings are reported immediately to the
board to enable appropriate actions to be taken.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the purposes of this
annual report. This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising in the period covered by the report.
Where additional controls were required action plans have been put in place to address these. Successful completion of
these actions plans will be carefully monitored.
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2004
Corporate Governance Statement
continued 9
Internal financial control
The key features of the internal financial control system that operated throughout the year covered by the accounts are
described under the following headings:
- Control environment. The board has in place a documented organisational structure with clearly defined and
understood lines of responsibility and delegation of authority from the board to operating units.
- Identification and evaluation of business risks and control objectives. The board has the primary responsibility for
identifying major business risks facing the Group and developing appropriate policies to manage those risks. The risk
management approach is used to focus management on the Group's most significant areas of risk and to determine key
control objectives.
- Information systems. The Group operates a comprehensive annual budgeting system with budgets approved by the
board. The financial reporting system compares results with budget and the previous year on a monthly basis to identify
any significant deviation from approved plans. Financial reviews of the major operating units are undertaken on a monthly
basis. Weekly key statistics information is also reviewed at board level for all the main operating subsidiaries.
- Main control procedures. The board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for
decision thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and
compliance issues. The board has identified a number of key areas which require its review and approval including all
major transactions and significant organisational changes.
- Monitoring. The board has delegated to executive management the monitoring of the system of internal financial control
procedures. The operation of the system is monitored by internal review focusing on key aspects of the business.
At present the board considers that the cost of an internal audit function would exceed the benefits it could bring to the
Group's current system of internal control.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is
a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2004