 Corporate Governance Report  
Inspired Gaming Group plc Report and Accounts 2009  27 
 
 
As an AIM listed company Inspired Gaming Group plc is not required to comply with the Combined Code. 
However, the Directors acknowledge the importance of sound and effective corporate governance practices 
and intend to comply with these in so far as is reasonable for a business of the Company's size and nature.  
 
The Board  
At the end of the Financial Year the Board of Directors consisted of the Non-Executive Chairman, the Group 
Chief Executive, two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are independent, 
being Julian Paul and David Mace. The biographies of Board members are set out in the Board of Directors 
section of this Annual Report. 
 
Although the Non-Executive Chairman, Russell Hoyle is not considered independent under the Combined 
Code, having previously been chief executive officer of the underlying group, the Board believes him to be 
the best candidate for the position of Chairman due to his detailed knowledge of the business, commitment 
to the Group and reputation in the wider industry.   
 
The Board considers that, with the exception of Christopher Mills who represents a significant shareholder 
(J O Hambro Capital Management), the Non-Executive Directors satisfy the criteria of the Combined Code to 
act as independent non-executive directors and that the Company thereby satisfies the criteria that smaller 
companies should have at least two independent non-executive directors. The independent Non-Executive 
Directors were selected for their considerable appropriate business knowledge and experience.  
 
The Board believes its members to have an appropriate and overall good balance of skills and experience to 
direct the Group and that no individual or group of individuals dominates the Board's decision making.  
 
The Board has ultimate responsibility and accountability for the Group's operations. The Board approves the 
Group's strategic plans, annual budgets and three year plans, strategic changes to the financial structure, 
material transactions, interim and preliminary announcements, annual report and accounts and business 
developments. 
 
The Board's corporate timetable provides for ten full Board meetings each year to establish future strategy, 
review current business performance and financial results and approve budgets. Additional meetings are 
scheduled as and when required. The Board believes that these meetings enable the Directors to remain 
fully up to date on developments within the Group and to exercise appropriate control over Group activities.  
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that agendas for Board meetings are set in advance and that 
Directors receive information sufficiently in advance of the meeting to facilitate informed discussion.  
 
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board inter alia on 
corporate governance matters. 
 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, 
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. 
 
The Group maintains appropriate directors' and officers' liability insurance cover. 
 
The Company has established separate Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, as detailed 
below. Each committee has its own terms of reference which are available on the Company's website.  
 
During the Financial Year 13 Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, one Remuneration 
Committee meeting and one Nominations Committee meeting were held. 
  Corporate Governance Report  
Inspired Gaming Group plc Report and Accounts 2009  28 
 
The Directors attended these meetings as follows: 
 
 
Director 
Board 
meetings 
Audit 
Committee 
*
Remuneration 
Committee 
*
Nominations 
Committee 
**
L Alvarez 13 - 1 1
R Hoyle 13 - 1 1
D Mace 12 3 1 1
C Mills   9 - -
J O'Halleran 12 - -
J Paul 13 3 1 1
S Rogers 
(from 22.4.09) 
  4 - -
 
*  
Committees consist of D Mace and J Paul.  
**
  Committee consists of R Hoyle, L Alvarez, J Paul and D Mace.  
 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee has agreed terms of reference, and consists of Julian Paul (Chairman) and David 
Mace, both of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company. It carries out duties in respect 
of the Group as a whole.  
 
The Audit Committee met formally three times during the Financial Year. The Audit Committee is responsible 
for ensuring that the financial performance, position and proposals of the Group are properly monitored and 
reported on and for meeting the external auditors, reviewing their reports, statements and fees relating to 
interim and full year accounts and assessing and monitoring their independence and objectivity. It is also 
responsible for making recommendations on the appointment or re-appointment of external auditors. The 
Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and risk management 
systems.  
 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the period for audit and other services are set out 
in note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Audit Committee monitors the level of 
non-audit work undertaken by the auditors and ensures it is work which they are best suited to perform and 
does not present a risk to their objectivity. As a result of either regulatory requirements or their existing 
knowledge of the Group, the Group's auditors are in some cases able to provide certain services more 
efficiently than other parties.  
 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee has agreed terms of reference, and consists of David Mace (Chairman) and 
Julian Paul, both of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.  
 
The Remuneration Committee met formally once during the Financial Year. It reviews the performance of the 
Executive Directors and determines and agrees with the Board policy for remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and other senior executives including pension rights, bonuses and other benefits. The Committee 
determines targets for any Group wide bonus scheme and approves option grants to individuals in the 
Group. 
 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee has agreed terms of reference, and consists of Russell Hoyle (Chairman), Luke 
Alvarez, David Mace and Julian Paul, the latter two members being independent Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company.  
 
The Board believe that the members of the Nomination Committee have a balance of skills and experience 
relevant to the wide ranging activities of the Group and that the structure is therefore appropriate with regard 
to the size and activities of the Group. 
 
The Nominations Committee meets as and when necessary to review the structure, size and composition of the 
Board, recommend changes, consider succession planning, and identifying and nominating Board candidates 
for approval by the Board.  
 
The Nominations Committee met once during the Financial Year to nominate Steven Rogers as Executive 
Director of the Inspired Gaming Group plc Board.     Corporate Governance Report  
Inspired Gaming Group plc Report and Accounts 2009  29 
 
 
Risk Management/Internal Control 
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and risk management and for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group's risk procedures. Any such system is designed to manage rather than to 
eliminate the risk of failing to meet its business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The role of management is to implement the 
Board's policies on risk and control including reporting.  
 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee to monitor the effectiveness of internal 
controls and risk management systems and to make recommendations to the Board. 
During the Financial Year the Group relied on internal control and risk procedures in place prior to the Pubs 
disposal. During the Financial Year the business completed the exit from Pubs and significantly simplified 
and down sized the business. As a result the Company does not maintain a separate risk and compliance 
function nor an internal audit function. These functions are the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer 
and the Audit Committee. 
 
Gambling Act 2005  
The Group fully supports the licensing objectives of the Gambling Act 2005 being: 
 
  keeping crime out of gambling 
  making sure that gambling is fair and open  
  protecting children and vulnerable people from harm 
 
and recognises its responsibility to comply with those licensing objectives and the licence conditions and 
codes of practice attached to its operating licences.  
The Group has written policies and procedures in place which support the licensing objectives and licence 
conditions and codes of practice. Compliance with those policies and procedures is monitored.   
 
Relations with Shareholders 
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and 
performance, Board membership and quality of management. The Board uses various means to 
communicate with investors and encourage their participation, including RNS announcements, the 
Company's website and the annual general meeting and any general meetings as well as interim and full-
year financial reports. 
 
Re-election of Directors 
All Directors are required to seek re-election on an ongoing basis at intervals of no more than three years. 
 
Going Concern Statement 
After making enquiries and reviewing the Group's budget for the period of 12 months from the date of these 
financial statements, the Board considers that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue operating in the foreseeable future. Therefore the going concern basis has been adopted in 
preparing these financial statements. 
 
 
 
Julian Paul FCA 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director      19 January 2010
 
 