 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
InTechnology plc is an unlisted public 
company and is not therefore required 
to comply with the provisions of the UK 

The following disclosures are made 
voluntarily.
Principles of Corporate Governance
The Board recognises the value of good 
corporate governance as a positive 
contribution to the well being of the 
business and believes in applying these 
principles in a sensible and pragmatic 
manner that are considered appropriate 
to the nature and size of the Group.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors consists of seven 
members, including a non-executive 
Chairman and two other non-executive 
Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer are separated and 
clearly defined. The activities of the 
Company are controlled by the Board, 
which meets throughout the year. 
There is a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for the full Board's 
decision, together with a policy enabling 
Directors to take independent advice 
in the furtherance of their duties at 
the Company's expense. The Board 
programme is designed so that Directors 
have regular opportunity to consider the 
Company's strategy, policies, budgets, 
progress reports and financial position 
and to arrive at a balanced assessment of 
the Company's position and prospects.
Re-election of Directors
As required by the Company's Articles of 
Association, Directors offer themselves 
for re-election at least once every three 
years. Any Director appointed during the 
year is required to seek reappointment 
by shareholders at the next Annual 
General Meeting. The biographical details 
of all the Directors are set out on pages 
10 to 11.
The Board is assisted by the Company 
Secretary, who provides a point of 
reference and regular support for all 
Directors and senior managers. He has 
responsibility for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed, for establishing 
the Company's corporate governance 
policies and for assisting the Board in 
facilitating compliance by the Company 
with its legal obligations.
The Board receives reports from the 
following three committees:
The Audit Committee 
Comprises two non-executive Directors 
and is chaired by Lord Parkinson. Its 
duties include a comprehensive review 
of the annual financial statements and 
interim update prior to Board approval 
and distribution to members. The Audit 
Committee meets at least twice a year 
to review the findings of the external 
auditors, key accounting policies and 
judgements. It has unrestricted access 
to the Company's auditors.
The Remuneration Committee 
Comprises two non-executive Directors 
and is now chaired by Charles Scott, 
following the death of Joe McNally. 
It meets at least once a year and is 
responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on remuneration policy 
for executive Directors and for setting 
salaries, incentive payments and the 
granting of share options.
The Executive Operating Board 
This comprises the executive Directors 
and certain senior business managers, 
and is chaired by the Chief Executive 
Officer. It acts as a general operating 
management committee and meets twice 
monthly for most of the year. It authorises 
recruitment and capital expenditure 
and reviews operational and financial 
performance.
Relations with shareholders
The Company seeks to ensure that 
all shareholders are kept informed 
about the Company and its activities. 
A comprehensive annual report and a 
half year interim trading update is sent 
to shareholders. The annual report is 
put on the websites of Sharemark 
(www.sharemark.com) and the Company 
(www.intechnology.com).
The Annual General Meeting is a forum 
for shareholders' participation with the 
opportunity to meet and question 
Board members.
15
INTECHNOLOGY PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 Internal control
The Board of Directors acknowledges its 
overall responsibility for the Company's 
systems of internal control and for 
monitoring their effectiveness. The Board 
has control over strategic, financial and 
compliance issues and has introduced 
a structure of responsibility with 
appropriate levels of authority.
The Company's Directors and varying 
levels of management have clear 
responsibilities in ensuring that 
the control environment operates 
efficiently. Clear lines of responsibility 
are developed through the Company's 
organisation structure. Ethical policies 
are communicated through all forms of 
personnel training and via appropriate 
procedures, in establishing a code 
of ethics.
Although no system of internal control 
can provide absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss, the 
Company's systems are designed to 
provide reasonable assurance that 
problems are identified on a timely 
basis and are dealt with appropriately. 
The principal features of the Company's 
internal financial control structures can 
be summarised as follows:
(a)  Preparation of budgets and forecasts 
approved by the Board.
(b)  Monthly management accounts, 
showing comparisons of actual 
results against budget and prior 
year results, are reviewed by the 
Board. Variances from budget are 
thoroughly investigated and discussed 
at bi-monthly Board meetings. Where 
lapses in internal control are detected, 
these are rectified.
(c)  The Company's cash flow is monitored 
monthly.
(d)  The Board authorises capital 
expenditure where this is significant 
and all capital expenditure is first 
authorised by the Executive Operating 
Board.
The Board has continued to enhance its 
risk control programme; in particular, 
those elements which relate to ensuring 
that risk reviews are formally embedded 
in control systems rather than being the 
subject of formal annual reviews.
Risks and uncertainties
There are a number of potential risks and 
uncertainties that could have an impact 
on the Company's long term prospects.
Competitive pressures 
Both our managed data and managed 
voice services divisions operate within the 
UK in a competitive environment. 
The MDS division market outsourced 
online data for both primary and 
secondary data services that compete 
with traditional in-house computer 
solutions. Network services compete 
with all the major telecom companies 
and data centre hosting competes with 
many specialist data centre companies. 
To mitigate these competitive pressures 
the Company markets its various 

targets niche sectors of the market 
and constantly develops and refines its 
services to demonstrate a competitive 
edge to existing and potential customers.
The MVS division has competition from 
the large telecom companies and many 
smaller operators. To mitigate these 
competitive pressures the Company 
offers more value added services such 
as Voice over IP and its recently launched 
mobile phone services. Such services 
help differentiate the Company and earn 
higher margins than commodity services 
such as unmanaged lines and call 
minutes.
Both data and voice divisions contract 
with agreed SLAs. Adherence by the 
Company to operating within such SLAs 
is crucial to maintaining customer 
satisfaction and renewal of a contract. 
Internal procedures ensure that SLAs 
are constantly monitored and resources 
allocated to maintain levels of service of 
at least a minimum of that contracted 
with customers.
16
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
INTECHNOLOGY PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 Staff costs
As an IT managed services business total 
staff costs are approximately 50 percent 
of our total operating costs. The Company 
could be hindered by a shortage or 
inability to recruit and retain qualified and 
experienced staff.
To mitigate this risk the Company 
constantly seeks to structure its 
recruitment and retention strategies to 
attract and retain the right people.
Economy
Any national economic downturn can 
detrimentally affect the Company's level 
of demand for its data and voice services.
To mitigate this risk the Company usually 
contracts for all services on a three year 
or longer minimum term and constantly 
reviews, develops and enhances its 
product range so that customers can 
improve their own productivity or reduce 
their current bought in costs.
Risk assessment
The Board is made aware of all risks to 
the Company by the executive Directors 
who are members of the Executive 
Operating Board, which includes senior 
managers of the Company. The Executive 
Operating Board usually meets two times 
per month.
The Executive Operating Board has 
established an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Company.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the group and 
parent company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 

by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the group and the 
company and of the profit or loss of the 
group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:

then apply them consistently;

estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;

adopted by the European Union have 
been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements;

the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the company's transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the company and 
the group and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the company and the group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for 
the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company's website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
 
So far as the Directors are aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company's auditors are unaware. Each 
Director has taken all the steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director in order 
to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that 
the Company's auditors are aware of that 
information.
By order of the Board
Richard James
Company Secretary
7 June 2012 
17
INTECHNOLOGY PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012