 09
Intelligent Environments Group plc annual report 2002
Corporate Governance Statement
Introduction
The Board of directors is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and the
directors support the Combined Code. However, being a small company with limited resources, the directors have
decided to move towards full compliance with the Code over a reasonable period of time and as appropriate for the
size of business. In accordance with the Code, this section is split into two parts, the first statement sets out how
the Company has applied the principles and the second statement deals with compliance with the provisions of the
Code during the accounting period.
Principles of the Combined Code
Board of directors
Board meetings are scheduled to take place every month and last year ten meetings were held. There is a
Company procedure which describes the matters that are reserved for the Board and all members of the Board
have access to this document. The main items reserved for the Board include acquisitions, disposals, treasury,
major capital expenditure and research and development. In addition, approval of the annual budget and the
quarterly re-forecasts is performed by the main Board.
If required, the directors are entitled to take independent advice and if the Board is informed in advance, the cost of
the advice will be reimbursed by the Company.
The company secretary's services are available to all members of the Board. The appointment and removal of the
company secretary is a decision for the Board as a whole.
During the year the Board comprised, for the most part, the independent non-executive chairman, the chief
executive, two other independent non-executive directors and one other executive director. Notwithstanding any
interests in the share capital of the Company that they may have, the Company considers the three non-executive
directors (other than L T Shafe) who served during the year to be independent of management because they have
never had an executive position at the Company, nor have they had a personal relationship with any member of the
Board and were selected with the approval of all other directors.
Non-executive directors are appointed on a three month rolling term and are subject to re-election along with the
executive directors. The Company does not combine the role of chairman and chief executive.
The Board is provided with extensive Board papers, usually the week before each Board meeting.
The Remuneration Committee, the report of which is on pages 12-13, comprises the non-executive directors who
served during the year and is chaired by W S C Richards. It is responsible for the terms and conditions and
remuneration of the executive directors. The Remuneration Committee may consult external agencies when
ascertaining market salaries. The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference and the chairman of the
Remuneration Committee is available at the AGM to answer any shareholder questions.
The Company has an Audit Committee chaired by W S C Richards and comprising the non-executive directors with
the acting finance director usually in attendance. The Committee meets at least twice a year and has written terms
of reference. It monitors the adequacy of the Group's financial controls and provides the opportunity for the external
auditors to communicate directly with the independent non-executive directors. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Company gives high priority to its communication with shareholders by means of an active investor relations
programme. This is achieved through correspondence together with extensive corporate information that is regularly
updated on the Company's website www.ie.com. In addition, the Company visits its main institutional investors 10
Intelligent Environments Group plc annual report 2002
bi-annually and makes available, free of charge, its Interim and Annual Reports from the Company's head office. At
the AGM, the shareholders are given the opportunity to question most of the members of the Board. All Board
committee members are available to answer questions at the AGM. The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at
least 21 working days before the meeting.
Internal control
The Board of directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Group's systems of
internal control. There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly, even the most
effective systems can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group's control environment is the responsibility of the Group's directors and managers at all levels. The
Group's organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility. Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary
companies is delegated to the operational management, including key risk assessment. The main operating
subsidiary has a management board that meets at least monthly to review financial performance against agreed
targets and set objectives for the following month. In addition, this team is responsible for resource allocation,
internal communication vehicles and enforcing the Company's policies and procedures. The chairperson for the
management boards sits on the plc Board and is mandated to report monthly to the Board, highlighting financial
performance, operational achievements, significant risks attached to achieving the Group's objectives and to seek
approval for matters reserved for the plc Board.
This structure facilitates a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk with the business and is
supported by an audit committee that meets with the auditors twice a year.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system and as a matter of routine,
compares actual results with budgets that are approved by the Group Board of directors. Management accounts are
prepared for each subsidiary company and for the Group on a monthly basis. Material variances from budget are
thoroughly investigated. In addition, updated forecasts are prepared, at least quarterly, to reflect actual performance
and the revised outlook for the year.
The Board considers that in light of the control environment described above, there is no current requirement for a
separate internal audit function.
Provisions of the Combined Code
As stated in the introduction, the Company reports on its compliance with the detailed requirements of the
Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2002. Other than the provisions of the Code mentioned
below, the Company believes it has complied with the provisions throughout the year.
Training of directors
The Company as yet does not have a formal training procedure for new directors as recommended by provision
A.1.6.
Senior independent director
Currently the Board does not have a designated senior non-executive director as recommended by provision A.2.1.
Nomination committee
The Company feels that at this stage in its development it is too small to establish a separate nomination committee
as recommended in provision A.5.1. All Board directors have a major input to the appointment of new directors.
Corporate Governance Statement  11
Intelligent Environments Group plc annual report 2002
Review of internal controls
The Board has yet to carry out a full assessment of business risks in line with published guidance by the Turnbull
Committee. However, the Board recognises that the Group operates in highly competitive markets that can be
affected by factors and events outside its control. It is therefore committed to minimising risks arising, wherever
possible and is aware that improvements are required in business risk identification, control and monitoring to
ensure that risks in material areas are driven down to acceptable levels. Accordingly, the Board is unable to state
that they have adhered to the guidance laid down by the Turnbull Committee on internal controls, as recommended
by provision D.2.1 of the Combined Code.
Other matters
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group's financial statements.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and
loss of the Group for that period. 
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and that reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2002. The directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept, for safeguarding the assets of
the Company and Group and hence for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website, including the financial
information on the Company and Group contained thereon. The legal requirements relating to the contents of
corporate websites are currently unclear, in particular because information published on the Internet is accessible in
many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
By order of the Board
P R Blundell
Company secretary
8 May 2003