 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
24 INTERBULK GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  2010
The Directors acknowledge the importance of the principles 
set out in The Combined Code (2008) on Corporate Governance 
(the code ) issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
June 2008. Although the Code is not compulsory for AIM 
listed companies, the Directors have applied the principles 
of the Code as far as practicable and appropriate for a public 
company of its size as follows:
The Board of Directors
As at the date of this report the Board consists of three 
executive Directors and seven non-executive Directors. Of the 
non-executive directors D Rolph (Chairman), G Bissett and E 
van der Werff are viewed as independent as defined by the 
Code. The role of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct. 
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board 
and ensuring communication with shareholders and the Chief 
Executive is responsible for the management of the Group. 
Graeme Bissett is the senior independent non-executive 
Director and is available should a shareholder request direct 
access for matters which they believe are not appropriate 
through the normal channel of the Chairman, Chief Executive 
or Finance Director. He is also responsible for the process of 
appraising the Chairman's performance.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for strategy, 
performance, approval of major capital investments, 
treasury and financing matters, human resource strategy, 
risk management procedures and the framework of internal 
controls. The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved to it for decision. To enable the Board 
to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate 
and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed to all 
Directors in advance of Board meetings. All Directors have 
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, 
who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with. On appointment of a new Director the Chairman 
ensures a full, formal and tailored induction is provided. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
for the Board as a whole. In addition, procedures are in place 
to enable the Directors to obtain independent professional 
advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, 
at the Company's expense. This year the Board process 
of performance review has been significantly enhanced 
through an excellent and comprehensive presentation of 
KPI's. Specific strategic initiatives such as the development 
of business in China and the repositioning of the Dry Bulk 
business have been the subject of detailed review. A board 
committee has been tasked with the development of options 
regarding the capital structure of the business.
The Chairman performs an annual evaluation of the 
effectiveness of the Board. This is conducted by a combination 
of written survey questionnaires followed by a series of 
discussions. The outcome of these evaluations show that 
Directors were positive about the performance and process of 
the board and board committees. The modus operandi of the 
Board and its priorities are annually reviewed and recorded in 
a Board Charter.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of attendance 
of Directors at Board Meetings. The Board has met for seven 
scheduled meetings during the course of the 12 months under 
review and attendance at such board meetings by individual 
Directors is set out below.
 Board Meetings
K van Wissen 7
S Cunningham 7
B Thomson 4
D Rolph 7
J McColl 5
G Bissett 7
E van der Werff 7
T Thordarson (6 prior to appointment) 1
H Ludvigsson (6 prior to appointment) 1
H Montjotin 5
Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders 
at Annual General Meetings. The Articles of Association 
provide that Directors will be subject to re-election at the 
first opportunity after their appointment and the Board will 
voluntarily submit to re-election at intervals of three years. 
Brief biographies of all Board members, giving details of 
their experience and other main commitments are included 
on pages 17 to 19. The Chairman is pleased to confirm that 
the performance of all Directors has been reviewed and 
continues to be regarded as effective, and that the Directors 
offering themselves for re-election at the AGM continue to 
demonstrate commitment to the role of Director.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee during the year consisted of G Bissett 
(Chairman of the Audit Committee), E van der Werff and D 
Rolph. The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the 
Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of external auditors and approves 
their remuneration and terms of engagement, including 
developing and implementing a policy on the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm. It also reviews 
and monitors the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor. At the year end meeting to review the annual report 
and accounts the Audit Committee formally considers the 
level of non-audit services and fees provided by the group's 
auditors. The detail and level of fees are fully discussed and 
the committee is satisfied that there is no risk to the objectivity 
and independence of the external audit arising from the 
level of non-audit fees. The Audit Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of internal financial controls and the processes 
for evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group. The 
Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance 
with accounting and legal requirements and for reviewing 
the annual and interim financial statements prior to their 
submission for approval by the Board. The Audit Committee 
met twice during the year ended 30 September 2010. These 
meetings were attended by the full Audit Committee. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  
INTERBULK GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  2010 25
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee during the year consisted of 
E van der Werff (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee), 
G Bissett and D Rolph. The Committee's primary role is to 
consider and approve the remuneration and benefits of the 
Executive Directors. In framing the Company's remuneration 
policy, the Remuneration Committee has given full 
consideration to Section B of The Combined Code. The Report 
on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 26 to 28. The 
Remuneration Committee met twice during the year ended 
30 September 2010. These meetings were attended by the full 
Remuneration Committee.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee during the year consisted of E 
van der Werff (Chairman of the Nominations Committee), D 
Rolph, G Bissett, J McColl and K van Wissen. The Committee 
leads the process for Board appointments and makes 
recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and 
composition of the Board. The Nominations Committee led 
the process for the appointment of two new nominated 
representatives of Atorka Holdings BV. The Nominations 
Committee also has reviewed the succession planning for 
Executive Board members and met once during the year ended 
30 September 2010. This meeting was attended by the full 
Nominations Committee.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's strategic 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key 
risk management processes and systems of internal control 
include the following features:
The Group's organisational structure has clear lines of  	
responsibility and delegated authority;
The Board is responsible for identifying the major  	
business risks faced by the Group and for determining the 
appropriate courses of action to manage those risks. A 
formal risk register is maintained and is presented at each 
Board meeting;
The Group prepares a comprehensive annual business  	
plan and financial budget that is approved by the Board. 
Monthly results are reported against the budget and 
variances are closely monitored by the Directors; and
Executive Directors hold regular meetings with the  	
Executive Managers of the Group's business units.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control as it operated during the year ended 
30 September 2010.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director normally 
meet the major shareholders twice annually and brief the 
next board meeting on their discussions. The Board uses the 
Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and 
welcomes their participation. The Chairman aims to ensure 
that the Directors, including non-executive Directors, are 
available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions. 
The Board decided to integrate the roles of Nomad and Broker 
during the year and Arbuthnot Securities were appointed to 
provide the combined service.
Going Concern
After consideration of the future and taking into account 
all information available, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Statement by Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of 
the Combined Code
The Board considers that they have complied with the 
provisions of The Combined Code, as far as practicable and 
appropriate for a public company of this size, in accordance 
with the recommendations on corporate governance of the 
Quoted Companies Alliance. There are no specific provisions 
of the Combined Code that have not been adopted.