 36  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Group continues to be committed to the overall principle of effective corporate governance and confirms that it has
complied throughout 2002 with the detailed Code Provisions set out in the Committee on Corporate Governance report
(The Combined Code ) issued in June 1998.
The directors are required to report on how the Group applies the Principles of Good Governance contained within The
Combined Code.
DIRECTORS
THE BOARD
The Company currently has a six-member Board of directors, which meets regularly and is responsible for the overall
strategy and direction of the Group. The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board,
including the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, treasury policy and
significant financing matters. There are procedures in place to enable all directors to take independent professional
advice.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated, and there is a clear division of responsibilities to ensure a 
balance of power and authority.
BOARD BALANCE
The Board currently comprises three executive and three non-executive directors. The composition of Audit and
Remuneration Committees is entirely non-executive in nature. A brief resume of each of the non-executive directors is
contained within the Report of the Directors. All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent.
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION
The Board receives monthly information which includes actual, budgeted and prior year financial performance. Key 
performance indicators are also reviewed on a monthly basis. Detailed annual budgets and projections for subsequent
years are presented and discussed at Board level. Non-executive directors are appraised of all matters in between 
meetings that may materially impact upon the Group.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
As the Board is small a Nomination Committee has not been established. Any appointments to the Board are a matter for
the whole Board to consider.
RE-ELECTION
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment,
and submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals, and at least every three years, thereafter. Each executive 
director serves under contracts which are terminable by the Company giving not less than one year's notice. 
Non-executive directors have fixed three year term service contracts.
As at 31st December 2002, the unexpired terms of the directors and non-executive directors service contracts standing
for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting are as follows:
J. F. Parker 12 months
A. G. Kay 12 months
K. G. Harvey 1 year and 10 months
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
LEVEL AND MAKE-UP OF REMUNERATION, PROCEDURE AND DISCLOSURE
The Board, through the Remuneration Committee, sets the Group's remuneration policy for executive directors and 
determines the specific remuneration, benefits and terms of employment of each executive director. Further details 
relating to Directors' Remuneration are given under the heading Directors' Report on Remuneration. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company maintains regular contact with its major institutional shareholders, and monitors the extent of significant
shareholdings in the Company. Where institutional shareholders express a desire to meet directors, every effort is made to
appropriately appraise such shareholders of Company objectives. The Company compiles the Annual Report with all
shareholders' interests in mind, and specifically includes reports by the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director, covering strategy, objectives, operational and financial performance. 37
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company holds an Annual General Meeting, notice of which is sent to shareholders at least 21 working days before
the meeting. Separate resolutions are tabled for each substantial issue, and specifically include a resolution relating to the
Annual Report and Accounts. Each resolution is voted upon by a show of hands, having received proxy votes prior to the
meeting. All shareholders are encouraged to meet with the directors at the Annual General Meeting, and to ask questions
about the Group and its performance.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
FINANCIAL REPORTING
It is the directors' responsibility to prepare the Annual Report and Accounts, and a detailed statement is set out within the
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
The Group's auditors also have a responsibility to report their independent opinion on the financial statements, and details
are given within their Independent Auditors' Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts include the Chairman's Statement, Chief Executive Officer's Report, and the Financial
Report, together with other elements of information such as segmental performance. These reports give a detailed insight
to the strategy, objectives and operations of the Group, and outline the future strategy and prospects.
GOING CONCERN
The directors have made appropriate enquiries as a result of which they have a reasonable expectation that the Company
and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness. However,
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can 
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code introduced a requirement, that the directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of 
internal control. This extends the original requirement in respect of internal financial controls to cover all controls 
including financial, operational, compliance, and risk management.
Key elements of the Group's system of internal control are as follows:
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of
its operations across the world. The Group has a Code of Business Conduct, approved by the Main Board, which provides
practical guidance for all staff. There are also procedures in place for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent
activities.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business 
operations in order to achieve Group objectives. Lines of responsibility and delegations of authority are documented. Each
division has an operating executive board of directors who are responsible for the day to day operations of the division.
RISK IDENTIFICATION
Group and divisional management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to their
areas of business. These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or 
external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and
regulatory requirements.
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews, which include consideration of long-term financial projections
and the evaluation of business alternatives. Operating businesses prepare annual budgets and three-year strategic plans.
Performance against plan is actively monitored at Board and divisional level, supported by regular forecasts. Forecasts
and results are consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Through these mechanisms, Group performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their 
financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented. CONTROL PROCEDURES
The Group and its operating businesses have implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and 
accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud. Measures
taken include physical controls, segregation of duties and reviews by management. During the year an Internal Audit
Department was established. 
A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides for a documented
and auditable trail of accountability. These procedures are in place across Group operations and provide for successive
assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board. Planned corrective actions
are independently monitored for timely completion.
MONITORING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION
There are clear and consistent procedures in place for monitoring the system of internal controls. The Audit Committee
meets at least twice a year and, within its remit, reviews the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls and
reports received from both the internal audit function and management.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS
The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board and comprises solely non-executive directors. The Chief Executive and
Group Finance Director attend on invitation by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The committee has formal terms of reference, and meets at least twice a year.
38  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)