 Corporate Governance
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and this statement
describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Group. Throughout the year
ended 30 June 2006 the Company has been in compliance with the code provisions set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting
Council in July 2003 except for the following matters:-
  The roles of Chairman and CEO are combined and undertaken by Sir Alan Sugar which
the Board considers is appropriate given the entrepreneurial nature and size of the
Company;
  The Company does not have a separate Nominations Committee as the Board believes
that given the size of both the Company and the Board, this role should be undertaken
by the Board as a whole; and
  The Board has adopted an informal approach to evaluating the individual performance of
directors, Board Committees and the Board as a whole and as such does not strictly
comply with the Combined Codes requirement for a formal evaluation process.
The Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. The matters
specifically reserved for decision by the Board include:-
  Setting and monitoring Group strategy;
  Approving the annual budget and any major capital expenditure or divestment projects;
  Reviewing trading performance during the year;
  Reviewing the Group's systems of internal control and risk management;
  Approving the terms of reference of Board Committees;
  Approving appointments to the Board and the appointment of the Company Secretary;
and
  Approving Directors' remuneration and the remuneration policy for the Company.
The Board consists of five executive directors and two non-executive directors. On appointment to
the Board each new appointee is required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting
following their appointment. In addition, one third of the Board retires by rotation at each Annual
General Meeting with every director seeking re-election at least every three years. The names and
responsibilities of individual directors are set out on page 1. Both non-executive directors are
considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. The
Board has designated Mr. J. E. Samson as the senior non-executive director. The terms and
conditions of employment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the
Company's registered office and at the Company's Annual General Meeting.
The roles of Chairman and CEO are combined and undertaken by Sir Alan Sugar which the Board
considers appropriate given the entrepreneurial nature and size of the Company. Sir Alan Sugar is
also a director of various companies within the Amshold group which he controls.
All directors are given full and free access to all relevant information and are able to take
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company Secretary has the responsibility for ensuring Board procedures are followed and for
advising on governance matters. The Company Secretary is also secretary to the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. Formal minutes of Board and Committee meetings are prepared and
distributed as appropriate to each director.
4
838992  2/10/06  9:50 am  Page 4 Corporate Governance (continued)
The Board (continued)
The Board met eleven times during the last year. The Audit Committee met four times and the
Remuneration Committee met twice during the last year. The number of Board meetings, Audit and
Remuneration Committee meetings attended by each director was as follows:-
Audit Remuneration
Board Committee Committee
Sir Alan Sugar 11 n/a 1(*)
M. A. G. Bland 11 4( =)2( = )
I. P. Saward 11 n/a n/a
S. Sugar 10 n/a n/a
J. S. Beattie 10 n/a n/a
J. E. Samson 10 4 2
M. R. Mountford 10 4 2
*
Although Sir Alan Sugar was not a member of the Remuneration Committee he was invited to attend.
= M.A.G. Bland attends the Audit and Remuneration Committees in his capacity as Company Secretary.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated authority to Board Committees to deal with certain matters in accordance
with their terms of reference. During the year, the Board had two sub-committees which operate
within defined terms of reference, a Remuneration Committee and an Audit Committee, both of
which consist of the two non-executive directors. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of Ms M. R. Mountford (Chairman) and Mr J. E. Samson.
The Remuneration Committee, which met twice this year, is responsible for:-
  Ensuring the maintenance of a company wide remuneration system;
  Reviewing and recommending to the Board any changes in directors' remuneration and
conditions of service;
  Authorising changes in remuneration or the terms and conditions of employment of
senior staff and approving the recruitment of senior staff; and
  Recommending to the Board proposals for new bonus schemes.
The Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy and
includes details of directors' remuneration and interests in options and shares, together with
information on service contracts is set out on pages 11 to 14. Copies of the Remuneration
Committee's terms of reference are available on request from the Company's registered office.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is comprised of Mr J. E. Samson (Chairman) and Ms M. R. Mountford. The
meetings are normally attended by the external auditors. The Committee, which met four times
during the year, is responsible for the following:-
  Reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Statement before they are
presented to the Board;
  Monitoring the Group's internal financial controls, accounting policies and financial
reporting;
  Reviewing the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors, their cost
effectiveness, independence and objectives; and
  Deciding the scope of the non-audit services provided by the external auditors which are
related to taxation services and accountancy advice mainly in respect of the implementation
of IFRS.
5
838992  2/10/06  9:50 am  Page 5 Corporate Governance (continued)
Audit Committee (continued)
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment and scope of the work of the external auditors and
assesses their independence and has recommended to the Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be re-
appointed as auditors at the next Annual General Meeting. Copies of the Audit Committee's terms
of reference are available on request from the Company's registered office.
Appointment to the Board
Appointment of executive and non-executive directors is undertaken by the Board as a whole as the
Board believes the company's size does not merit the creation of a separate Nominations Committee.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Company has in place a formal ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant business risks faced by the Group. This process, which was in place throughout the year
and up to the date of approval of these financial statements, is regularly reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control for directors on the Combined Code.
The key procedures that have been established and are designed to provide effective internal
control include:-
  Management and organisational structure - the Company has a clear organisational
structure with well defined lines of responsibility and appropriate levels of authority;
  Risk management - the Board is responsible for identifying and managing the major
business and financial risks faced by the Group;
  Financial control and reporting - a comprehensive system of budgeting, monthly
reporting and forecasting with monthly monitoring and formal reporting to the Board;
  Internal control procedures - documentation of procedures and authority levels in the
Company's procedures manual which is regularly updated; 
  Audit committee - meetings are held at least three times a year with the external auditors
to consider any reporting or control issues raised by the external auditors; and
  Internal audit - the Board considers annually whether there is the need for an internal audit
function but has concluded, having regard for the monitoring systems referred to above and
the size and complexity of the business, that there is no current business requirement for
such a role.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the
financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders, both private and institutional, are given a high priority and the
Company responds in a timely manner to all queries received. An investor relations page is
provided on the Company's website (www.amstrad.com) which includes copies of Company
Announcements, Annual Reports and Interim Statements. The Board uses the Annual General
Meeting to communicate with all investors and shareholders are given the opportunity to question
the Chairman. In addition the Company meets twice a year with major shareholders after the
release of the full year and half year results.
6
838992  2/10/06  9:50 am  Page 6