 AMTEUS plc 
 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
For the year ended 30 September 2008   
 
 
The Group is fully committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, however, it is not required to 
comply with the governance requirements set down in the Combined Code. The Board recognizes the value of the 
Code and are committed to meeting its requirements as far as can be reasonably expected for a public company of 
its size and nature. The commentary below therefore reflects voluntary compliance that has been achieved in the 
year. 
Board of Directors 
The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors which currently comprises four executive and two non-
executive directors. The key positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are fulfilled by two separate individuals 
with the Chief Executive retaining operational control of the Group. The Board currently considers that the breadth 
of experience of the Directors is sufficient to provide effective leadership for the Company and the Group. The 
Board intends to appoint two further non-executive directors in order to comply with the Combined Code. 
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at the first opportunity after their initial appointment and, in 
accordance with the Combined Code, at least every three years thereafter. 
The board meets at least eight times per year and is responsible for overall Group strategy, approval of annual 
budgets and monitoring of those budgets, approval of major capital projects and monitoring exposure to key 
business risks. The Board delegates day to day and business management control to the Executive Directors. All 
Directors have access to independent professional advice, if necessary at the Group's expense. 
The Group has established, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees of the Board with formally delegated 
duties and responsibilities. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for the 
remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and Senior Executives. The committee is also responsible for 
the approval of proposals for granting of share options. 
The members of the Remuneration Committee are The Rt Hon M Howard QC MP (Chairman of the Committee) 
and MD Abrahams CBE, DL. The committee met 2 times in the year. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the board in meeting its responsibilities with regard to external 
financial reporting. Its duties include reviewing the Group's financial controls, financial statements, preliminary 
announcements and any formal announcements relating to financial performance. 
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters pertaining to the appointment and remuneration of external auditors, 
including the scope of the audit and its cost-effectiveness. The committee also annually reviews the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors, accounting for any non-audit services provided by them. 
The Finance Director and external auditors, Deloitte LLP, are normally invited to attend all meetings of this 
committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee are The Rt Hon M Howard QC MP (Chairman of the Committee) and MD 
Abrahams CBE, DL. The committee met 2 times in the year. 
9  AMTEUS plc 
 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
For the year ended 30 September 2008   
 
 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations 
to the Board in respect of all new Board appointments. 
The members of the Nomination Committee are The Rt Hon M Howard QC MP (Chairman of the Committee) and 
MD Abrahams CBE, DL. The committee met once in the year. 
Relations with Shareholders 
The board considers communication with both its institutional and private shareholders as a high priority. The 
principal communication with investors is through the Annual General Meeting, the provision of Annual and 
Interim Reports and the company's website. 
The Company's brokers provide summary feedback from institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to 
meet institutional shareholders. 
All shareholders receive at least twenty one days notice of the Annual General Meeting and separate resolutions are 
put forward on each substantially separate issue.  
Internal Control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of the Group's systems of internal 
control.  
The key features of the Groups internal control structures are as follows: 
  Management Structure & Defined Responsibilities - The Board meets regularly and monitors the key 
business risks and reviews the strategic direction of the Group. It also has responsibilities as noted above. 
The board reserves to itself a range of key decisions to ensure it retains proper control of the Group. 
However it delegates authority to Executive Directors and Senior Executives who are responsible for the 
day to day management of the business. 
  Timely production of comprehensive management information - There is a comprehensive system of 
budgeting and forecasting which is regularly presented to the board. The performance of the Group is 
reported monthly and compared to the latest forecasts. 
 
Share Options 
The Group has previously established and granted share options in an approved share options scheme under the 
Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme. Further share options will be issued as the board deem necessary in 
order to recruit, retain and incentivize key staff and align their interests with that of the shareholders. Such grants 
are approved by the Remuneration Committee. 
Going Concern 
After making all appropriate enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Company and the Group 
have sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future however as set out in the Chairman's 
Statement there remains uncertainty in this respect. The Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis 
for the preparation of the financial statements. The Directors' consideration of the going concern basis is set out in 
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 
10  AMTEUS plc 
 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
For the year ended 30 September 2008   
 
11 
 
Statement of Directors Responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. The directors are 
required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union.  The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.   
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the 
company's financial position, financial performance and cash flows.  This requires the faithful representation of the 
effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework for the 
preparation and presentation of financial statements'.  In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be 
achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.  However, directors are also required to: 
  properly select and apply accounting policies; 
  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information; and  
  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to 
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's 
financial position and financial performance. 
 
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). The parent 
company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company. 
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 
  state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;  
 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
 