 Report on Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance 
contained in the Combined Code which is appended to the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable
to shareholders.
Statement about applying the principles of good governance
The explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out 
below and in connection with Directors' remuneration, in the Report on
Remuneration. 
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors meets not less than seven times a year. The Board
considers a range of matters for its approval, including setting Group 
strategy, acquisition policy, the budgets, major capital expenditure, material
contracts and appointments to subsidiary Boards and monitors the 
performance of the businesses against appropriate forecasts or 
benchmarks.  The Board is supplied with financial and operational 
information on a timely basis, which the Board believes is in a form 
and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties and carry out its 
responsibilities.  The Directors are provided with information and guidance
concerning the regulations applicable to Companies subject to the Listing
Rules and on their duties and responsibilities as Directors.  All Directors
have access to the Company Secretary and there is a procedure to enable
them to take additional independent professional advice at the expense 
of the Company. 
In addition to the Chairman, during the year the Board comprised three 
or four Non-executive Directors and five to seven Executive Directors. 
The Board currently has five Non-executive Directors and five Executive
Directors which it considers to be an appropriate balance of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors.  The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are separate.
The Nomination Committee has considered all appointments to the Board
made since 1 April 2003. Prior to that date the Board considered the
appointment of Directors should involve all Directors.
The Directors' diversity of experience and knowledge of the markets in
which ITE operates are key to the development of a robust strategy for the
Group and to its execution. The Non-executive Directors contribute an 
independent and objective view to the management of the company and
play a full and active part in the various Board committees.  The senior
independent Non-executive Director is Sir Jeremy Hanley.  The names and
biographies of the Directors are on pages 35 and 36.
Veronis Suhler Stevenson, a major shareholder of the Company has 
appointed Marco Sodi (who replaced Jeffrey Stevenson on 1 July 2003)
and Christopher Russell as its Nominee Directors pursuant to the terms
of its subscription agreement.  The Board do not consider that 
Messrs Sodi and Russell are independent in all matters but do consider 
that their independent judgement as members of the Remuneration, Audit,
Acquisition and Nomination Committees are not affected by their 
relationship with Veronis Suhler Stevenson.  The Board considers Iain
Paterson and Michael Hartley to be independent.  Sir Jeremy Hanley has a
marketing consultancy arrangement with the Company to promote and
open the Group's shows in its overseas territories.  The Board does not
consider that the existing relationship between Sir Jeremy Hanley and the
Company materially interferes with the exercise of his independent 
judgement.
Any Directors appointed during the year are required to offer themselves
for re-election. In accordance with the Articles of the Company all the other
Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years as required
by the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice except the Directors 
appointed by Veronis Suhler Stevenson.
Board committees
The Board has established four principal committees all of which have 
written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises only Non-executive Directors. The
Committee, which is chaired by Sir Jeremy Hanley, meets at least 
twice a year. The other members are Michael Hartley, Iain Paterson 
and Christopher Russell.  The meetings are also attended by the 
Finance Director, the deputy Finance Director and the Auditors.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing accounting procedures and the
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2003 26 internal control environment. The Committee also reviews announcements
of the Company's results and monitors compliance with accounting 
standards. In addition the Committee considers the appointment of the
Auditors, the scope of the audit and any issues arising, their fees and 
the nature, extent and costs of any non audit services provided by them. 
The Committee has access to any employee and is able to obtain 
external advice on any matter as required.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises only Non-executive Directors. 
The Committee, which is chaired by Sir Jeremy Hanley, meets at least 
three times a year. The other members are Michael Hartley, Iain Paterson
and Christopher Russell.  The meetings are also attended by the Chief
Executive Officer and external advisers as appropriate. It is the intention
that Michael Hartley will become Chairman effective at the Annual General
Meeting in 2004. 
Further information about the Committee is set out in the Report on
Remuneration on page 29.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Sir Jeremy Hanley, Michael Hartley,
Iain Paterson, Christopher Russell and Marco Sodi.  The Committee, which 
is chaired by Iain Paterson, is responsible, if requested by the Board, for
nominating candidates to the whole Board for approval and for considering
and making recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
Report on Corporate Governance (continued)
The Committee has been effective for all appointments made to the Board
since 1 April 2003.
The Acquisition Committee
The Acquisition Committee comprises Michael Hartley, Iain Paterson, 
Marco Sodi, Russell Taylor and Ian Tomkins.  The Committee, which is
chaired by Marco Sodi, is responsible to the Board for all aspects of all
acquisitions and divestments outside the ordinary course of business up 
to  5m in consideration.  Transactions of a greater size require the formal
approval of the Board.  The Committee is obliged to report regularly to 
the Board on all transactions under consideration or in contemplation.
Communication with shareholders
The Board considers communication with all shareholders to be extremely
important.  Shareholders are provided with full year and interim accounts 
to help them keep up to date with the performance of the Group and are
given the opportunity to ask questions directly of the Board at the Annual
General Meeting.  The Group's website is regularly updated with copies of 
all Group press releases.
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives
between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making strategic
presentations to institutional investors every six months following the 
publication of the half year and annual results, by meeting shareholders 
to discuss long-term issues and obtaining feedback and by communicating
regularly throughout the year. 
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2003 27 Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice
Except as disclosed above the Company has complied throughout the year
with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code.  The Board intends to comply with the provisions of the
revised Combined Code in as much as they are relevant to the Company.
Internal control
In applying the principle that the Board should maintain an ongoing 
sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment 
and the Company's assets, the Directors recognise that they have 
overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of 
controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective
and efficient operations, internal control and compliance with laws and 
regulations.  The objective of these systems is to provide reasonable
assurance of:
the identification and management of key business risks;
the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition;
the maintenance of proper accounting records and reliability of financial
information within the business for publication; and
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
 
 
 
 
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2003 28
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The system of internal control has been in place throughout the year and up
to the date of approval.  It is reviewed regularly by the Board and complies
with the Turnbull guidance. The Board has performed a specific assessment
of internal controls for the purpose of this annual report. The Audit 
Commitee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilites.
The Company does not currently have an internal audit function and the
Board considers that such a function is not currently needed. This position
is kept under review.