 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
45
UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance
The Compan is committed to high standards o corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the U 
Corporate Governance Code issued b the Financial Reporting Council in Ma 2010 ( the Code ). This statement describes 
how the principles o the Code are applied and reports on the Compan s compliance with the Code s provisions. 
The Board considers that the Compan has been in compliance with all the principles and provisions o the Code 
throughout the ear ended 30 September 2012 and to the date o this report. 
The Board
The Board o Directors ( the Board ) currentl has seven members, comprising the Non e ecutive Chairman, Chie 
E ecutive, Finance Director, an additional E ecutive Director, and three independent Non e ecutive Directors.
All the Directors bring strong udgement to the Board s deliberations. The Board is o su cient si e and diversit that the 
balance o skills and e perience is considered to be appropriate or the re uirements o the business. 
The Non e ecutive Directors are all independent o management and ree rom an business or other relationship, including 
those relationships and circumstances re erred to in provision B.1.1 o the Code that could materiall inter ere with the e ercise 
o independent and ob ective udgement. The Compan considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment. 
The Non e ecutive Directors were all appointed or an initial three ear term and, therea ter, sub ect to satis actor 
per ormance, ma serve additional three ear terms.
Michael Hartle has served on the Board or more than nine ears, having been a Non e ecutive Director since October 
2003. The Board highl values Mr Hartle s international e perience and knowledge o the sector in which ITE operates, 
and considers that the ualit o his continuing contribution to Board debate demonstrates an appropriate measure o 
ob ective anal sis and challenge. It there ore considers him to continue to be independent.
The Chairman and Chief Executive
The di erent roles o the Chairman and Chie E ecutive are acknowledged. A responsibilit statement or each o those 
roles has been agreed and adopted b the Board. 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Michael Hartle was the senior independent Non e ecutive Director throughout 2012. His responsibilities included leading 
the recruitment process or the new Chairman, being available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns which are not 
resolved through the normal channels, being a sounding board or the Chairman and leading the annual per ormance 
evaluation o the Chairman.
The Directors
The biographical details o the Board members are set out on pages 40 and 41. The Directors have all occupied, or occup , 
senior positions in U and or non U listed companies and have substantial e perience in business. The Non e ecutive 
Directors do not participate in an o the Group s pension schemes or in an o the Group s bonus, share option or other 
incentive schemes. At all times at least hal the Board, e cluding the Chairman, has comprised independent Non e ecutive 
Directors. At the AGM on 31 Januar 2013 all the Directors will once again o er themselves or re election in compliance 
with Code provision B.7.1.
Role of the Board
The Board is collectivel responsible or the proper management o the Compan . The Board normall meets not less 
than seven times each nancial ear and has a ormal schedule o matters reserved to it or decision making, including 
responsibilit or the overall management and per ormance o the Group and the approval o its long term ob ectives and 
commercial strateg , approval o annual and interim results, annual budgets, material ac uisitions and disposals, material 
agreements and ma or capital commitments, approval o treasur policies, and assessment o its going concern position.
Board members receive appropriate documentation in advance o each Board or Committee meeting which normall 
includes a detailed report on current trading and ull papers on matters where the Board will be re uired to make a 
decision or give approval. 
There is an established procedure or the preparation and review, at least annuall , b the Board o medium term plans 
and the annual budget. The business reports monthl on its per ormance against its agreed budget. The Board receives 
a monthl update on per ormance and reviews an signi cant variances. All ma or investment decisions are sub ect to 
post completion reviews.
During the ear the Chairman met with the Non e ecutive Directors without the E ecutive Directors present. 
Directors and O cers insurance cover, is provided b the Compan , in line with normal market practice, or the bene t o 
Directors in respect o claims arising in the per ormance o their duties. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance
46
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board effectiveness review
The ormal annual review o the per ormance o the Board, its Committees and the Directors was carried out be ore 
the ear end. This consisted o an internall run e ercise led b the Chairman assisted b the Compan Secretar . The 
appraisal uestionnaire used as part o the process was wide ranging and included uestions covering both Board and 
Committee per ormance. Individual per ormance was reviewed b the Chairman who, in turn, was appraised b the Senior 
Independent Director a ter consultation with both the other Non e ecutive Directors and the E ecutive Directors. 
The appraisal con rmed that the Board and its Committees were operating e ectivel . The eedback received rom 
the review resulted in a clear action plan or the ear ahead which includes urther re nement o the Group s strategic 
ob ectives, the ongoing development o senior management, closer monitoring o relationships with ke partners and 
stakeholders, and improving the wa s the Group communicates internall .
Independent professional advice
The Board has approved a procedure or Directors to take independent pro essional advice at the Compan s e pense, 
i re uired. No such advice was sought b an Director during the ear. In addition, the Directors have direct access to 
the advice and services o the Compan Secretar .
Training and development
An induction programme is arranged or newl appointed Directors which includes presentations on the business, current 
strateg and shareholder e pectations. Guidance is also given on the duties, responsibilities and liabilities o a Director o 
a listed compan and ke Board policies and procedures. Business amiliarisation involves Directors visiting e hibitions in 
markets in which the Group operates to gain a greater understanding o the Group s activities and to meet senior managers 
throughout the business. 
Ever Director has access to training as re uired and is encouraged to continue his or her own pro essional development 
through attendance at seminars and brie ngs. During the ear, Linda Jensen completed the Financial Times Non e ecutive 
Director Certi cate programme, which is a ormall accredited post graduate level uali cation or non e ecutives.
Con icts of interest 
The Compan s Articles o Association, in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise potential 
con icts o interest that ma arise and impose limits or conditions, as appropriate. The Compan has established a 
procedure whereb an decision o the Board to authorise a con ict o interest is onl e ective i it is agreed without the 
con icted Directors voting or without their votes being counted. In making such a decision, as alwa s, the Directors must 
act in a wa the consider in good aith will be most likel to promote the success o the Compan . No re uest to authorise 
an actual or potential con ict o interest was made during the ear.
Board Committees 
There are a number o standing Committees o the Board to which various matters are delegated. The all have ormal 
terms o re erence approved b the Board which are available on the Group s website (www.ite e hibitions.com). Their 
reports are set out on pages 49 to 58.
Attendance at meetings 
Attendance o Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the ear was as ollows:
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Neil England 75 7 4
Michael Hartle 75 7 6
Linda Jensen 75 7 6
Neil Jones 7- - Iain Paterson (resigned 23 March 2012) 3 - 4 5
Marco Sodi (appointed 1 Februar 2012) 5 - 4 2
Edward Strachan 7- --
Russell Ta lor 7- --
Total number of meetings 75 7 6
Shareholder relations 
The Compan is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has a well established c cle o communication 
based on the Group s nancial reporting calendar. The Chairman, Chie E ecutive and Finance Director, have dialogue with 
individual institutional shareholders and general presentations are given to anal sts and investors covering the annual and 
interim results. During the ear, a presentation was made to Board members b the Compan s brokers to update them on 
the views o ma or shareholders about the Compan . The Board also received institutional and anal sts eedback ollowing 
both the interim and annual results roadshows.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
47
The Business Review set out on pages 8 to 39 details the nancial per ormance o the Compan as well as setting out the 
risks it aces and plans or the uture. All shareholders will have the opportunit to ask uestions at the Compan s AGM 
on 31 Januar 2013. At the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current trading conditions. The Chairmen o the 
Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to answer uestions at the AGM. In addition, the 
Group s website containing published in ormation and press releases can be ound at www.ite e hibitions.com
Whistle-blowing arrangements
The Compan has an established polic which enables and encourages sta to report in con dence an possible 
improprieties in either nancial reporting or other matters.
Corporate social responsibility
Neil Jones, Finance Director, is the Board sponsor or environmental, social governance, communit investment and other 
corporate social responsibilit matters.
ASB Guidance on narrative reporting
The Compan considers that it is in compliance with the additional guidance on narrative reporting or U companies 
published b the Accounting Standards Board in Januar 2008.
Anti-corruption policy
As part o ITE s commitment to preventing briber and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever 
and in whatever orm it ma be encountered, a ormal anti corruption polic was approved b the Board in 2011 and 
appropriate procedures put in place, in line with guidance provided b the Ministr o Justice to ensure compliance with 
current legislation and the Compan s polic and related procedures. During the ear anti briber and corruption training 
was rolled out to the Board and the Group s senior management as part o an ongoing programme to heighten awareness 
o this sub ect.