 c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t
Pr INc IPles of cor Pora Te gover Na Nce ITM Power Plc (the Company ) is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance. The Board is accountable to  
The Company's shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group. The Directors acknowledge  
the importance of the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code. Combined Code. 
As an AIM quoted company, ITM Power is not obliged to comply with the full requirements of the Combined Code. However  
the Board intends to comply with its main provisions as far as reasonably practicable having regard to the size of the Group.
The Board recognises the importance to shareholders of Corporate Governance disclosure, and to this end The Company has 
developed a set of disclosures that it feels are consistent with the Group's size and the constitution of the Board. The Board 
intend to continue to develop these disclosures as the Group grows.
The Directors intend to comply with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules relating to directors' dealings as applicable to AIM companies  
and will also take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the Group's applicable employees.
The Boar D
The Board currently comprises the following members who are also members of the following committees of the Board:
Director Role
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Executive 
Committee
Dr S Bourne Chief Technology 
Officer
 
Dr G Cooley Chief Executive 
Officer
   
The Rt Hon  
Lord R Freeman
Non-Executive 
Director
   
Mr P Hargreaves Non-Executive 
Director
     
Prof R Putnam Non-Executive 
Chairman
       
30
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t Bala Nce of T he B oar D
ITM Power Plc has a separate Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, each having his own separate responsibilities. The 
Chairman is responsible for the effective working of the 
Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for 
all operational matters and the financial performance of 
the Group. The Board is balanced, both numerically and in 
experience, with the intention that no individual or small group 
of individuals should be able to dominate decision making. 
The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director. 
However, any of the Non-Executive Directors are available 
on request as a conduit of communication to the Board in the 
event that the Chairman and/or the Chief Executive Officer are 
not appropriate conduits for shareholder concerns and issues.
Ma TTers reserve D To T he B oar D's a TTe NTIo N
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for  
its decision covering the following areas:
  Management structure and appointments;
  Strategic/policy considerations
  Material transactions;
  Finance; and
  General governance and capital matters.
co MMITTees The Board operates through clearly identified Board 
committees to which it delegates certain powers. These are 
the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee, the 
Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee. 
They are properly authorised under the constitution of 
The Company to take decisions and act on behalf of the 
Board within the guidelines and delegations laid down by the 
Board. The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these 
committees and each committee has access and support from 
The Company Secretary.  
Any issues requiring resolution are referred to the full  
Board. A summary of the operations of these Committees  
is set out below. 
The Remuneration Committee's role is to determine and 
recommend to the Board the terms and conditions of service, 
the remuneration and grant of options to Executive Directors 
under the EMI scheme adopted by The Company. 
The Audit Committee's primary responsibilities are to monitor 
the quality of internal control, ensure that the financial 
performance of The Company is properly measured and 
reported on, and to review reports from The Company's 
auditor relating to its accounting and internal controls, in all 
cases having due regard to the interests of the shareholders.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments. It vets and presents to the Board potential 
new Directors, particularly Non-Executives. All new 
appointees undergo a rigorous nomination process before  
the Board agrees on their appointment.
The Executive Committee comprises Prof Roger Putnam 
as Chairman, Dr Graham Cooley (CEO), Dr Simon Bourne 
(CTO) and Barry Cunliffe (CFO). The Committee regularly 
meets to consider business development, management issues 
and the financial performance of The Company.
A copy of the Terms of Reference for these committees 
and the terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive 
Directors can be obtained by contacting The Company 
Secretary at The Company's head office. 
In addition, the Board receives reports and recommendations 
from time to time on matters that it considers significant to 
the Group.
c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t
31
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ITM Power Plc YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2013 c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t
Boar D Mee TINgs The Board scheduled four meetings in the year ended 30 April 2013 and additional meetings were convened when required.  
The table below shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the Committees during  
the year.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge 
its duties.
Regular Board Meetings Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
No. of meetings held 5 2 2
Non-Executive Directors
The Rt Hon  
Lord R Freeman
4
2 2
Mr P Hargreaves 4 2 1
Prof R Putnam (Chairman) 5 2 2
Executive Directors
Dr S Bourne 4 n/a n/a
Dr G Cooley 5 n/a n/a
Boar D Perfor Ma Nce a PPra Isal With the full support of the Board, the Chairman leads an evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees  
on a yearly basis. The last review concluded that the Board and its Committee are currently effective and each Director 
continues to demonstrate commitment to their role. 
re -elec TIoN of DIrec Tors New Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting of The Company following their appointment. In addition,  
all Directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of The Company. At each Annual General Meeting of The Company all 
those Non-Executive Directors who have been in office for nine years or more since the date on which they were originally elected 
as a Non-Executive Director of The Company are required to retire from office, but may stand for re-appointment. 
Boar D INDe Pe NDe Nce 
The Board recognises that Peter Hargreave's shareholding is a factor which, under the UK Corporate Governance Code, may 
appear to impair his independence. However, the Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character 
and judgement. The Non-Executive Directors have provided excellent independent advice and challenge throughout the year.  
In concluding that all its Non-Executive Directors are independent, The Company considered, inter-alia, the fact that all of the  
Non-Executive Directors are directors of other corporations and are not reliant on any shares or share options they hold in,  
or income they receive from, ITM Power Plc. 
32
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t INTer Nal co NTrol a ND r Isk M a Nage Me NT
 
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control. Such a system 
can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. Whilst it would not be practical for the Group, 
given its size, to maintain a dedicated Internal Audit function, these internal controls 
are reviewed periodically to check that they are operating as planned. The Group also 
has in place processes to deal with the identification, assessment and management of 
major business risks and tests these processes periodically. These processes and their 
controls are reviewed by the Executive Committee and, where appropriate, the Board.
rela TIo Ns w ITh sharehol Ders The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests  
in the Group's strategy and performance.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with 
investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders rests  
with the Chief Executive Officer, who makes himself available to meet shareholders 
for this purpose. Press coverage packs and analyst notes are made available to 
the Board at each regular Board meeting. The Chief Executive Officer is often 
accompanied at investor presentations by either the Chairman or the Chief Financial 
Officer. Shareholder communication is mainly co-ordinated by The Company's 
Corporate Communications Consultants, Tavistock Communications Limited.  
ITM Power is committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders through 
pro actively organising meetings and presentations with fund managers, retail brokers 
and analysts, as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries. The Company also 
recognises the importance of communicating appropriately any significant company 
developments. This is done via the Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service, which 
can be accessed through The Company's new website. 
The Company reports to shareholders twice a year. The reports and accounts 
are available on The Company's website: www.itm-power.com. All shareholders 
are encouraged to attend The Company's Annual General Meeting, at which the 
Chairman gives an account of the progress of the business over the year and provides 
the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions. The Board attends the meeting 
and is available to answer questions from present shareholders.
In all communications and events, care is taken to ensure that no price sensitive 
information is released and that any price-sensitive information is released to all 
shareholders at the same time, in accordance with AIM Rules.
au DITor INDe Pe NDe Nce 
The Group and Company seek to ensure the independence of its Auditor by limiting 
the non-audit work it performs. The Group and Company uses a range of advisors  
to give specialist advice in relevant areas.
c oRpoRatE govERnancE 
REpoR t
33
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ITM Power Plc YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2013 c oRpoRatE govERnancE REpoR t