  ITV plc Report and accounts 2008   
 Audit Committee report 96 
Role of the Audit Committee  
The role of the Audit Committee (the Committee ) is to monitor the 
integrity of the financial statements of the Company, assist the Board 
in reviewing the effectiveness of the Company's internal control and risk 
management systems, and review arrangements for its employees to 
raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial 
reporting or other matters. The Committee is also responsible for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the Company's internal audit function 
and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of the 
Company's external auditor. 
The Committee works to a structured programme of activities with 
agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual 
financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the 
Committee is required to consider regularly.  
Composition of the Committee 
The Committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive 
directors. The current members are: 
- Mike Clasper (Chairman); 
- John Ormerod; 
- Sir George Russell; 
- Agn s Touraine. 
In view of Mike Clasper's role as Chairman of HMRC, discussions relating 
to the Company's tax position are chaired by John Ormerod. 
Full details on membership of the Committee throughout 2008,  
and details of attendance at Committee meetings, can be found in the 
Corporate Governance section. 
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief 
Operating Officer, Group Finance Director, Deputy Group Finance 
Director, the Director of Internal Audit and representatives of senior 
management regularly attend Audit Committee meetings. The 
Committee as a whole has the opportunity to meet privately with the 
internal and external auditors prior to each meeting and did so before 
each meeting held in 2008. 
Activities in 2008 
The Committee met five times and discharged its responsibilities by: 
- reviewing the Group's draft financial statements (including detailed 
disclosures) prior to board approval; 
- reviewing the appropriateness of the Group's accounting policies and 
considering related accounting treatments in specific areas such as 
revenue recognition; 
- reviewing and approving the annual external audit plan; 
- reviewing the external auditors' reports on their work, considering the 
findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters had 
been satisfactorily resolved; 
- reviewing the management letter arising from the 2007 year-end 
external audit; 
- considering a review of the effectiveness of the external auditors; 
- monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the 
Group by its external auditors. The Committee has approved a 
formal policy governing the independence of the Company's 
external auditors and defining those non-audit services that may  
be provided to the Group, including those which require the prior 
approval of the Committee. This is explained further in the section  
on Auditor's independence and objectivity below; 
- reviewing and approving the internal audit plan and resources for  
the internal audit function. The internal audit plan is constructed by 
taking a risk based approach, encompassing financial, reputational, 
and broader macro-economic risks, with the review cycle designed 
such that financially material operations and areas of significant 
change are reviewed in a given year with all activities reviewed at 
least once every three years; 
- considering internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement 
the recommendations made in those reports and the status of 
progress against previously agreed actions; 
- reviewing the results of the Enterprise-wide Risk Management 
process, including consideration of a rolling programme of risk and 
internal control presentations made by each operating team and 
central service functions; 
- reviewing an annual report on the effectiveness of the Group's 
systems of internal control and reporting to the Board on the results 
of that review; 
- reviewing the effectiveness of procedural changes implemented 
following the review of premium rate services in 2007; 
- monitoring the implementation of a new integrated finance, 
procurement and HR system; 
- conducting post-acquisition reviews of businesses acquired in 2007 
and 2008; 
- reviewing the analysis supporting the impairment of goodwill before 
consideration by the Board; 
- reviewing the Group's cash flow forecasts and facilities to support the 
going concern statement in the annual report before consideration 
by the Board. The going concern statement is contained in the 
Business Review on page 36. 
- regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the whistleblowing process 
through which the employees may, in confidence, raise concerns 
about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other 
matters; 
- considering regulatory and professional developments in respect of 
financial accounting and reporting; and 
- receiving reports from the Treasury department on their activities.   ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance    
  
97 
Business review Governance Financial statements 
Auditor's independence and objectivity 
The Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided to 
the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a formal policy to 
ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity, which is 
available in full at www.itvplc.com. The policy is based on the five key 
principles which underpin the provision of other services by external 
auditors: the auditor should not audit its own firm's work, make 
management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial 
interest with the Group, develop a close personal relationship with the 
employees of the Group, or be put in the role of advocate for the Group. 
The policy sets a maximum 1:1 ratio for the annual split between audit 
and other fees charged by the external auditor.  
The Committee has pre-approved the categories of other services 
that may be performed by the external auditors and explicitly set out 
the categories of work that they may not perform. For this purpose 
auditing the accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to 
legislation and other services provided pursuant to legislation are 
regarded as audit services. The Committee believes that these policies 
accord with governance best practice including the Guidance on Audit 
Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2008. 
Committee approval is required for any engagement of the external 
auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of  0.1 million. Details of 
the related audit and other services are set out in note 4 of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
The Committee performs a specific evaluation of the performance 
of the external auditors annually, through assessment of the results of 
questionnaires completed by relevant executive management in 
addition to Committee members' own views of auditor performance.  
It is the Company's policy to carry out regular market testing either 
through benchmarking or a form of audit tender. 
During the year the Committee considered the tenure, performance 
and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work 
undertaken, and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the 
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Company's 
auditors be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2008. The 
resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc were re-appointed for a 
further year. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of internal 
control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems. 
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the Group's systems of 
internal control. The primary responsibility for the operation of these 
systems is delegated to line management. Such systems can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. Key control procedures are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: 
- Strategy and financial reporting: The Group performs a 
comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.  
The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the  
Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal 
responsibilities. The results of operating units are reported monthly, 
compared with their individual budgets and forecast figures and are 
reviewed. 
- Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: The Group 
has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines  
of responsibility and reporting. Authorisation procedures in respect  
of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, 
investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly defined. 
- Control environment: Financial controls and procedures are 
considered as part of the Group's ongoing risk assessment process 
and are reviewed as part of the Group's internal audit work 
programme. 
- Risk assessment: Management is responsible for identifying the risks 
facing the Company's business and for establishing controls and 
procedures to monitor and mitigate those risks. As part of those 
controls and procedures, the Company has established an Enterprise-
wide Risk Management (ERM) programme providing formal risk 
assessments. The ERM programme is co-ordinated through the 
Company's Risk department and the Internal Audit department 
provides the assurance role reporting to the Executive Committee, 
Audit Committee and the Board. 
The ERM programme is being embedded within operational 
processes and will help to identify new business opportunities as  
well as provide risk analysis for all new projects and businesses.  
The annual ERM programme cycle passes through a number of 
phases as it escalates through the business. The Audit Committee 
receive presentations from the executive team covering the risks of 
the operating units. Following such presentations and review, the 
executive team carry out a further risk consolidation process and 
then present the Company's overall major risks to the Board for 
consideration of the top risks which are then disclosed in summary 
form within the published Annual Report and Accounts. 
- Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: 
Controls are monitored by management review, Internal Audit, the 
executive directors and the Committee. Directors of each business 
team are required annually to confirm compliance with internal 
control in their area. Serious control weaknesses (if any) are reported 
to the Board and actions taken as appropriate.  
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that 
it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Company's 
expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within 
its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a 
meeting of the Committee as and when required. The Committee 
members are subject to the programme of continuing professional 
development that applies to the full board. The programme will be 
supplemented in 2009 with presentations by the external auditors at 
Committee meetings focusing on governance, legal and accounting 
developments. 
Approval  
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2009  
and signed on its behalf by:  
 
 
 
Mike Clasper  
Chairman, Audit Committee 