 Statement of Corporate Governance
Application of the Combined Code
The Board is committed to the highest standards of
Corporate Governance throughout the Group and is
accountable to the shareholders for good governance.The
listing rules of the UK Listing Authority ( the Listing Rules')
require listed companies to disclose, in relation to Section
1 of the Principles of Good Governance and the Code of
Best Practice produced by the Committee on Corporate
Governance and appended to the Listing Rules ( the
Combined Code'), how they have applied its principles and
whether or not they have complied with its provisions
throughout the financial year. Consequently, this statement
describes how the Company applies the principles and
complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
During 2003 the Board will be reviewing its Corporate
Governance arrangements following the Higgs report on
the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, and
the Smith report on the role of audit committees.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company fully complied
at 29 March 2003 with the provisions of Section 1 of the
Combined Code, having established its Nominations
Committee in July 2002.
Board of directors
The Board comprises an executive chairman, four other
executive and three non-executive directors (details are
set out on pages 12 and 13) and the structure is
considered by the Board to be appropriate. All three 
non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be
independent of executive management and free from any
business relationship which could materially interfere with
the exercise of their independent judgement. All of the
non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience
to the Board, fully participate in key issues concerning the
Company and have met twice during the year without 
the presence of the executive directors. All three 
non-executive directors sit on the Audit, Remuneration
and Nominations Committees.
The full Board is scheduled to meet at least nine times 
in each year, with additional meetings held if circumstances
require.
Directors are required to seek re-appointment by the
shareholders at the first opportunity following appointment.
Thereafter, directors are subject to retirement by rotation
in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association 
which provide that not less than one-third of the directors
who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire at
each Annual General Meeting.
Procedures have been established to enable directors
wishing to do so, in furtherance of their duties, to obtain
independent legal advice at the expense of the Company.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for
ensuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
There has been no change in the composition of the
Board during the year although in April 2002 the positions
of Chairman and Chief Executive held by John Jarvis were
altered. In order to implement better the Group's
diversification strategy, these roles were segregated by the
appointment of Richard Thomason as Chief Executive and
are now distinct and separate. John Jarvis remains as
executive Chairman, in a part time capacity from April
2003. James Joll, in his capacity as non-executive Deputy
Chairman, is identified as the senior independent director.
Although James Joll and Stephen Curran have been non-
executive directors for nearly 13 years, and John Clement
for 9 years, their business experience is considered by the
Board to add value and their views remain challenging to
executive management.
The Board retains full and effective control of the Group.
This includes responsibility for the overall business strategy
and development, acquisitions and disposals policy,
approval of annual profit plans, the monitoring of
performance against such plans, and major capital
expenditure projects.Treasury and risk management
policies, including adherence to current and proposed
health and safety legislation, are also monitored.
There is an established schedule of items which require
Board authorisation and an annual work programme of
policies for the Board to review.
Prior to each meeting the directors are sent the agenda
and all appropriate papers for the items to be discussed at
the meeting. Every four weeks the Board is provided with
details of the trading performance of the Group,
movements in the balance sheet and cash flow, together
with detailed management explanations.
As a result the Board is able to measure the Group's
progress against its strategic aims, its values and standards,
and to ensure that its obligations to all its stakeholders,
including shareholders, are fully understood and met.
While the Board retains overall responsibility for and control
of the Group, including its committees, management of the
strategies is conducted by the executive directors, together
with the heads of department who meet regularly on a
four-weekly basis to review operational decisions,
performance against strategic plans and policy proposals to
submit to the Board for authorisation.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to
established committees, as described below.The written
Terms of Reference for the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees are available for inspection at
the Registered Office of the Company.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's
systems of internal control and for reviewing their
effectiveness, and has established policies and procedures
designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. During the year, the
Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the
effectiveness of the framework of the Company's systems
of internal control.The Chairman reports the work of that
Committee promptly and regularly to the Board.
16 Jarvis Hotels plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003    Audit Committee
The Committee comprises all the non-executive directors
and meets at least three times a year. Other directors and
executives may attend meetings at the invitation of the
Committee Chairman.
There have been no changes to the composition of the
Committee during the year: James Joll and Stephen Curran
have been committee members since its formation in
1993 and John Clement since 1994.The Company
Secretary is secretary to the Committee and prepares
minutes, which are circulated to the Board.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference that have
been updated during the year, as well as an annual work
programme setting out key issues to be addressed at
specific times during the year.
The Committee reviews the Company's interim and annual
financial statements before submission to the Board for
approval.The Committee approves the systems, policies and
procedures of internal control, reviews regular reports from
management and the external auditors on accounting and
internal control matters and, where necessary, monitors the
progress of action taken on such matters.
The Committee recommends the appointment, agrees 
the fees, timetable, and scope of work of the external
auditors, and reviews their appropriate experience,
independence, objectivity and effectiveness. It receives 
their reports to management and evaluates their
conclusions and recommendations.
The Committee meets the external auditors each year to
discuss any issues identified during the course of the
annual audit work which may include matters relating to
systems and control procedures, as well to discuss that 
the accounts preparation is in accordance with adopted
accounting policies. It also meets the external auditors
without the presence of the executive directors as part 
of one of its regular meetings.
There is an ongoing process for evaluating and managing
the significant risks identified by the Company, and this
process has been in place throughout the year. For each
area of risk that has been identified, the Company has set
out policies or adopted procedures of internal control and
communication aimed at managing and thereby seeking to
minimise such risk. Adherence to such policies and
procedures is monitored either by the internal audit
department through a specifically designed audit
programme or through the use of external consultants.
The internal audit department aims to visit each of the
hotels on a regular basis and a schedule of hotel visits to
be made by external consultants is agreed with
management each year.The results of these visits are
subject to review by the Committee, which also reviews
the scope and programme of work of the internal audit
department. Health and safety matters are reported
regularly and directly to the Board.
The process accords with the Turnbull Committee
guidance on internal control issued in September 1999.
Remuneration Committee
Information on the Committee can be found in the
Remuneration report on pages 21 to 25.
Nominations Committee
This was established in July 2002 and comprises the
Chairman of the Board as its Chairman, the Chief Executive
and all of the non-executive directors. It has written Terms
of Reference.The Board considers it appropriate that the
Chairman of the Board is the Chairman of the Committee
as the procedures established for selection as a director are
sufficiently robust to support the independence criteria of
appointments to the Board.The Committee is responsible
for reviewing the structure and composition of the Board
and for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the
Board, candidates with suitable skills and experience to fill
vacancies as and when they arise. It meets not less than
once per year and at such other times as the Chairman of
the Committee shall require.
The Committee met once during the year to consider the
appointment of a new non-executive director to replace
Stephen Curran who will retire by rotation at the Annual
General Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.The
Committee has used the services of Hanson Green, to
assist in this process.
Communication with shareholders
The Company publishes annual and interim reports to all
shareholders. In addition, regular meetings are held with
institutional investors and the Annual General Meeting
provides shareholders with the opportunity to ask
questions of all the directors, including the chairmen of the
Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
Further information is available on the Company's website,
www.jarvis.co.uk
For and on behalf of the Board
Duncan Beveridge A.C.A.
Company Secretary
2 June 2003
Annual Report & Accounts 2003   Jarvis Hotels plc      17