 Annual Report 2005 11
Statement on Corporate Governance
The Company is not obliged to make a statement on corporate governance, however, the Directors are committed to good corporate governance
and have implemented procedures which the Directors consider appropriate to the Company.
The Directors have adopted the following approach throughout the year:
Board of Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors, which comprises Christopher Mills (Non-Executive Chairman), Philip Corke (Executive
Deputy Chairman), Stephen Bannister (Chief Executive), and Ralph Baber (Non-Executive Director). The Directors' biographical details are set 
out on page 8. The Board currently considers that the breadth of experience of the Directors is sufficient to provide effective leadership for 
the Company. The Board of Directors do not consider the Non-Executive Directors to be independent given their relationship with major
shareholding groups.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate Directors. The Chairman is responsible for the workings of the Board, the 
Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and for the implementation of strategy and policy. The division of their responsibilities 
is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
The Board meets at least six times per year, and has a formal list of matters specifically reserved for it, including overall Group strategy, approval
of annual budgets and monitoring achievement of those budgets, approval of major capital expenditure projects and monitoring exposure to key
business risks. The Board is responsible for monitoring the achievement of its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective corporate
governance, which includes the review of health, safety, environment, social and ethical matters. The Board delegates day to day and business
management control to the Executive Directors. Directors have access to independent professional advice, if necessary at the Company's expense,
and to advice and services from the Company Secretary whose appointment is a Board matter. The Board receives sufficient information in
advance to enable it to discharge its duties. Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all Directors and Officers of the Company.
All Directors offer themselves for re-election at the first opportunity after their initial appointment, and at least once every three years thereafter.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed on fixed term contracts, normally for three years, with no automatic re-appointment. There is a formal
induction process available to Directors. Directors may take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the
expense of the Company.
Certain duties are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has clear terms of reference. The terms of
reference of the Committees have been reviewed following publication of the new Code and are available, on request, from the Registered Office
of the Company.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chairman,
Executive Directors, and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving. Once approved, the Remuneration Committee
is responsible for evaluation of the performance and determining specific remuneration packages for each executive Director. Further details of 
the Remuneration Committee's duties and operating framework are provided in the Report on Directors' Remuneration. The members of the
Remuneration Committee are Christopher Mills (Chairman of the Committee), Ralph Baber (from 9 November 2004) and Peter Gyllenhammar
(until 9 November 2004).
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying and
recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise. In considering an appointment the Nomination
Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities 
required for a particular appointment.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the time commitment required from the non-executive Directors 
annually. The Nomination Committee met once during the year. The members of the Nomination Committee are 
Christopher Mills (Chairman of the Committee), Ralph Baber (from 9 November 2004) and Peter Gyllenhammar 
(until 9 November 2004). Jarvis Porter Group PLC 12
Statement on Corporate 
Governance
(continued)
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of external financial reporting. This includes
reviewing the Company's financial statements, preliminary announcements and any formal announcements relating to financial performance,
or other statements containing financial information, before submission to the Board for endorsement.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditors
and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness. The Committee reviews annually the independence and objectivity
of the external auditors taking into account the non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year. Only Committee members are entitled to attend a meeting. However the Finance Director and
representatives of Deloitte and Touche LLP are normally invited to attend. Others are also invited to attend as appropriate. A section of at least
one meeting annually will take place without management present. The members of the Audit Committee are Ralph Baber (Chairman of the
Committee from 9 November 2004), Christopher Mills and Peter Gyllenhammar (until 9 November 2004).
Relations with Shareholders
The Board considers dialogue with both its institutional and private investors as important. To ensure that the Board, particularly the non-
executive Directors, understands the views of major shareholders, the Company's brokers provide summary feedback from the meetings following
the announcement of the interim and final results. The Board is also provided with summaries of analysts' views on the Company. In addition the
Chairman attends any analyst briefings following results announcements and is available to meet institutional shareholders.
The Company notifies shareholders of the Annual General Meeting at least twenty working days before the meeting, and separate resolutions 
are put forward on each substantially separate issue, including the approval of the report and accounts. Details of all proxies lodged on each
resolution are announced after the show of hands on the resolution. Directors and chairs of committees are introduced at the meeting and 
are available to answer questions, before, during and after the meeting.
Financial Reporting
The Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and prospects in its annual report and accounts,
interim report and other significant information releases.
Internal Control
The Group's system of internal control incorporates a risk management policy for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by
the Group, and is embedded into day to day operating procedures and governance processes wherever possible to enhance control over individual
business units.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In doing so, the Board has considered
information generated from its control procedures, risk management policy and the Group's external auditors. The Board has also taken account 
of any material developments since 28 February 2005. Any system can only manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business
objectives. Therefore, the system can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance that the Group's assets are protected from material
misstatement or loss, and that proper financial records are maintained.
The key control procedures operating within the Group include but are not limited to;
  A comprehensive system of budgeting and forecasting, with a detailed periodic review of actual results compared to budgets and 
previous years.
  Procedures for the appraisal, review and authorisation of capital expenditure.
  Treasury procedures and banking arrangements.
  Financial controls and procedures to be adopted by operational managers.
  Monitoring and assessment of business risk and performance for each trading location via periodic review, with random audit of 
working practices and controls.
  Secure storage and back up of data held on computer systems. Annual Report 2005 13
The Directors have put in place an organisational structure appropriate for the size of the Group with defined lines of responsibility and delegation
of authority where the Board considers it necessary.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, and concluded that there is no requirement for such a function at present.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing
those accounts, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities.
The report of the auditors regarding their responsibilities is shown on page 17.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts.