 12 Jarvis Porter Group PLC   Annual Report 2004
The Company is not obliged to make a statement on corporate governance, however the Directors have noted the new Combined
Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 (the new Code ) and have implemented procedures to move towards compliance
with its requirements where appropriate.
The Directors have reviewed the Group's compliance with the Code of Best Practice as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code
appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (The Code ) and have adopted the following approach during the
year:
Board of Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors, which comprises Christopher Mills (Non-Executive Chairman), Philip Corke
(Chief Executive), Stephen Bannister (Group Finance Director) and Peter Gyllenhammar (Non-Executive Director). The Directors'
biographical details are set out on page 8. The Board currently considers that the breadth of experience of the Directors is sufficient to
provide effective leadership for the Company. Neither of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate Directors. The Chairman is responsible for the workings of the Board,
the Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and for the implementation of strategy and policy. The division of their
responsibilities is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
The Board meets at least six times per year, and has a formal list of matters specifically reserved for it, including overall Group
strategy, approval of annual budgets and monitoring achievement of those budgets, approval of major capital expenditure projects
and monitoring exposure to key business risks. The Board is responsible for monitoring the achievement of its business objectives and
maintaining a system of effective corporate governance, which includes the review of health, safety, environment, social and ethical
matters. The Board delegates day to day and business management control to the Executive Directors. Directors have access to
independent professional advice, if necessary at the Company's expense, and to advice and services from the Company Secretary
whose appointment is a Board matter. The Board receives sufficient information in advance to enable it to discharge its duties.
Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all Directors and Officers of the Company.
All Directors offer themselves for re-election at the first opportunity after their initial appointment, and at least once every three
years thereafter. Non-Executive Directors are appointed on fixed term contracts, normally for three years, with no automatic 
re-appointment. There is a formal induction process available to Directors. Directors may take additional training where necessary as
part of their continuing development at the expense of the Company.
Certain duties are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has clear terms of reference. The
terms of reference of the Committees have been reviewed following publication of the new Code and are available, on request, from
the Registered Office of the Company.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the
Chairman, Executive Directors, and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving. Once approved, the
Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluation of the performance and determining specific remuneration packages for each
executive Director. Further details of the Remuneration Committee's duties and operating framework are provided in the Report on
Directors' Remuneration.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying and
recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise. In considering an appointment the
Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role
and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the time commitment required from the non-executive Directors
annually. The Nomination Committee has been newly constituted, and has not as yet met.
Statement on Corporate Governance Jarvis Porter Group PLC   Annual Report 2004  13
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of external financial reporting. This
includes reviewing the Company's financial statements, preliminary announcements and any formal announcements relating to
financial performance, or other statements containing financial information, before submission to the Board for endorsement.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the
external auditors and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness. The Committee reviews annually the
independence and objectivity of the external auditors taking into account the non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year and there was full attendance at all meetings. Only Committee members are entitled
to attend a meeting. However the Finance Director and Deloitte and Touche LLP are normally invited to attend. Others are also
invited to attend as appropriate. A section of at least one meeting annually will take place without management present.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board considers dialogue with both its institutional and private investors an important aspect in the Company's development.To
ensure that the Board, particularly the non-executive Directors, understands the views of major shareholders, the Company's brokers
will provide summary feedback from any meetings following the announcement of the interim and final results. The Board will also be
regularly provided with summaries of analysts' views on the Company. In addition the Chairman will attend analyst briefings following
results announcements and will be available to meet with institutional shareholders.
The Company notifies shareholders of the Annual General Meeting at least twenty working days before the meeting, and separate
resolutions are put forward on each substantially separate issue, including the approval of the report and accounts. Details of all
proxies lodged on each resolution are announced after the show of hands on the resolution. Directors and chairs of committees are
introduced at the meeting and are available to answer questions, before, during and after the meeting.
Financial Reporting
The Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and prospects in its annual report
and accounts, interim report and other significant information releases.
Internal Control
The Group's system of internal control incorporates a risk management policy for identifying, evaluating and managing significant
risks faced by the Group. The policy is a continuing process which was effective since the acquisition of Darby Group Plc and up to the
date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and is embedded into day to day operating procedures and governance processes
wherever possible to enhance control over individual business units.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In doing so, the Board has
considered information generated from its control procedures, risk management policy and the Group's external auditors. The Board
has also taken account of any material developments since 28 February 2004. Any system can only manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to meet business objectives. Therefore, the system can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance that the
Group's assets are protected from material misstatement or loss, and that proper financial records are maintained.
The key control procedures operating within the Group include but are not limited to;
n A comprehensive system of budgeting and forecasting, with a detailed periodic review of actual results compared to budgets
and previous years.
n Procedures for the appraisal, review and authorisation of capital expenditure.
n Treasury procedures and banking arrangements.
n Financial controls and procedures to be adopted by operational managers.
n Monitoring and assessment of business risk and performance for each trading location via periodic review, with random audit of
working practices and controls.
n Secure storage and back up of data held on computer systems.
The Directors have put in place an organisational structure appropriate for the size of the Group with defined lines of responsibility
and delegation of authority where the Board considers it necessary.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, and concluded that there is no requirement for such a function
at present. 14 Jarvis Porter Group PLC   Annual Report 2004
Statement of Directors Responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and of the Group for that period. In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to:
n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
n make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
n state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The report of the auditors regarding their responsibilities is shown on page 17.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the accounts.
Statement on Corporate Governance Continued