 24
Annual report and financial statements 2005 Jessops plc
Corporate governance
Sound governance is central to achieving the Directors'
prime objective of maximising shareholder value. Principally,
it comprises the processes by which the Group is directed
and managed, risks are identified and controlled and
effective accountability is assured. 
Combined Code
The Board has made significant progress in implementing the recom-
mendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and
believes that there are no significant provisions of the Combined Code
which remain unfulfilled or are currently being worked on. During the
course of the year, a considerable amount of work has been done to
further improve the compliance with individual provisions including:
  Appointment of a Senior Independent Director allowing the
Chairman to resign from the Remuneration and Audit Committees;
  Independent external review of the performance of the Board
and its sub-committees;
  Review and amendment of committee terms of reference and
matters reserved for the Board;
  Review of procedures and documentation against the requirements
of the Combined Code;
  Establishing a process to comply with new EU market abuse
regulations;
  Improving the investor relations web-site.
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice 
In the following respects the Company has not, during the financial
year ended 30 September 2005, complied with Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance:
  On the 10 May 2005 the Company appointed Robin Whitbread
as the Senior Independent Director. Prior to this date the Company
had a Non-executive Chairman and only one Non-executive
Director and was not compliant with this provision of the Code;
  Until 20 September 2005, the Audit and Remuneration committees
were not wholly comprised of independent Non-executive Directors.
During the year the Chairman, who is not considered to be
independent for the purposes of the Combined Code, was a
member of the Audit and Remuneration Committee. This was
because there was only one independent Non-executive Director
and on appointment of another Non-executive Director a handover
period was required.
During the year, the Group was only partially compliant with
Section C3.4 as the Company's whistle blowing procedures covered
staff theft only. In 2005 a review was initiated to ensure that the
policy will be fully compliant. Once implemented the full policy 
will be assessed by the Audit Committee on an ongoing basis.
The following paragraphs give details of how the Group's
corporate governance procedures have operated during the year. 
Board of Directors 
During the year the Board of Directors has consisted of the
following directors: 
Director Role Status Date
Gavin Simonds Company Non-executive Appointed 28
Chairman Chairman October 2004
Derek Hine Chief  Executive
Executive Director
Director Role Status Date
John Crabtree Group Finance Executive
Director Director
William Rollason Chairman of Non-executive Appointed 28
Audit Director October 2004
Committee
Robin WhitbreadSenior Non-executiveAppointed
Independent Director 10 May 2005
Director and
Chairman of 
Remuneration
Committee
Tim Brookes Company Non-executive Resigned 28
Chairman Chairman October 2004
Dominic Collier - Non-executive Resigned 28
Director October 2004
Simon Tuttle - Non-executive Resigned 28
Director October 2004
The Executive Directors will seek re-election on a regular basis, 
and in any case within the maximum three year term, by rotation.
Details of the Chairman's other significant committments are
summarised on page two of this annual report and accounts.
Board meetings
The Board held thirteen meetings, one strategy day and the Annual
General Meeting during the year. Gavin Simonds, Derek Hine, John
Crabtree and William Rollason attended all meetings, strategy day and
the Annual General Meeting. Robin Whitbread attended all six board
meetings held following his appointment and attended the strategy day .
Matters Reserved for the Board 
These include:-
  approval of the Group's strategy and annual budget;
  overseeing of the Group's operations to ensure competent and
prudent management, sound planning, an adequate system of
internal control, appropriate accounting, keeping of records and
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations;
  approval of acquisitions and divestments, major capital projects,
investments and material contracts;
  annual review and approval of the overall levels of insurance for
the Group including Directors' and officers' liability insurance
and indemnification of Directors;
  approval of resolutions and corresponding documents put to
shareholders, press releases and announcements concerning
matters decided by the board;
  Board membership and remuneration policy for Directors and
other senior executives.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board may be viewed on
the corporate website at www.jessops.com.
Board evaluation
The independent evaluation of the Board and its sub-committees,
by Equity Culture Limited, took place during August 2005, assessing
Board procedures and effectiveness. A key finding was the potential
benefit of appointing a third executive Director to bring additional
operational experience to the Board and post year end the Board 
has accepted the recommendation of the Nomination Committee 
to appoint Chris Langley as the third Executive Director. 25
Annual report and financial statements 2005 Jessops plc
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control systems are
designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board delegates to executive management the day to day
responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks
facing the Group's operations, and for implementing and maintaining
internal control systems that manage those risks in an efficient and
effective manner, appropriate to their nature and scale.
The key procedures in the Group's current risk management
process for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls are
summarised below:
  There is a clearly defined Group management responsibility and
reporting structure;
  The Group's objectives are reviewed as part of the strategic
planning process and communicated throughout the Group.
Objectives are set for individual stores and operating
departments as part of the strategy review process;
  Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of
the Group's annual strategic planning cycle;
  The Directors are required to approve yearly financial budgets,
including capital expenditure. Performance against these targets
is monitored monthly and reported on at the Board meetings.
Reasons for divergences are discussed at Board meetings;
  Senior managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation
of significant risks in their areas of business together with the
design and operation of suitable internal controls. These risks are
assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety
of internal and external sources including control breakdowns,
competition, safeguarding property, products and customers,
health, safety and environment, legal and regulatory requirements,
employees and suppliers;
  Matters relating to internal control brought to the attention of the
management by the auditors are reviewed and any corrective actions
to the internal control procedures are made in a timely manner;
  Written monthly reports, management accounts and key
performance indicators are submitted for stores and operating
departments and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered and
actions agreed at Board meetings; 
  Progress against action plans arising from weaknesses in internal
controls is monitored throughout the year.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control and this has
been measured against the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control,
published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England &
Wales in September 1999.
Nomination Committee Report
Nomination Committee Membership
The members of the Nomination Committee are Gavin Simonds
and the independent Non-executive Directors Robin Whitbread
and William Rollason. Gavin Simonds is the Nomination
Committee Chairman.
The Nomination Committee is required to meet at least twice per
year and did meet twice during the year to 30 September 2005.
Gavin Simonds and William Rollanson both attended two meetings
and Robin Whitbread attended the one meeting held after his
appointment.
Role of the Nomination Committee
The principal roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
  Keep under review the structure, size and composition of the
Board and its principal committees and to recommend changes
deemed necessary;
  Identify and nominate to the Board candidates for appointment
to the Board;
  Be responsible for succession planning for Board members;
  Make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or
otherwise of a Director upon the expiry of any specified terms 
of office.
The Nomination Committee's terms of reference may be found on
the Group website at www.jessops.com.
Activities of the Nomination Committee
The key activities of the Nomination Committee during the year
were the appointment of Robin Whitbread as Senior Independent
Director and Chris Langley as Chief Operating Officer. The Board
accepted the Nomination Committee's proposal and Robin
Whitbread joined the Board on 10 May 2005.
The Nomination Committee Chairman, Gavin Simonds attended
the Company's Annual General Meeting on 15 February 2005.
The Nomination Committee also made recommendations to the
Board concerning the appointment of some senior managers in
subsidiary companies and a new Company Secretary.
The Committee is satisfied that the Executive Director retiring by
rotation, John Crabtree, the Non-executive Director seeking re-
appointment, Robin Whitbread, and the Executive Director seeking
re-appointment, Chris Langley, at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting are qualified for re-appointment by virtue of skills, experience
and contribution to the Board, following formal performance
evaluation.
Using the results from the independent evaluation of the Board and
its sub-committees, undertaken in August 2005, the Nomination
Committee confirmed that the appointment of a third Executive
Director with considerable operational experience would provide 
a Board whose size, composition and balance of skills would be
more appropriate to the business of the Group. The Nomination
Committee's recommendation to appoint Chris Langley to the post
of third Executive Director was approved by the Board on 28 November
2005. Chris was appointed Executive Director on 30 November 2005.
The Nomination Committee also reviewed its own performance,
amended its terms of reference and made use of external advisors
in seeking candidates for senior posts during the year.
Corporate governance continued