 Jessops plc Report & Accounts 2006
26
Corporate governance
Sound governance is central to achieving the Directors' prime
objective of maximising shareholder value. Principally, it
comprises the processes by which the Group is directed and
managed, risks are identified and controlled and effective
accountability is assured. 
Combined Code
The Board has continued to futher develop and improve the compliance
associated with the individual provisions of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance and to build on the work done in recent years,
including:
  Independent external review of the performance of the Board, its
Directors and its sub-committees.
  Review of the committee terms of reference and the matters
reserved for the Board.
  Establishing a Whistleblowing Policy.
  Reviewing and updating the Group's Treasury Policy.
  Adopted the ICSA Code on Good Board Room Practice.
The following paragraphs give details of how the Group's corporate
governance procedures have operated during the year:
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice
In the following respects the Company has not, during the financial
year ened 30 September 2006, complied with Sections A3.2, B2.1
and C3.1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance:
  On the 03 July 2006, the Company appointed Robin Whitbread as an
Executive Director. Prior to this date, Robin had been a Non-executive
Director and was both Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and the Senior Independent Director. From this date the Company
had a Non-executive Chairman and only one Non-executive
Director and was not compliant with this provision of the Code;
  From 03 July 2006, the Audit and Remuneration Committees were
not wholly comprised of independent Non-executive Directors.
From this date to 30 September 2006, the Chairman, who is not
considered to be independent for the purposes of the Combined
Code, was a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
This was because there was only one independent Non-executive
Director during that period. 
The following paragraphs give details of how the Group's corporate
governance procedures have operated during the year:
Board of Directors
During the year, the Board of Directors has consisted of the following
Directors:
Director Role Status Date
Gavin Simonds Company Non-executive
Chairman Chairman
Derek Hine Chief  Executive Retired
Executive Director 17 May 2006
Chris Langley Chief Operating Executive Appointed 30 
Officer Director November 2005
Chris Langley Chief  Executive Appointed
Executive Director 17 May 2006
Director Role Status Date
John Crabtree Group Finance Executive
Director Director
Robin Whitbread Senior Non-executive Ceased to act as 
Independent Director Non-Executive
Director and Director 
Chairman of 3 July 2006
Remuneration
Committee
Robin WhitbreadCommercial Executive Appointed 
Director Director 3 July 2006
William Rollason Chairman of Non-executive Acting Chairman
Audit Director of Remuneration
Committee and Committee and
acting Chairman acting Senior
of Remuneration Independent
Committee and Director from
acting Senior 3 July 2006
Independent
Director
Post year end, John Crabtree resigned on retirement on 30 November
2006 and was replaced as Group Finance Director by Ian Harris, who
had been appointed to the Board as Finance Director Designate on
30 October 2006.
The Executive Directors will seek re-election on a regular basis, and
in any case within the maximum three year term, by rotation. Details
of the Chairman's other significant committments are summarised
on page 2 of this annual report and accounts.
Board meetings
The Board held 14 Board meetings, an Annual General Meeting
(AGM) and an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) during the
year. Board attendance is summarised below in the following table:
Director No. of Board AGM Attended EGM Attended
Meetings
Attended
JN Crabtree 14 Yes Yes
D Hine 8 Yes -
C Langley 13 Yes Yes
W Rollason 13 Yes Yes
G Simonds 14 Yes Yes
R Whitbread 14 Yes Yes
The EGM was held after Derek Hine retired on 6 June 2006. The
resolutions requested members to approve (i) the Jessops plc 2006
Long-Term Incentive Plan and (ii) the Jessops plc Share Incentive
Plan. Both resolutions were approved by the members.
A Board Strategy Day was held immediately after the financial year
end in October 2006.
Matters Reserved for the Board
The Company maintains a Schedule of Matters Reserved for the
Board which is communicated on an annual basis to the boards of
subsidiary companies.  Jessops plc Report & Accounts 2006
27
Matters reserved for the Board include:
  Approval of the Group's strategy and annual budget;
  Overseeing the Group's operations to ensure competent and
prudent management, sound planning, an adequate system of
internal control, appropriate accounting, keeping of records and
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations;
  Approval of acquisitions and divestments, major capital projects,
investments and material contracts;
  Annual review and approval of the overall levels of insurance for
the Group, including the Director's and officers' liability insurance
and indemnification;
  Annual review of resolutions and corresponding documents put
to shareholders, press releases and announcements concerning
matters to be decided by the Board;
  Board membership and remuneration policy for Directors and
other senior executives.
The Board reviewed the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board
during the year and no changes were recommended as a result of
that review.
The Company's Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board may be
viewed on the corporate website at www.jessops.com.
Board evaluation
An independent evaluation of the Board, its sub-committees and its
Directors was undertaken by Equity Culture Limited during September
2006. This evaluation assessed Board procedures and Board
effectiveness. The results of the evaluation concluded that the Board
and its members had provided the Group with leadership focused
on longer term strategy to ensure continuing success in a changing
competitive environment. The review recognised the need to appoint
an additional Non-executive Director but noted that this did not
appear to create an immediate impairment to the Board's ability 
to operate effectively in the short term.   
The Board considers its Non-executive Directors have been independent
pursuant to the criteria set out in the Combined Code for the duration
of their Non-executive Directorships during the year.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control systems are
designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board delegates to executive management the day to day
responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks
facing the Group's operations, and for implementing and maintaining
internal control systems that manage those risks in an efficient and
effective manner, appropriate to their nature and scale.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control and this has
been measured against the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control,
published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England &
Wales in September 1999.
The Group has a certificate of registration from the British
Standards Institute confirming that the business complies with the
requirements of BS EN ISO9001:2000 for its supply chain, inventory
management and after sales service.
Nomination Committee Report
Nomination Committee membership
The members of the Nomination Committee are Gavin Simonds and
William Rollason. Gavin Simonds is the Nomination Committee Chairman
and William Rollason is an independent Non-executive Director. 
Robin Whitbread was also a member of the Nomination Committee
until his appointment as an Executive Director on 3 July 2006. 
The Nomination Committee is required to meet at least twice per
year and met 7 times in the year to 30 September 2006. Gavin Simonds
attended all 7 meetings, William Rollason attended 6 and Robin Whitbread
attended 4 meetings prior to appointment as an Executive Director. 
Role of the Nomination Committee
The principal roles and responsibilities of the Nomination
Committee are to:
  Keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board
and its principal committees and to recommend changes thought
necessary;
  Identify and nominate to the Board candidates for appointment
to the Board;
  Be responsible for succession planning for Board members;
  Make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or
otherwise of a Director upon expiry of any specified terms of office.
The Nomination Committee's terms of reference may be found on
the Group website at www.jessops.com.
Activities of the Nomination Committee
The key activities of the Nomination Committee during the year included:
  appointment of the Chief Operating Officer to the Board.
  succession planning for the Chief Executive's role.
  appointment of a new Chief Executive.
  appointment of a Commercial Director to the Board.
  seeking a suitable replacement Non-executive Director. 
  succession planning for Group Finance Director's role.
  appointment of a Finance Director Designate.
  appointment of the Group Company Secretary.
Individuals were recommended by the Nomination Committee for
these posts on the basis of their having suitable skills and
experience to fulfill the roles described. 
The Board accepted the Nomination Committee's recommendations,
leading to the appointment of Chris Langley as an Executive Director on
30 November 2006 and his further appointment as Chief Executive on
17 May 2006. Robin Whitbread, formerly a Non-executive Director of the
Company, was appointed Commercial Director on 3 July 2006 and
Ian Harris Finance Director Designate on 30 October 2006. Nick Molyneux
was appointed Group Company Secretary on 30 November 2005. 
Although Robin Whitbread was member of the Nomination Committee
in his capacity as a Non-executive Director, he played no part in the
Nomination Committee deliberations which led the Nomination
Committee to recommend him for the post of Commercial Director.  
Using the results from the independent evaluation of the Board, its
sub-committees and its Directors, the Nomination Committee reviewed
the structure, size and composition of the Board and noted that a
third Non-executive Director was required to replace Robin Whitbread.
The Nomination Committee also reviewed its own performance and
its terms of reference. No changes to the terms of reference were
recommended.
The Nomination Committee Chairman, Gavin Simonds, attended
the Company's Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2006. 
The Nomination Committee is satisified that Gavin Simonds, the 
Non-executive Director seeking re-election, and Ian Harris, the Executive
Director seeking re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting, are both qualified for re-election and re-appointment respectively
by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
During the course of the year, the Nomination Committee has made use
of external advisers in seeking candidates for senior posts during the year.
The Nomination Committee continues to seek a suitable Non-executive
Director to act as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Corporate governance continued