 22 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance Overview
details of the matters the Board and its committees considered 
during the financial year. However, I would like to draw your 
attention to some specific areas.
Board role and effectiveness
The core purpose of the Board is to create and deliver the 
long-term success of the Company and long-term returns for 
shareholders. This requires the Board to set the Company's  
strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human 
resource structures are in place to achieve the Company's objectives, 
review management performance in delivering against strategy and 
set the Company's risk appetite. The Board ensures that the risk 
management measures and internal controls which are in place are 
appropriate and effective. The Board is aware of its obligations to  
the Company's shareholders and other stakeholders and responds 
to their needs by transparent reporting and active engagement.
Again, this year we have carried out an in-depth review of the 
Board's effectiveness and have produced an action plan to ensure 
constant improvement.
Changes to the Board
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the  
year. I succeeded Vladimir Kim as Chairman following his decision  
to step down at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on  
17 May 2013. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Vladimir 
for his excellent stewardship of the Company over the last seven 
years and I am delighted that he has decided to continue his 
involvement with Kazakhmys as a non-executive Director and  
as executive chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC. This will 
ensure the Group continues to benefit from his contributions and  
I will benefit from his advice as Kazakhmys moves towards the next 
stage in its development. Furthermore, as I was independent upon 
appointment as Chairman, Kazakhmys now complies fully with the 
provisions of the Code.
Philip Aiken and Daulet Yergozhin stood down from the Board in 
August and December 2013, respectively, and I would like to thank 
them for their committed services to the Board. During the year, 
Michael Lynch-Bell and Lynda Armstrong joined the Board. Michael 
brings considerable experience of the financial and global mining and 
energy sectors and Lynda's knowledge of the extractives industry 
and, particularly her experience in safety, technical and operational 
areas, will be invaluable in achieving the Group's objectives. The fresh 
insights and external perspectives that Michael and Lynda bring are 
complemented by the Company knowledge and understanding that 
our longer-serving Directors provide. I am confident that we not 
only have a Board focused on good governance but we have the 
right Board composition and that the Board works effectively, 
allowing us to respond to challenges as they arise. Further details  
on the Company's process to identify new members of the Board 
can be found on page 75. 
Diversity
The Company takes account of diversity when recruiting,  
including when considering Board appointments. However, whilst 
we see a significant business benefit in having a Board drawn from  
a diverse range of backgrounds who bring the required expertise, 
cultural diversity and different perspectives to Board discussions,  
we do not believe this is achieved through simple quotas, whether  
it be gender or otherwise, and will continue to appoint candidates 
based on merit and relevant experience in accordance with the 
requirements of the Code.
Committed to  


 
 
 
 
 

Simon Heale, Chairman
Dear fellow shareholder,
I am delighted to present this introduction to the Company's corporate 
governance policies and procedures in my first Annual Report and 
Accounts since my appointment as Chairman. I am fully committed 
to strong corporate governance and firmly believe in the benefits  
an effective Board can bring to an organisation. I believe it is our 
governance structures that underpin our ability to deliver our strategy.
The Board is currently reviewing the Financial Conduct Authority's 
(FCA) proposals on  Enhancing the Effectiveness of the Listing 
Regime', which include changes to the Listing Rules for premium 
listed companies with a controlling shareholder. The final rules are 
expected to be implemented in mid-2014 at the earliest and details 
of any changes to Kazakhmys' corporate governance will be set out 
in next year's annual report and accounts.
In September 2012, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) published 
a revised edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the  Code') 
which applies to Kazakhmys for the financial year ended 31 December 
2013. The Board has reviewed the provisions of the Code and 
considered how best it can comply with all of the recommendations  
to ensure the effective operation of its business. The Company's 
policies on corporate direction and control ensure that the Company 
applies all of the principles of good governance contained in the  
Code to the organisational structure it has adopted for conducting  
its business, reviewing its remuneration policy, maintaining its relations 
with its shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in its financial 
reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
The Governance Framework report set out on pages 60 to 75 
explains in detail how the Company has applied the principles and 
complied with the provisions of the Code and also provides further    www.kazakhmys.com 23
Strategic Report
For more information see pages
60 Governance Framework
67 Board Committees
The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that  
foster talent and encourage all employees to achieve their full career 
potential in the Company. As part of our overall approach to human 
resource management we encourage employee diversity and aim  
to ensure that Kazakhmys' future senior leadership team reflects  
the demographics of the countries in which we operate and the 
general employee base.
The Board consists of Directors with a wide range of skills  
and business experience drawn from a number of industries,  
which is critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to 
enable different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions. 
Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of nationalities, which 
brings cultural diversity as well as different geographical experiences 
and viewpoints. The combination of these factors mean that the 
Board benefits from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives 
and thoughts, which provides a dynamic environment for  
decision-making.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system  
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of this system. We have therefore adopted a 
risk-based approach in establishing this system. The Group, in the 
course of its business activities, is exposed to strategic, financial, 
operational and compliance risks. Overall management of these  
risks lies with the Board, with the Audit Committee having delegated 
authority for reviewing the Group's risk management framework. 
More detailed information on the Group's system of internal control 
and risk management can be found in the Governance Framework 
report on pages 66 and 67 and the Risk Management Overview 
section on pages 18 and 19.
Accountability
The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts,  
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the 
Company's performance, business model and strategy, and that  
the business continues to operate as a going concern.
Shareholder engagement
Engaging with shareholders is one of the key aspects of good 
corporate governance. Throughout the year the Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer and I, supported by the Group's corporate 
communications team, regularly met with institutional shareholders 
Michael Lynch-Bell
Chairman
Audit Committee 
 
See page 68
Group Health, Safety and 
Environment Committee 
See page 72
Nomination Committee 
 
See page 73
Remuneration Committee 
 
See page 76
Charles Watson
Chairman
Simon Heale
Chairman
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG
Chairman
Board committees 
and analysts. The Board also receives regular reports from the 
Corporate Communications department on its activities and,  
in particular, on shareholder sentiment and feedback. 
The Board continues to believe that ongoing engagement with 
shareholders and other stakeholders is vital to ensuring their  
views and perspectives are fully understood. This will remain  
a key focus for us in 2014.
As well as the annual general meeting held on 17 May 2013, 
Kazakhmys convened two further General Meetings on 2 August 
2013 and 7 January 2014 to request shareholder approval of two 
important transactions that would assist the Company in its strategy 
to focus on its core copper business. At both General Meetings, 
members of the Board who were present made themselves 
available to discuss the proposed transactions with shareholders.  
We received strong shareholder approval in respect of both of 
these transactions and are grateful for your support as we take 
Kazakhmys forward.
At the Company's forthcoming Annual General Meeting all 
Directors who are able to attend will be available, as usual, to  
meet with shareholders after the meeting to discuss any issues  
they may have. I encourage as many shareholders as possible to 
attend the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2014.
Committee framework
Kazakhmys has a structured and established corporate governance 
framework in place which is committed to the Board's aim of 
achieving long-term and sustainable shareholder value. As a Board, 
we believe that for a framework to work well, constant evaluation is 
required to ensure that the overall aims are stretching but achievable. 
The Board has four principal committees to deal with specific 
aspects of the Group's affairs: the Audit Committee; Group Health, 
Safety and Environment Committee; Remuneration Committee;  
and Nomination Committee. Detailed information on the roles  
and responsibilities, and the activities undertaken during the year  
by each committee are set out in their respective sections as 
referred to below.
I look forward to leading the Board through this period of  
transition and to continue to develop and strengthen our  
corporate governance to meet the challenges ahead.
Simon Heale
Chairman