 22 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Committed to  
good governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance  
in its management of the affairs of the Group and in its accountability  
to shareholders. It is the responsibility of the Board to demonstrate  
leadership and effectiveness and be accountable to its shareholders  
and other stakeholders.
Summary Corporate Governance
The last few years have seen a number  
of reviews and consultations aimed at 
examining and improving corporate 
governance practices. Following its review  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
during the year, the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) published a revised edition  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the  New Code') in September 2012  
which applies to companies with a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange with 
accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 October 2012, which for Kazakhmys is  
the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
The Company is currently reviewing the 
provisions of the New Code and considering 
how best it can comply with all of the 
recommendations to ensure the continued 
successful operation of its business. 
Although the Governance Framework 
report set out on pages 50 to 63 has  
been prepared in accordance with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code issued  
by the FRC in June 2010 (the  Code') which 
applies to the Company's Annual Report and 
Accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2012, the Company has taken steps to adopt 
some of the provisions of the New Code 
earlier than formally required.
The Company's policies on corporate 
direction and control ensure that the 
Company applies all of the principles of  
good governance contained in the Code to 
the organisational structure it has adopted  
to conduct its business, its remuneration 
policy, its relations with its shareholders,  
and the procedures adhered to in its  
financial reporting, internal control and 
assurance processes.
The Governance Framework report set out 
on pages 50 to 63 explains in detail how  
the Company has applied the principles  
and complied with the provisions of the 
Code, the steps it has taken to adopt some 
of the provisions of the New Code and also 
provides further details of the matters the 
Board and its committees considered during 
the financial year. However, I would like to 
draw your particular attention to some 
specific points.
Board role and effectiveness
The core purpose of the Board is to  
create and deliver the long-term success  
of the Company and long-term returns  
for shareholders. This requires the Board  
to set the Company's strategic aims,  
ensure that the necessary financial and 
human resources are in place to achieve the 
Company's objectives, review management 
performance in delivering against strategy  
and set the Company's risk appetite.  
The Board needs to ensure that the risk 
management measures and internal controls 
that are put in place are appropriate and 
effective. Finally, the Board must remain 
aware of its obligations to the Company's 
shareholders and other stakeholders and 
respond to their needs with transparent 
reporting and active engagement.
The role of the Chairman in determining the 
effectiveness of the Board is vital. The Chairman 
continues to provide entrepreneurial leadership 
to the Board, while ensuring that sound 
effective corporate governance practices  
are embedded in the organisation and its 
decision-making processes. He sets the 
Board's focus and establishes an environment  
of collaborative, but robust discussion, 
encouraging challenge and contributions 
from all Directors.
The Board has four principal committees  
to deal with specific aspects of the Group's 
affairs. Detailed information on the roles and 
responsibilities, and the activities undertaken 
during the year by each committee are set 
out in their respective sections as referred 
to on page 23.
New Chairman
Having put in place the listing on the  
London Stock Exchange, the funding of  
our growth projects and the start of their 
development, our current Chairman, 
Vladimir Kim, announced at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2012 that he felt it 
was the right time to hand on the role to a 
new, independent non-executive Chairman 
which would bring the Company fully into 
line with the provisions of the Code. He will 
remain on the Board as a non-independent 
non-executive Director and continue  
to be closely involved with the Company.
The process to identify a new Chairman  
was led by myself, as Senior Independent 
Director. A formal, rigorous and transparent 
search process was put in place with a 
candidate profile and position specification 
prepared and an executive search consultant, 
Spencer Stuart, appointed to assist with the 
process. In accordance with best practice, 
Vladimir Kim was not involved in the process 
to recruit his successor. 
A number of candidates, both external and 
internal, were considered for the role and  
it was agreed that Simon Heale met the 
specification of the role, possessing all the 
necessary skills, experience, knowledge  
and independence. As announced on   23 www.kazakhmys.com
Detailed Information Financial Statements Strategic Report: Summary Corporate Governance
28 February 2013, Simon Heale will assume 
the role of Chairman following the conclusion 
of the Company's Annual General Meeting 
on 17 May 2013. More detailed information 
on the process to identify the new Chairman 
is set out in the Nomination Committee 
section of the Governance Framework 
report on page 63. 
Diversity
Following the publication of the Davies 
Report on the representation of women  
on plc boards, our Nomination Committee 
discussed its recommendations. The 
Company takes account of diversity when 
recruiting, including when we consider our 
Board appointments, and will continue to  
do so in the future. However, whilst we  
see a significant business benefit in having  
a Board drawn from a diverse range of 
backgrounds who bring the required 
expertise, cultural diversity and different 
perspectives to Board discussions, we do  
not believe this is achieved through simple 
quotas, whether it be gender or otherwise, 
and will continue to appoint candidates 
based on merit and relevant experience 
in accordance with the requirements  
of the Code.
The Board recognises the need to create the 
conditions that foster talent and encourage 
more women to achieve their full potential  
in their careers in the Company. As part of  
our overall approach to human resource 
management we encourage employee 
diversity and aim to ensure that Kazakhmys' 
future senior leadership team reflects the 
demographics of the countries in which we 
operate and the general employee base.
The Board consists of Directors of different 
ages with a wide range of skills and business 
experience drawn from a number of 
industries, which is critical for bringing  
both the expertise required, and to enable 
different perspectives to be brought to 
Board discussions. Furthermore, the Board 
comprises a range of nationalities, which 
brings cultural diversity as well as different 
geographical experiences and viewpoints. 
The combination of these factors means  
that the Board benefits from a diverse  
range of competencies, perspectives  
and thoughts, which provides a dynamic 
environment for decision making.
The Nomination Committee regularly 
reviews the composition of the Board, its 
committees and the succession planning  
of the non-executive Directors in respect  
of skills, knowledge, experience and general 
diversity, including gender.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for  
the Group's system of internal control and 
risk management and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of this system. The Board has 
adopted a risk-based approach in establishing 
the Group's system of internal control and  
in reviewing its effectiveness. The Group,  
in the course of its business activities, is 
exposed to strategic, financial, operational 
and compliance risks. Overall management 
of these risks is vested in the Board, with the 
Audit Committee having delegated authority 
for reviewing the Group's risk management 
framework. More detailed information  
on the Group's system of internal control 
and risk management can be found in  
the Governance Framework report on  
pages 56 to 57 and the Summary Risk 
Management section on pages 16 and 17.
Shareholder engagement
Engaging with shareholders is one of the  
key aspects of corporate governance.  
During the year the Chairman, Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial Officer and I, 
supported by the Group's corporate 
communications team, have regularly met 
with institutional shareholders and analysts. 
The Board also receives regular reports 
from the Corporate Communications 
department on its activities and, in particular, 
on shareholder sentiment and feedback.  
The Board continues to believe that ongoing 
engagement with shareholders and other 
stakeholders is vital to ensuring their views  
and perspectives are fully understood. This  
will remain a key focus for the Board in 2013.
At the Company's forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting all Directors who are able  
to attend will be available, as usual, to meet 
with shareholders after the meeting to 
discuss any issues they may have. I encourage 
as many shareholders as possible to attend  
the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2013.
Philip Aiken
Senior Independent Director
For more information see pages
50 Governance Framework
58 Board committees
Board committees
Audit Committee
See page 59 
Simon Heale
Chairman, Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
See page 62
Vladimir Kim
Chairman, Nomination 
Committee
GHSE Committee
See page 61 
Philip Aiken
Chairman, Group Health, 
Safety and Environment 
Committee
Remuneration Committee
See page 64
Lord Renwick of  
Clifton, KCMG
Chairman, Remuneration 
Committee Committee ommittee