 26 | Kleeneze Annual Report 2005
The Board has made significant progress in implementing the recommendations of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance. 
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions at this year's AGM to be held 
on 28th September 2005.
The Board
The Board of Kleeneze plc currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and three non-executive directors as follows:
Name Title
Sir Clive Thompson Chairman
William Rollason Chief Executive
Chris Hulland Finance Director and Company Secretary
Nicholas Gilodi-Johnson Executive Director
Paul Munn Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Neil Gillis Independent Non-executive Director
Stephen Roberts Non-executive Director
Biographies for all directors in office at 28th April 2005 are set out on page 19.
The Board has delegated certain matters to standing committees details of which are given below. Responsibility for the management of each
subsidiary rests with subsidiary Board directors, however the Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its
decision. These include the approval of Group budgets, forecasts, financial results, interim dividends, final dividend recommendation, major
capital expenditure proposals, acquisitions and disposals. Procedures have also been established to allow all members of the Board to make
contact with and discuss matters affecting the Group with its external auditors and its legal advisers.
The Board as a whole is responsible for the Group's risk assessment and systems of internal control in order to safeguard shareholders'
investment and the assets of the Group.
Board evaluation 
The Board has instituted a formal procedure for the annual evaluation of Board members in their capacity as directors of the Company and 
as members of the committees of the Board. The results of this evaluation have been communicated with each director. The evaluation was
conducted on 31st March 2005.
Board meetings 
All directors have access to the Company Secretary's advice and services. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Company Secretary also ensures that the directors
receive appropriate training as necessary.
During the year the Board met every month with the exception of August 2004. All directors attended every meeting during their term of office
with the exception of Stephen Roberts who did not attend the meeting held on 27th April 2005 as he was overseas. The Audit Committee met
on 1st July 2004 and 8th December 2004 and the Remuneration Committee on 26th May 2004 and 23rd February 2005. All committee
members attended every meeting during their term of office.
Board Committees
There are currently four sub-committees of the Board: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and 
the Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee. The role and function of the committees is as follows:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Paul Munn (Chairman) and Neil Gillis, and meets not less than twice annually. The executive and non-executive
directors also attend meetings by invitation. The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. The Committee
also reviews the requirement for an internal audit function and has, so far, concluded that this is not necessary in view of the size and structure
of the Group.
The Audit Committee's terms of reference include the approval of interim and final financial statements, review of accounting policies and the
monitoring of the Group's internal controls. The Committee's terms of reference also include keeping under review the scope and results of the
audit and its cost effectiveness, the auditors' independence and objectivity and reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services provided
by the auditors (seeking always to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money).
Remuneration Committee
The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out on pages 20 to 23. It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to set the remuneration levels
and performance-related incentives for the executive directors and various senior managers in the Group and oversee the Group's share option
schemes. The members of this Committee are Neil Gillis (Chairman) and Paul Munn.
Nomination Committee
This Committee is responsible for recommending Board appointments having regard to the balance and structure of the Board. Where appropriate
external search consultants are used to assist in this process. The members of this Committee are Sir Clive Thompson (Chairman), Neil Gillis and
Paul Munn. All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Corporate Governance Statement
For the year ended 28th April 2005 Kleeneze Annual Report 2005 | 27 Kleeneze Annual Report 2005 | 27
Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee
The Committee is responsible for recommending the fees and other benefits of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman. 
Its members are Sir Clive Thompson, William Rollason and Chris Hulland.
Communications with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Finance Review on pages 16 and 17 includes a detailed review of the business
and future developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Group's preliminary
announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. Details of resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM on 28th September 2005 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting on pages 59 and 60.
Internal control
The directors are responsible for the Group's systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard shareholders' investment and the
assets of the Group. The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the system of controls and reports its findings to the Board. These
control systems cover the safeguarding of assets, maintenance of proper accounting records and reliability of financial information used by 
the business. Such procedures can only be relied upon to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or frauds.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The process has been in place for the full year under review and up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The major aspects of the Group's internal control systems are summarised below:
Control environment
The Group consists of four main operating subsidiaries, each with its own management and control procedures. The Chief Executive is actively
involved in the management of all Group businesses and the implementation of their internal controls. Meetings are regularly held with
operational management during which trading results are reviewed, business risks are assessed and procedures are set in place to minimise
or control those risks. Formal reviews are carried out monthly. 
Procedures exist to ensure the approval of significant financial commitments and expenses by appropriate executive personnel. 
Risk assessment
There is a re-assessment of business risks on an annual basis. This is carried out by the operational management and reviewed by 
the Board. The Audit Committee reviews the way in which the assessment has been carried out and reviewed in order to ensure that the
procedure will allow for the identification of all major risks. These reports cover the key risks which impact upon the trading performance 
of each business. Additional internal reports are prepared as required by the operational management and are reviewed by the executive
directors and senior executives. 
Management information
An annual budget is prepared by the operational management before the start of each financial year. This is reviewed by the Board to ensure
that it adheres to the Group's overall strategy and that it is robust in its preparation. Detailed monthly accounts are compared against forecast
results with projections for the financial year being made quarterly or more frequently if necessary. Major variances from the forecast are
analysed promptly and remedial action taken where appropriate. 
Analyses of sales and cash movements are reviewed weekly by the executive directors.
Key performance indicators are produced monthly by each operating unit and are used to assess the achievement of business objectives.
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice
In the following respects the Company has not, throughout the whole of the financial year ended 28th April 2005, complied with Section 1 
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance:
  There is no letter of appointment for Stephen Roberts in respect of his services as a director.
  As set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee has used the committee members' wide knowledge of
current good practice relating to directors' remuneration. 
  Until 27th October 2004 the Audit and the Remuneration Committees were not wholly comprised of independent non-executive directors 
as Sir Clive Thompson and Stephen Roberts were members and, under the provisions of the Combined Code, are not considered to be
independent for the purposes of the Combined Code. With effect from 27th October 2004 the Committees became compliant upon the
resignation of Sir Clive Thompson and Stephen Roberts from membership.
  On 27th October 2004 the Company appointed Paul Munn as the senior independent non-executive director. The Company was not compliant
with this provision of the Code prior to this date.