 Compliance
The Board supports the highest standards of corporate
governance and has considered the principles and provisions
of the Combined Code (The Code ) as set out in the
Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules. The following
statement sets out the company's application of the principles
of the Code and the extent of compliance with the Code's
provisions, made in accordance with the requirements of 
the Listing Rules.
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions
set out in the Combined Code during the period under review
with the exception of the matters set out below.   
Non-executive directors
During the year the company has not complied with the code
provision A.3.1. which requires non-executive directors to
comprise not less than one third of the Board. Mr R A R Garfit
retired as a non-executive director at the Annual General
Meeting on the 8 May 2002 and Mr B Arora was appointed
as an Executive Director on 10 May 2002. This resulted in
a Board consisting of seven members, two of whom are
non-executive directors but the Board considers that the
experience and professional expertise brought by these two
directors has been sufficient to meet the needs of the group.
Code provision B.2.2. states that the Remuneration
Committee should consist of non-executive directors but as
stated last year Mr G T Hogarth, the chief executive had been
invited to serve on the committee with the two non-executive
directors and continues to do so. Mr G T Hogarth's salary is
independently reviewed by the two non-executive directors. 
Code provision D.3.1. states that the Audit Committee should
consist of at least three non-executive directors and following
Mr R A R Garfit's retirement on the 8 May 2002, there were
only two non-executive directors available to serve on the
committee.
The Board of directors
The Board, two of whom are independent non-executive
directors, exercises full and effective control over the activities
of the group through regular Board meetings. A total of nine
full Board meetings were held during the year, with additional
sub committee meetings to address specific points. The Board
is responsible for the overall direction of the group and for
securing performance from group assets. 
Each director has received written terms of reference in
respect of their responsibilities and written terms of reference
are set out in relation to all Board committees. Appropriate
training is provided to directors both on appointment and 
on a continuing development basis. 
All directors have direct access to the advice and services of
the company secretary and are able, if necessary, to seek
independent advice on any matter and an agreed procedure 
is in place to facilitate this.
Board balance and supply of information
The positions of non-executive chairman and chief executive
are held by separate Board members. The Board considers
that the two non-executive directors who have served
throughout the year are of sufficient calibre and are
independent from management. The senior independent 
non-executive director is Ms K E Swann.
Board members are kept appraised of the actions of the
executive management and are circulated with relevant papers
and proposals prior to Board meetings. All directors participate
in meetings and are able to bring their independent
judgement to bear on the decision making process in the
areas of strategy, performance, resources, standards of
conduct and in those matters specifically reserved for the
Board, a schedule of which is available throughout 
the organisation.   
Appointments to the Board, remuneration 
and re-election
The Remuneration Committee, which met formally once
during the year and again just after the year end to agree 
the 2002 bonus payments, is responsible for making
recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy for all
executive directors and senior executives, including salaries,
incentive payments and share options and continues to
appraise remuneration packages against those of other
comparable companies on an ongoing basis.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of
up to three years. Nomination for re-election is a matter for
the Board as a whole having regard to the changing needs 
of the business.
Directors' remuneration 
All Code provisions relating to remuneration of the directors
are dealt with in the Remuneration report on pages 18 to 21.
Relations with shareholders
The chief executive and finance director normally meet with
substantial institutional investors at least twice a year and the
group encourages attendance and participation at the Annual
General Meeting by small shareholders.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, chaired by an independent non-
executive director, makes recommendations to the Board 
in respect of the group's financial statements, internal 
controls and key accounting policies and judgements. 
The committee reviews the findings of the external auditors 
and makes recommendations on the appointment and
remuneration of the auditors. The committee reviews the
nature and extent of any non-audit work undertaken by 
the external auditors.  
22 Lambert Howarth Group p.l.c.
Corporate governance Internal controls 
The company has established an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the company in accordance with the guidance set
out in the Turnbull Report.
The Board is responsible for the group's systems of internal
controls and through the delegated responsibilities of the Audit
Committee has undertaken a review of the effectiveness of the
internal controls for the year, reporting back to the Board its
findings in relation to the main control mechanisms in place.
Whilst the Board are happy to confirm that the review had 
not established any significant weaknesses in internal 
controls that had resulted in financial losses, contingencies or
uncertainties, such a system can only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The group's control environment is the responsibility of the
group's directors and managers at all levels. The group's
organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility.
Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary companies
is delegated to local boards. The Board has communicated
ethical and operating policies to all personnel, which are
supported by written procedures and appropriate training. 
A code of ethics has been established and published.
The risks facing each of the group's business activities are
kept under regular review and assessment. All subsidiaries are
required to regularly assess key risks and related control and
monitoring procedures. The Board monitors this process.
Local management is responsible for control procedures in
relation to each of the key risks identified and reporting on 
the effectiveness of those controls. Local management reports
whether its key controls have functioned effectively. Standard
financial control procedures operate throughout the group to
ensure the integrity of the group's financial statements. The
Board has established procedures for the authorisation of
capital expenditure including lease commitments. 
Corporate governance procedures were reviewed at every
Board meeting throughout the year.
Internal audit
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit
function and has concluded that this is not a requirement 
at this stage. The Board will continue to review this decision 
on an annual basis.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the group and the company have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the group's financial
statements.
Statement of directors' responsibilities 
The directors are required by UK company law to prepare
financial statements for each financial year that give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the
group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and
loss of the group for that year.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have
been used and applied consistently and reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the
preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2002. The directors also confirm that
applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time,
the financial position of the company and the group and to
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the company and of the group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company's report and accounts will be published on the
Company's website and in this regard the directors accept
responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the website
and any uncertainty arising as a result of the report and
accounts being available via the web in different legal 
and accounting jurisdictions.
On behalf of the Board
K E Swann
Chairperson of the Audit Committee
11 March 2003
Annual report and accounts 2002 23
Corporate governance (continued)