 Lansdowne Oil & Gas plc
10
Corporate Governance
Lansdowne, as an AIM listed Company, is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance (the Code ) published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in May 2010. However, the Board recognises the importance of sound corporate governance and has ensured 
that, following Admission, the Group adopted policies and procedures which reflect such of the Principles of Good Governance and 
the Code of Best Practice as are appropriate to the Group's size. The main departure from the Code arises because the Non-Executive 
Directors are all shareholders of the Company and therefore cannot be considered independent in terms of the Code.
Directors
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and three further Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of the 
Directors are presented on page 6. John Greenall is the senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman.
Board Meeting attendance record
2010
Eligible
2010
Attended
2009
Eligible
2009
Attended
S A R Boldy 17 17 9 9
C G Moar 17 17 9 9
J Greenall 17 12 9 9
T Torrington 17 12 9 8
S R Bertram 17 16 9 8
S G Lampe 17 15 9 9
E Brown 17 17 9 9
T Anderson (resigned 9 November 2010) 13993
Relationship with former Parent Company 
Three of the Directors of the Company, C G Moar, S G Lampe and S R Bertram are also Directors of the Company's former parent 
Company, SeaEnergy PLC. SeaEnergy PLC remains a major shareholder. Under a Relationship Agreement dated April 2006 SeaEnergy 
PLC has undertaken that the relevant members of the SeaEnergy Group will exercise their voting rights so as to ensure (so far as they are 
able by the exercise of such rights) the continued independence from SeaEnergy PLC of the majority of the Board, that any transactions 
between persons or companies controlled by SeaEnergy PLC (to the extent that there are any such transactions in the future) will be 
at arms' length, and that they will not vote (as shareholder or Director) in relation to any such transaction. SeaEnergy PLC has also 
undertaken that neither it nor any member of the SeaEnergy Group shall, for so long as SeaEnergy PLC has a controlling interest in the 
Company, compete with the Group in the sector and geographic area in which the Group operates. 
The Board is responsible for setting overall Group strategy, policy, monitoring Group performance and authorising significant transactions.
The Board meets not less than four times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision. All Directors have full 
and timely access to information and may take independent professional advice at the Group's expense.
The Board has two standing committees with terms of reference as follows:
Audit and Remuneration Committees
These committees comprise solely of Non-Executive Directors who take no part in the discussion of their own remuneration. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises John Greenall (Chairman), Steven Bertram and Viscount Torrington (T Anderson also served until 9 
November 2010 when he was replaced by Viscount Torrington), it determines the terms of engagement of the Group's Auditors and in 
consultation with the Auditors, the scope of the audit. The Audit Committee receives and reviews reports from management and the 
Group's Auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts and the accounting and internal control systems in the Group. The Audit 
Committee has unrestricted access to, and oversees, the relationship with the Group's Auditors. The Audit Committee meets at least 
twice a year and meets with the Group's Auditors at least once a year. Other Directors may attend by invitation.
The External Auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements. They review and test the systems of internal 
financial control and data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion. They discuss with 
management the reporting of operational results and the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the  
Audit Committee. Lansdowne Oil & Gas plc
11
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors. The Committee reviews the nature and amount 
of non-audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP each year to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their independence. Details of this 
year's fees are given in note 16 on page 36. The Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP are independent.
The Group does not have an internal audit function but the need for such a function is reviewed at least annually. It is the current view of 
the Board that an internal audit function is not considered appropriate given the size and nature of the operations and the Group.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises John Greenall, Steven Lampe and Viscount Torrington (Chairman), it reviews the scale and 
structure of the Executive Directors' remuneration and the terms of their service or employment contracts, including share option 
schemes and other bonus arrangements. The remuneration and terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the entire 
Board. No Director or manager of the Company may participate in any meeting at which discussion or any decision regarding his own 
remuneration takes place. The Remuneration Committee also administers any share option schemes or other employee incentive schemes 
adopted by the Company from time to time.
The Remuneration Report is presented on pages 13 to 15 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the 
remuneration of each Director.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. 
Management from each business area and major project identify their risks, the likelihood of those risks occurring, the impact if they 
do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks to an acceptable level. This process is reviewed by the Board 
annually and accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control. It has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the 
date of this report.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal financial control to safeguard shareholders' 
investment and the Group's assets. Such a system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded, 
transactions are authorised and correctly recorded, and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected 
within a timely period. The system, which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report, comprises the 
following main elements, all of which are reviewed by the Board:
 Investor Relations
Communications with investors are given high priority. The Group keeps its institutional shareholders up to date with its business 
and objectives, and obtains their views on the Group, by means of periodic presentations. Additionally the Group is ready to respond 
appropriately to particular issues or questions that may be raised by investors. All shareholders are sent the Annual Report and financial 
statements, the Interim Report and can also elect to receive all press releases, many choosing to receive this information by e-mail.
The Group has a website, www.lansdowneoilandgas.com, which is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about 
the Group including the AIM admission document and press releases. The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate 
with private investors and encourages them to attend. The Board aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees are available to answer questions. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the 
Directors informally following the meeting. The Company complies with best practice in ensuring that the Notice of the AGM is 
dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days ahead of the meeting. Lansdowne Oil & Gas plc
12
Corporate Governance continued
Directors' Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group and Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cashflows of the Group and Company for that period. In preparing the 
Group and Company financial statements the directors are required to:
 then apply them consistently;

information;
 the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group and Company's financial position and financial 
performance;
 financial statements; and
 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Company's 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to 
ensure that the Group and Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Lansdowne Oil & Gas plc website is the responsibility of the Directors. The work carried out by the 
Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
Going Concern
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which assumes that the Company and its subsidiaries will 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors consider that it is appropriate to adopt a going concern assumption in preparing these financial statements for the reasons 
outlined in note 1 to the financial statements.