  
15 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
 
The  Board  is  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance.  The  Listing  Rules  of  the  Financial  Services  Authority 
incorporate the Combined Code, which sets out the principles of Good Governance, and the Code of Best Practice for listed companies. Whilst 
the Company is not required to comply with the Combined Code, the Company's corporate governance procedures take due regard of the 
principles of Good Governance set out in the Combined Code in relation to the size and the stage of development of the Company. 
 
Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors currently comprises four Executive Directors one of whom is the Chairman and three Executive Directors. The Directors 
are of the opinion that the Board comprises a suitable balance and that the recommendations of the Combined Code have been implemented 
to an appropriate level.  The Board, through the Chairman and the Finance Director in particular, maintains regular contact with its advisers 
and public relations consultants in order to ensure that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the 
Company. 
 
Board meetings 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year. For the period ending 31 December 2008, the Board met 10 times in relation to normal 
operational matters. The Board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the Company's strategy, financial activities and 
operating performance.  Day to day management is devolved to the Executive Directors who are charged with consulting the Board on all 
significant financial and operational matters.   
 
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company's solicitors and the Company Secretary ensures necessary information is supplied to the 
Directors on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively, and all Directors have access to independent professional 
advice, at the Company's expense, as and when required. 
 
Board committees 
The Board has established the following committees, each which has its own terms of reference: 
 
Audit Committee 
The  Audit  Committee  is  responsible  for overseeing  the  Group's  financial  reporting  disclosure process;  this also includes  the  choice  of 
appropriate accounting policies.  It also monitors internal financial controls as well as overseeing hiring, performance of the external auditors 
The Audit Committee comprises of two Directors, David Lenigas (Chairman) and Donald Strang. 
 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration for Directors and Senior 
Management.  It comprises of two Directors, David Lenigas (Chairman) and Jeremy Edelman. Financial packages for Directors are established 
by reference to those prevailing in the employment market for executives of equivalent status both in terms of level of responsibility of the 
position and their achievement of recognized job qualifications and skills. The Committee will also have regard to the terms which may be 
required to attract an equivalent experienced executive to join the Board from another company.   
 
Nomination Committee 
The directors do not consider that, given the size of the Board, it is appropriate to have a Nomination Committee. The appropriateness of such 
a committee will however, be kept under regular review by the Board. 
 
Internal controls  
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness. These internal 
controls are designed to safeguard the assets of the Company and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and 
external publication. Whilst they are aware that no system can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, in light of 
increased activity and further development of the Company, continuing reviews of internal controls will be undertaken to ensure that they are 
adequate and effective.  
 
Risk management 
The Board considers risk assessment to be important in achieving its strategic objectives. There is a process of evaluation of performance 
targets through regular reviews by senior management to forecasts.  Project milestones and timelines are regularly reviewed. 
 
Risks and uncertainties 
The principal risks facing the Company are set out below. Risk assessment and evaluation is an essential part of the Group's planning and an 
important aspect of the Group's internal control system.   
16 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
General and economic risks 
  Contractions in the world's major economies or increases in the rate of inflation resulting from international conditions; 
  Movements in the equity and share markets in the United Kingdom and throughout the world; 
  Weakness in global equity and share markets in particular, in the United Kingdom, and adverse changes in market sentiment towards 
the resource industry; 
  Currency exchange rate fluctuations and, in particular, the relative prices of US Dollar, Euro, and the UK Pound; 
  Exposure to interest rate fluctuations; and 
  Adverse changes in factors affecting the success of exploration and development operations, such as increases in expenses, changes 
in government policy and further regulation of the industry; unforeseen major failure, breakdowns or repairs required to key items 
of plant and equipment resulting in significant delays, notwithstanding regular programmes of repair, maintenance and upkeep; 
variations in grades and unforeseen adverse geological factors or prolonged weather conditions. 
 
Funding risk 
  The Group or the companies in which it has invested may not be able to raise, either by debt or further equity, sufficient funds to 
enable completion of planned exploration, investment and/or development projects. 
 
Commodity risk 
  Commodities are subject to high levels of volatility in price and demand. The price of commodities depends on a wide range of 
factors, most of which are outside the control of the Company. Exploration, production, processing and transportation costs also 
depend on many factors, including commodity prices, capital and operating costs in relation to any operational site. 
 
Exploration, development and production risks 
  Oil and gas exploration and development activity is subject to numerous risks, including failure to achieve estimated oil reserves, 
recovery and production rates and capital and operating costs. 
  Success in identifying economically recoverable reserves can never be guaranteed. The Company also cannot guarantee that the 
companies in which it has invested will be able to obtain the necessary permits and approvals required for development of their 
projects. 
  Some of the countries in which the Company operates have native title laws which could affect exploration, development and 
production activities. The companies in which the Company has an interest may be required to undertake clean up programmes on 
any contamination from their operations or to participate in site rehabilitation programmes which may vary from country to country. 
The Group's policy is to follow all applicable laws and regulations and the Company is not currently aware of any material issues in 
this regard. 
  Timely approval of production permits and operating plans through the respective regulatory agencies cannot be guaranteed. 
  Availability of skilled workers is an ongoing challenge. 
  Geology and geophysics are always a potential risk in oil and gas exploration and production activities 
 
Market risk 
  The ability of the Group (and the companies it invests in) to continue to secure sufficient and profitable sales contracts to support its 
operations is a key business risk. 
 
Business Risk 
The Board regularly evaluates and reviews any business risks when reviewing project timelines. The types of risks reviewed include: 
 
Regulatory and compliance obligations 
  Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental requirements 
  Legal risks relating to contracts, licenses and agreements 
  Insurance risks 
  Political risks deemed where appropriate 
 
Insurance 
The Group maintains insurance in respect of its Directors and Officers against liabilities in relation to the Company. 
 
Treasury policy 
The Group finances its operations through equity and holds its cash as a liquid resource to fund the obligations of the Group. Decisions 
regarding the management of these assets are approved by the Board. 
 
Securities trading 
The Board has adopted a Share Dealing Code that applies to Director, senior management and any employee who is in possession of  inside 
information'.  All such persons are prohibited from trading in the Company's securities if they are in possession of  inside information'.  Subject 
to this condition and trading prohibitions applying to certain periods, trading can occur provided the relevant individual has received the 
appropriate prescribed clearance.   
17 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Relations with shareholders 
The  Board  is  committed  to  providing  effective  communication  with  the  shareholders  of  the  Company.   Significant  developments  are 
disseminated through stock exchange announcements and regular updates of the Company website.  The Board views the AGM as a forum for 
communication between the Company and its shareholders and encourages their participation in its agenda. 
 
Competent Person's statement:  
The  technical  information  contained  in  this announcement has been reviewed and approved by Fraser  S  Pritchard,  Executive  Director 
(Operations) for Leni Gas & Oil Plc (member of the SPE) who has 20 years relevant experience in the oil industry. 
 
GLOSSARY & NOTES 
AIM = London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market 
bcf = billion cubic feet 
boe = barrels of oil equivalent calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet of gas equals one barrel of oil 
boepd = boe per day 
bbls = barrels of oil 
bopd = barrels of oil per day 
bwpd = barrels of water per day 
Byron Energy = Byron Energy Pty Ltd 
Contingent Resources = those quantities of petroleum which are estimated, on a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known 
accumulations but which are not currently considered to be commercially recoverable.   
CO
2
 = carbon dioxide 
GIIP = Gas Initially In Place 
GoM = US Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast 
Leed = Leed Petroleum plc 
LGO = Leni Gas & Oil plc 
m = thousand 
mm = million 
mmscf =  million standard cubic feet of gas per day 
mmscfd = mmscf per day 
MOL = MOL Hungarian Oil & Gas 
MOG = Mediterranean Oil & Gas plc 
Prospective Resources = those quantities of petroleum which are estimated, on a given date, to be potentially recoverable from undiscovered 
accumulations. 
Proved Reserves = the estimated volumes of crude oil, condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids which, based upon geologic and 
engineering data, are reasonably certain to be commercially recovered from known reservoirs under existing economic and political/regulatory 
conditions and using conventional or existing equipment and operating methods 
STOIIP = Stock Tank Oil Initially In Place 
 
All figures are net LGO unless otherwise stated 
All reserves and resources definitions used are per the Society of Petroleum Engineers 2005 classification.   
 