 Corporate Governance
Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Provisions
of the Revised Combined Code
The company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in the
Revised Combined Code throughout the year except as noted below.
The company did not comply with provision B.2.1 of the code as the chief
executive was a member of the remuneration committee throughout the
year. Given the various responsibilities of the directors, the Board considers it
appropriate for the chief executive to be a member of the remuneration
committee.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board comprised of Mr B C Clark, non-executive chairman and senior
independent director, and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive director.
Mr M J Hammond (chief executive), Mr J G Mitchell and Mr E G Williams
served as executive directors throughout the year.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the
Group. It met monthly, setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing trading
performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining development possibilities
and formulating policy on key issues. Within the strategies and policies set by
the Board the operation of the business is delegated to management.
A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out
on page 10.
The Board has appointed the following committees to deal with specific
aspects of the Group's affairs.
Audit Committee
The audit committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman of the committee)
and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive directors. It received and
reviewed reports from management and the Group's auditors relating to the
annual accounts and the accounting and internal control systems in use
throughout the Group. The audit committee considered the need for a separate
internal audit department but due to the size of the company and the
procedures in place to monitor both trading performance and internal controls,
it was concluded the costs of a separate internal department would outweigh
the benefits. The Board considered it appropriate for the auditors to carry out
routine taxation services for the company. The committee reviews procedures
of all audit services and permitted non-audit services to ensure the
independence of the auditor is not impaired. The committee has direct access
to the auditors and the auditors have direct access to the audit committee.
Remuneration Committee
The remuneration committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman of the
committee) and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive directors,
together with the chief executive. The remuneration committee was
responsible for determining the service contract terms, remuneration and
other benefits for the executive directors including performance-related
bonus schemes. The chief executive stands down from the committee for any
discussions on his remuneration package. The committee also acts for the
purposes of the Litho Supplies Plc 2004 EMI Share Option Scheme.
The remuneration of the independent non-executive director was established
by the Board. The remuneration committee has responsibility for setting the
remuneration of the chairman in consultation with the Board although he
does not participate in this decision.
Further details of the company's policies on remuneration and service contracts
are given in the Report on Directors'Remuneration on pages 8 to 10.
Nomination Committee
The nomination committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman of the
committee) and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive directors,
together with the chief executive. The nomination committee leads the
process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on
the Board and, in light of the evaluation, prepares a description of the role
and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Evaluation of the Board and its Committees
The Board analyses and evaluates its own performance and the workings of
its committees. The Board considered that the appropriate duties were
adequately performed by both the Board and its committees during the year.
The terms of reference of the remuneration, nomination and audit
committees are available on request from the company secretary at the
registered office. The Board does not consider it appropriate to publish this
information on the company Web site.
6 Evaluation of Individual Directors
The chairman's performance is evaluated by the independent non-executive
director and the executive directors throughout the year and prior to the
renewal of his contract.
The performance of the independent non-executive director is evaluated by
the chairman and the executive directors throughout the year and prior to the
renewal of his contract.
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet without the
executive directors present in order to discuss the business and the
performance of the individual directors.
Mr B C Clark, independent non-executive director and chairman, is not
involved in the day-to-day running of the Group and his experience and
expertise is considered appropriate for his separate roles as independent
non-executive director and chairman.
The performance of the executive directors is evaluated throughout the year
in relation to the responsibilities they have been allocated and their overall
contribution to the Board.
The company arranges appropriate Directors and Officer insurance cover for
the non-executive directors, executive directors, company secretary and other
officers of the Group.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings
Board meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2005 - 10.
Remuneration committee meetings held during the year ended
31 December 2005 - 4.
Audit committee meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2005 - 1.
Board Committees
Meetings Remuneration Audit
Attended Attended Attended
Mr B C Clark 10 4 1
Mr C J Powles 10 4 1
Mr M J Hammond 10 4 1*
Mr J G Mitchell 10 - 1*
Mr E G Williams 10 - -
*Mr M J Hammond and Mr J G Mitchell attended part of the audit committee
by invitation from the committee.
In the opinion of the non-executive and executive directors Mr B C Clark and
Mr C J Powles were independent at their date of appointment and have
continued to remain independent.
Mr B C Clark and Mr C J Powles both consider they have sufficient time to
undertake their duties and responsibilities on the Litho Supplies Plc Board
and its committees taking into consideration their other commitments.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chairman's
Statement includes a review of the business and future developments. There
is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to
communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their
participation. The chairman of the audit and remuneration committees is
available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions. Details of
resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2006
can be found in the Notice of the Meeting.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for Litho Supplies' system of internal
control and reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to
implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure of the achievement of the Group's business objectives. In
pursuing these objectives, internal control can only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
During the year an internal control review was carried out covering all
controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management involving the senior management from all areas of the Group's
business. This review is part of a continuous process that has been established
for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group's business risks. The
process is reviewed by the Board and the audit committee and discussed with
the external auditors. The company has complied with the Combined Code
provisions on internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance notes
issued for directors in September 1999.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to
providing effective internal control are as follows:
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a schedule of
matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. Each executive director
has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group. The
communication includes the delegation of authority and other control
procedures, together with appropriate accounting policies.
Each year the Board approves the plan and other performance targets key to
the success of the business, the components of which form the financial and
operating objectives for the Group. Performance against these targets is
reported and monitored monthly.
The Group appoints experienced and professional staff of the necessary
calibre, both through promotion and recruitment, to fulfil their allotted
responsibilities. The Group also carries out comprehensive training
programmes for staff.
7