 Corporate Governance
6
Statement	 by	 the	 Directors	 on	 Compliance	 with	 the	 Provisions	 of	 the	 Revised	 Combined	 Code	 The company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in the 
2006 Combined Code throughout the year.
Going	 Concern	 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the accounts.
The	 Workings	 of	 the	 Board	 and	 its	 Committees
The	 Board	 The Board comprised of Mr B C Clark, non-executive chairman and senior 
independent director, and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive 
director. Mr M J Hammond (chief executive), Mr J G Mitchell (financial 
director) and Mr E G Williams (sales director) served as executive directors 
throughout the year.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management 
of the Group. It met nine times during 2007, setting and monitoring Group 
strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, 
examining development possibilities and formulating policy on key issues. 
The Board is being supplied with timely information and is receiving 
appropriate training. Within the strategies and policies set by the Board the 
operation of the business is delegated to senior management.
A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out 
on page 10.
The Board has appointed the following committees to deal with specific 
aspects of the Group's affairs. The board is content that the non-executive 
chairman, Mr Clark, is independent and taking into consideration his 
experience and expertise, it is appropriate for him to chair the committees of 
the Board.
Audit	 Committee	 The audit committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman of the committee) 
and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive directors. Mr Clark is a 
chartered accountant who has extensive experience in the City and knowledge 
of corporate governance and stewardship of public companies. Considering the 
size, geographical coverage and complexity of the company, combined with Mr 
Clark's skills, the Board considers it appropriate for Mr Clark to be a member of 
the audit committee. The Board is content with Mr Clark's independence. Mr 
Powles is a chartered accountant with extensive experience in banking, legal 
and commercial aspects of corporate activity. Mr Powles is independent in 
judgment and has an enquiring and analytical mind, and the Board is satisfied 
that the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience  , as 
required by clause C.3.1 of the Combined Code.
The audit committee received and reviewed reports from management and the 
Group's auditor relating to the annual accounts and the accounting and internal 
control systems in use throughout the Group. The audit committee considered 
the need for a separate internal audit department but due to the size of the 
company and the procedures in place to monitor both trading performance 
and internal controls, it was concluded the costs of a separate internal audit 
department would outweigh the benefits. The Board considered it appropriate 
for the auditor to carry out routine taxation services for the company. The 
committee reviews procedures of all audit services and permitted non-audit 
services to ensure the independence of the auditor is not impaired. The 
committee has direct access to the auditor and the auditor has direct access to 
the audit committee.
The audit committee will review in confidence any concerns raised by any 
member of the company' s staff and if the committee considers necessary, arrange 
for a further independent investigation and appropriate follow up action.
Remuneration	 Committee	 The remuneration committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman of the 
committee) and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive directors. The 
remuneration committee was responsible for determining the service contract 
terms, remuneration and other benefits for the executive directors including 
performance-related bonus schemes. The committee also oversees the 
operations of the Litho Supplies Plc 2004 EMI Share Option Scheme.
The remuneration of the independent non-executive director was established 
by the Board. The remuneration committee has responsibility for setting the 
remuneration of the chairman in consultation with the Board, the chairman 
does not participate in this decision.
Further details of the company's policies on remuneration and service 
contracts are given in the directors' remuneration report on pages 8 to 10.
Nomination	 Committee	 The nomination committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman of the 
committee) and Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive directors. The 
nomination committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes 
recommendations for ratification by the Board. The committee evaluates the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of the 
evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment.
Evaluation	 of	 the	 Board	 and	 its	 Committees	 The Board analyses and evaluates its own performance and the workings 
of its committees. The Board considered that the appropriate duties were 
adequately performed by both the Board and its committees during the year. 
The terms of reference of the remuneration, nomination and audit committees 
are available on request from the company secretary at the registered office. 
The Board does not consider it appropriate to publish this information on the 
company website.
Evaluation	 of	 Individual	 Directors	 The chairman's performance is evaluated by the independent non-executive 
director and the executive directors throughout the year and prior to the 
renewal of his contract. Internal	 Control	 The Board has overall responsibility for Litho Supplies' system of internal 
control and reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to 
implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure of the achievement of the Group's business objectives. In 
pursuing these objectives, internal control can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
During the year internal control reviews were carried out covering all controls 
to assess their effectiveness, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management involving the senior management from all 
areas of the Group's business. This review is part of a continuous process that 
has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group's 
business risks. The process is reviewed by the Board and the audit committee 
and discussed with the external auditor. The company has complied with the 
Combined Code provisions on internal control in accordance with the Turnbull 
guidance notes issued for directors in September 1999.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to 
providing effective internal control are as follows:
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a schedule of 
matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. Each executive director 
has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group. The 
communication includes the delegation of authority and other control 
procedures, together with appropriate accounting policies.
Each year the Board approves the plan and other performance targets key 
to the success of the business, the components of which form the financial 
and operating objectives for the Group. Performance against these targets is 
reported and monitored monthly.
The Group appoints experienced and professional staff of the necessary 
calibre, both through promotion and recruitment, to fulfil their allotted 
responsibilities. The Group also carries out comprehensive training 
programmes for staff.
7
www.litho.co.uk
The performance of the independent non-executive director is evaluated by 
the chairman and the executive directors throughout the year and prior to the 
renewal of his contract.
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet without the 
executive directors present in order to discuss the business and the 
performance of the individual directors.
Mr B C Clark, independent non-executive director and chairman, is not 
involved in the day-to-day running of the Group and his experience and 
expertise is considered appropriate for his separate roles as independent 
non-executive director and chairman.
The performance of the executive directors is evaluated throughout the year 
in relation to the responsibilities they have been allocated and their overall 
contribution to the Board. The company's articles of association provide that 
one third of the company's directors must retire at each AGM and if they so 
wish, subject to satisfactory performance, offer themselves for re-election.
The company arranges appropriate directors and officer insurance cover for 
the non-executive directors, executive directors, company secretary and other 
officers of the Group.
Attendance	 at	 Board	 and	 Committee	 Meetings	 Board meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2007 - 9. 
Remuneration committee meetings held during the year ended 
31 December 2007 - 2. 
Audit committee meeting held during the year ended 31 December 2007 - 1.
 Board Committees
 Meetings Remuneration  Audit
 Attended Attended  Attended
Mr B C Clark 9 2  1
Mr C J Powles 9 2  1
Mr M J Hammond 9 -  -
Mr J G Mitchell 9 -  -
Mr E G Williams 9 -  -
In the opinion of the non-executive and executive directors Mr B C Clark 
and Mr C J Powles were independent at their date of appointment and have 
continued to remain independent.
Mr B C Clark and Mr C J Powles both consider they have sufficient time to 
undertake their duties and responsibilities on the Litho Supplies Plc Board 
and its committees taking into consideration their other commitments.
Relations	 with	 Shareholders	 Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chairman's 
Statement includes a review of the business and future developments. There 
is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to 
communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their 
participation. The chairman of the audit, remuneration and nomination 
committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions. 
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 
7 May 2008 can be found in the inserted Notice of the Meeting.