 The newly merged group is committed to high standards of
corporate governance. In its component forms as Logica and
CMG, the group complied throughout the period under review
with the applicable principles and provisions set out in the
Combined Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority
Listing Requirements. In addition, CMG was compliant for the
period under review with the requirements of Euronext
Amsterdam. The board has noted the publication of both the
Higgs Report on corporate governance and the Smith Report in
respect of the conduct of audit committees, both of which were
released subsequent to the end of the financial period. While
the introduction of the recommendations does not affect
disclosure for the financial period under review, the board
believes that it adheres in principle to the spirit of both reports.
Once the final reports are published, the company's various
terms of reference will be reviewed.
The board
Following the merger of the Logica plc and CMG plc groups, a
new board of the combined group was constituted. The new
directors were appointed on 30 December 2002. The
membership of the board committees outlined below reflects
the current position. However, the functional constitution and
methodology of the Logica plc and CMG plc boards were very
similar and therefore the following summary of the approach to
corporate governance is applicable to the merged group
throughout the period under review. 
There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which
receives such information as is required to properly fulfil its
duties. The board comprises six non-executive directors,
including the chairman and deputy chairman, and four executive
directors who together bring a wide range of skills and
experience to the board. All directors are obliged to submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The board takes the opportunity afforded by the AGM and
meetings with institutional investors to ensure the company's
objectives are widely communicated and understood. All
shareholders are welcomed to the AGM where developments in
the business are explained and the shareholders have the
opportunity to ask questions. All preliminary, final and interim
results, together with other press releases, are published on the
group's website. Financial reporting is presented in such a way as
to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the
company's position and prospects. 
The board annually reviews the effectiveness of the group's
system of internal control. In addition to this annual review, the
company operates other procedures to bring relevant internal
control matters to board attention. These are explained in the
section on internal control in this statement. 
The audit committee is chaired by Richard North and also
includes Angela Knight, George Loudon and Wim Dik, all
independent non-executive directors. Its terms of reference
include the review of the group's annual and interim financial
statements, accounting policies and internal management and
financial controls. It also considers the appointment and fees of
the external auditors and discusses the audit scope as well as the
findings and management letters arising from audits. The audit
committee normally meets three times a year, together with the
external auditors. The chief executive and the group finance
director attend the meetings at the request of the committee.
The nominations committee is chaired by Cor Stutterheim and
also includes Martin Read and Helmut Mamsch. It considers
appointments of new directors and recommends any new
appointments to the board.
The remuneration committee comprises independent non-
executive directors and is chaired by Angela Knight. Its other
members are Helmut Mamsch and George Loudon. Its key role 
is to determine the appropriate levels of remuneration for the
company's executive directors and senior management.
Directors' remuneration is set at the level necessary to attract
and retain the directors needed to run the company
successfully, this level being set independently by a formal,
transparent procedure. The group's remuneration policy is set
out on pages 38 to 45. Full details of directors' remuneration
are set out on page 43.
Internal control
The board is responsible for the group's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The board has
reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control for
the period under review and the period to the approval of the
financial statements. It should be understood that such a system
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable rather than
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group operates a highly structured, objectives-driven
approach to fulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of
sustained profitability and growth. The strategic objectives of
the group are captured in a strategic plan, developed by the
executive committee and approved by the board, which
addresses revenue and associated costs and necessary
investment. The strategic plan then forms the basis of annual
revenue and profit targets for the operating units in the group.
The research and development and capital investment
programmes are subject to a formal review procedure requiring
that rigorous qualification criteria be met prior to each instance
of material investment. Evaluation and post-investment
appraisals are performed by reference to detailed business plans.
Corporate governance
46 Corporate governance LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 The monitoring regime established by the board, through which
the performance indicators derived from the strategic and
annual plans are regularly interrogated, ensures that events,
which pose significant risk to the attainment of the group's
objectives or significant control lapses, are communicated
through a process of rapid escalation to senior management.
Unit performance is evaluated on a monthly basis, and this
evaluation includes the addressing of identified control
weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of previously
recommended corrective actions.
The board acknowledges that the group operates in a fluid and
rapidly developing business environment. Changes to the risk
profiles in the business environment arise as a result of both the
external challenges in a highly competitive marketplace and
through the internal development of new products,
management procedures and systems. As a result, a risk
management process has been established, which involves the
regular evaluation of inherent business risks and the
identification of controls to address them.
The board has reviewed the key business, financial, operational
and compliance risks facing the group, prioritised their
significance and determined current procedures and processes in
place to detect and address them. Risk was assessed with
reference to the achievement of the business objectives of the
respective companies, and will be assessed in the future with
reference to the revised objectives of the newly merged group.
The findings of both mechanisms have been used to better
target resources to control the main areas of risk, to enhance the
current risk based internal audit programme and to improve the
process of regular reporting on controls to the board.
The board has also devised detailed mechanisms for the
monitoring of risk and associated controls that provide the core
assurance for the internal control regime. The inherited
processes of both Logica and CMG are inherently similar and
have been combined to produce a comprehensive approach to
the risk profile of the merged group. The continuous
monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the
responsibility of the board and line management respectively.
Operational guidance on the appropriate approach to risk is
provided through clearly defined delegation of responsibilities
and authorisation levels, and by clearly documented internal
procedures that are set out in core operating procedures
common to all areas of the group. The internal audit and
quality assurance functions perform regular audits and provide
assistance towards the fulfilment of line management's risk
management responsibilities. The external auditors contribute
an additional independent perspective on the overall integrity
of those areas of the internal control system, which they have
assessed in the course of their work, and report annually to the
audit committee with their findings. The audit committee
assesses the evidence provided to them through the various
mechanisms and seeks to ensure that the risk management
process adequately addresses all of the major risks to the group.
Going concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the
company and the group have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it
is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
The directors are required by United Kingdom company law to
prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and
company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and
cash flows of that year. In preparing those financial statements,
the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the accounts and
  prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group and company will
continue in business
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the accounts. The directors are
responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial
position of the group and company and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for the group's system of
internal control and for safeguarding the assets of the group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention of fraud
and other irregularities.
By order of the board
P Weaver FCIS
Company secretary
5 March 2003
www.logicacmg.com Corporate governance 47