 16
Annual report and accounts 2013 Lombard Risk Management plc
The role of the Board
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors. 
Ultimately, the Board's role is the protection and 
enhancement of shareholder value. The Board provides 
overall strategy and direction for the Group and ensures 
that the necessary financial and other resources are made 
available to enable those objectives to be met. It has a 
schedule of matters reserved for its approval including, 
but not limited to, decisions on strategy and risk 
management, approval of budgets, acquisitions and 
disposals, major capital expenditure, legal and insurance 
issues, Board structure and the appointment of advisers. 
In some areas responsibility is delegated to committees 
of the Board within clearly defined terms of reference.
Once the strategic and financial objectives of the Company 
have been set by the Board it is the role of the Chief Executive 
to ensure that through the day-to-day management 
of the Group's business they are achieved.
All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders 
at the next general meeting following appointment 
to the Board and to annual re-election. The Executive 
Directors have service contracts, which are terminable 
upon periods between three and twelve months' notice.
The names of the current Directors together with their 
biographical details are set out in the About us  page 
within the Lombard Risk website. 
The Directors are given access to independent professional 
advice at the Group's expense, when the Directors deem it is 
necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The Board meets at least six times a year and the Audit 
Committee and Remuneration Committee normally meet 
on a formal basis twice a year. 
The Board receives appropriate and timely information 
prior to each meeting, with a formal agenda and Board 
and committee papers being distributed several days 
Corporate governance report 
For the year ended 31 March 2013
Note from the Chairman
 
Dear Shareholder,
The Board is committed to high standards of 
integrity and corporate governance and consistently 
seeks to apply the principles set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code ) as 
judged appropriate by the Board for an AIM 
listed company.
We recognise the importance of diversity on 
the Board and are currently seeking to replace 
Brian Crowe, who has announced his intention 
to resign after nine years' committed, valuable 
service, with two independent Non-executives 
with business backgrounds that supplement 
the remaining members of the Board.
The Company is seeking to ensure it has 
an appropriate balance of Executive and 
Non-executive elements on its Board.
On making the anticipated appointments, the 
Board will be assessing the independence of its 
Non-executive Directors and will subsequently 
make arrangements to have its effectiveness 
assessed as set out in the Code.
Philip Crawford
Chairman
13 May 2013
Board membership
Executive Director
Non-executive Director
Philip Crawford 
(Chairman)
Brian Crowe
(Non-executive 
Director)
John Wisbey 
(Chief Executive 
Officer)
Nick Davies
(Chief Technology 
Officer)
Paul Tuson 
(Chief Finance 
Officer)
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Philip Crawford Brian Crowe 
(Committee 
Chairman)
Philip Crawford 
(Committee 
Chairman)
John Wisbey
Brian Crowe 17
www.lombardrisk.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Governance 14-23
before meetings take place. Any Director may challenge 
Group proposals and decisions are taken democratically 
after discussion. Any Director who feels that any concern 
remains unresolved after discussion may ask for that concern 
to be noted in the minutes of the meeting. Any specific 
actions arising from such meetings are agreed by the 
Board and then followed up by management. 
The Group maintains, for its Directors and officers, liability 
insurance for any claims against them in that capacity.
The Group has effective procedures in place to deal with 
conflicts of interest. The Board is aware of other commitments 
of its Directors and changes to these commitments are 
reported to the Board.
A summary of the Board's main work in year ended 
31 March 2013 includes:
    strategy and delivery, with a particular focus on the 
development of the EBA common reporting solution 
and the REFORM platform;
    evaluation of external growth opportunities;
    financial overview; and
    corporate governance and compliance.
In order to ensure the effective co-operation of the Board, 
there is a clear division between the responsibilities of the 
Directors as set out below.
Directors' roles
The Chairman's role is to:
    ensure good corporate governance;
    lead the Board, ensuring the effectiveness of the Board 
in all aspects of its role;
    ensure effective communication with shareholders; and
    set the Board's agenda and ensure that all Directors 
are encouraged to participate fully in the activities 
and decision-making process of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer's role is to:
    lead and provide strategic direction to the Company's 
management team;
    run the Company on a day-to-day basis;
    be responsible, along with the executive team, for 
implementing the decisions of the Board and its 
committees; and
    be the Company spokesperson, communicating with 
external audiences, such as investors, analysts and 
the media.
The Non-executive Directors' role is to:
    challenge the opinions of the Executive Directors, 
provide fresh insight in terms of strategic direction 
and bring their diverse experience and expertise to 
the benefit of the leadership of the Group;
    assess the performance of the Chairman;
    provide a sounding board for the Chairman and serve 
as an intermediary for the other Directors as necessary;
    scrutinise the performance of the Executive Directors 
in terms of meeting agreed goals and objectives;
    be available to shareholders if they have concerns which 
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has 
failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate; 
    monitor the reporting of performance;
    ensure that the financial information, controls and 
systems of risk management within the Group are 
robust and defensible; and
    appoint or remove Executive Directors to or from 
the Board, when necessary.
Board length of service (years)
Philip Crawford
John Wisbey
Paul Tuson
Nick Davies
Brian Crowe
0 5 10 15 20 25 18
Annual report and accounts 2013 Lombard Risk Management plc
Corporate governance report continued
For the year ended 31 March 2013
Internal controls
The Directors are responsible for the systems of internal 
control. Although no system of internal control can provide 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, 
the Group's systems are designed to provide the Directors 
with reasonable assurance that problems are identified 
on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately. The Board 
considers that there have been no substantial weaknesses 
in internal financial controls resulting in any material losses, 
contingencies or uncertainties and thus disclosable in the 
accounts. The Board has considered the need for an internal 
audit function and has concluded that there is no current 
need for such a function within the Company.
Accounting policies
The Board considers the appropriateness of its accounting 
policies on an annual basis. The Board believes that its 
accounting policies and estimation techniques are 
appropriate, in particular in relation to income recognition, 
research and development and deferred expenses.
Information
Board reports and papers are circulated to the Directors 
in advance of the relevant Board or committee meeting. 
These papers are supplemented by information specifically 
requested by the Directors from time to time. Minutes 
of Board and committee meetings are circulated to all 
Board members.
The Non-executive Directors receive monthly management 
accounts and regular management reports and information 
which enable them to scrutinise the Group's and 
management's performance against agreed objectives.
Shareholder relations  
and Annual General Meeting (AGM )
The Company recognises the importance of dialogue 
with all of its shareholders. The AGM is an opportunity 
to communicate with institutional and other shareholders. 
The outcome of the voting on AGM resolutions is disclosed by 
means of an announcement on the London Stock Exchange.
Additional information is supplied through the circulation 
of the interim report and the annual report and accounts. 
Lombard Risk Management plc maintains up-to-date 
information on the investor section of its website,  
www.lombardrisk.com.
Every shareholder receives a full annual report after each 
year end and has access to an interim report online after 
each half year end. Care is taken to ensure that any price 
sensitive information is released to all its shareholders, 
institutional and private, at the same time in accordance 
with London Stock Exchange requirements.
Board committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board chaired 
by Brian Crowe and also comprises Philip Crawford. The 
Report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 21.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board 
chaired by Philip Crawford and also comprises Brian Crowe 
and John Wisbey. The Report of the Remuneration 
Committee can be found on page 22.
Nominations Committee
The Directors do not consider that, given the size of the 
Board, it is appropriate at this stage to have a Nomination 
Committee. However, this will be kept under regular 
review by the Board.