 Statement on Corporate Governance 
 
Annual Report 2013 | Anglo-Eastern Plantations Plc 35 
Application of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
Anglo-Eastern Plantations Plc is committed to business integrity, appropriately high ethical standards and 
professionalism in all its activities and operations. This includes a commitment to high standards in corporate 
governance relating in particular to appropriate systems and controls adopted at a senior level of management of the 
Group and operation of the Board. The bench-mark standards in this regard are set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code ( the Code'), as most recently revised in September 2012 which forms part of the Listing Rules of 
the London Stock Exchange. Where provisions of the Code were not met during 2012, particular comment is made 
in the statements below and in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 40 to 43. 
 
The Board 
AEP is led by a strong and experienced Board of Directors (see biographical details set out on page 34).  During 
2013 the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, one Executive Director and two further Non-Executive 
Directors, both of whom are considered by the Board to be Independent.  
Dato' John Lim was appointed as Executive Director, Corporate Finance and Corporate Affairs on 1 September 
2010. Prior to 1 September 2010, Dato' John Lim was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.  
 
Madam Lim Siew Kim was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 31 January 2011. Neither external search 
consultancy nor open advertising was used for such appointment. The Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee is of the view that Madam Lim, who owns 52% of the Company's shares and was the Chairman of the 
Company from 1993 to 1998 with her experience in plantation is an appropriate candidate for the position. The other 
members of the Board are satisfied that through the specific powers reserved for the Board, and given the presence 
of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, there is a reasonable balance of influence.  
 
Independence of the Non-Executive Directors 
The Board has evaluated the independence of each of its Non-Executive Directors. Following this assessment, the 
Board has determined that, throughout the reporting period, both of its Independent Non-Executive Directors, who 
were appointed for specified terms of office, were independent, base above all on their objectivity and integrity. The 
terms and conditions relating to the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available from the Company 
Secretary. 
 
In arriving at its conclusion, the Board considered the factors set out in the Combined Code including, inter alia, 
whether any of the Non-Executive Directors: 
  has been an employee of the Group within the last five years; 
  has, or had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Group; 
  receives remuneration from the Group other than a Director's fee; 
  has close family ties with any of the Group's advisors, Directors or senior employees; 
  holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or 
bodies; 
  has served more than nine years on the Board; or 
  represents a significant shareholder 
The Combined Code acknowledges that a Director may be regarded as independent notwithstanding the existence 
of any of the above factors. 
 
The Independent Non-Executive Directors have a wide range of business interests beyond their position with the 
Company and the rest of the Board agree unanimously that they have shown themselves to be fully independent.  
 
Senior Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Nik Din Bin Nik Sulaiman acted in the capacity of Senior Non-Executive Director throughout the year. 
 
  Statement on Corporate Governance 
 
Annual Report 2013 | Anglo-Eastern Plantations Plc 36 
Operation of the Board 
A schedule of duties and decisions reserved for the Board and management respectively has been adopted. The 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination & Corporate Governance Committees have written terms of reference which 
are available for inspection upon request from the Company Secretary. 
 
Unless warranted by unusual matters, the Board normally meets two to three times each year. Otherwise all other 
matters are dealt with by written resolution and telephone conference. During 2013, there were three meetings, 
attended by all the Directors. 
 
The Independent Non-Executive Directors met on their own during 2013. The Chairman met all the Non-Executive 
Directors, in the absence of the Executive Director, twice in 2013. 
 
The Board is supplied with relevant, timely and accurate information for review prior to each meeting to enable them 
to discharge their duties. The Audit Committee is responsible for the integrity of the financial information by 
interacting with the management and with the internal auditors prior to reaching the Board. The Board has identified 
and formally adopted a schedule of key matters that are reserved for its decision, including the annual fiscal and 
capital budgets, interim, preliminary and final results announcements, final dividends, the appointment of Directors 
and the Company Secretary, circulars to shareholders, Group treasury policies and capital expenditure and 
acquisitions. Certain other matters are delegated to Board committees, the details of which are set out below. 
 
During 2013, the Board followed the Group results and the development of the activities of the various subsidiaries 
by means of reports prepared by management in Malaysia and Indonesia. 
 
There is an agreed Board procedure enabling Directors to take independent advice, in the furtherance of their duties, 
at the Company's expense. Each Board member has access to the impartial advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that appropriate procedures are followed. The Company 
maintained Directors' and officers' liability insurance throughout 2013. 
 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for two year terms renewable on recommendation of the Board. To maintain 
the vitality of the Board, the Directors specify fixed terms of office for Non-Executives. However, the Board will review 
the position of each Director for the normal three yearly re-election under the Articles. 
 
Dato' John Lim, the only Executive Director on Board sits on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
for 2013. The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 provides for smaller companies like AEP to have two 
independent Non-Executive Directors in the Audit and Remuneration Committees and a majority independent Non-
Executive Directors in the Nomination Committee. The Code does not expressly provide for the exclusion of 
Executive Director in the Audit and Remuneration Committees. In practice companies would normally exclude the 
Executive Director from membership so as not to taint the independence of both the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. However the Board felt strongly that given the small composition of the various Committees, they would 
benefit from Dato' John Lim's wealth of commercial and audit experience. It was also felt that Dato' John Lim being 
the only Director based in London could only adequately represent the Company in any shareholders and investor 
relation if he sits in the three Committees. The Board also believes that the Non-Executive Directors, being 
professionals in their own areas of expertise would maintain their impartiality and independence by their majority 
presence in all three Committees.    
 
In 2013 the Board conducted a review of its performance by discussion. No major issues arose from this review. 
 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee currently comprises Mr. Nik Din Bin Nik Sulaiman 
(Chairman), Dato' John Lim and Mr. Jonathan Law Ngee Song who was appointed on 4 July 2013. Drs Kanaka 
Puradiredja resigned from the Committee on 31 July 2013. The committee had four meetings during 2013, attended 
by all members. 
 
The policy on gender diversity is described in page 21 of the Strategic Report.  Statement on Corporate Governance 
 
Annual Report 2013 | Anglo-Eastern Plantations Plc 37 
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed and deliberated on the Statement of Corporate for inclusion in 
the Annual Report. It also met to discuss and approve the appointment and resignation of Directors. During the year 
it also outsourced the search for a new Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer to an external recruiting agency 
in Singapore to strengthen its management in Indonesian operations. 
 
Relations with shareholders 
The Executive Director and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director contacted certain principal shareholders 
and at all times are pleased to speak to and meet any shareholder. Given the dispersion of Directors and 
shareholders it is not possible for every Director to meet shareholders in the presence of management. A member of 
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be available at the 2014 AGM. 
 
The Company maintains a corporate website at http://www.angloeastern.co.uk. This website has detailed information 
on various aspects of the Group's operations. The website is updated regularly and includes information on the 
Company's share price and the price of crude palm oil.  
 
The Company's results and other news releases issued via the London Stock Exchange's Regulatory News Service 
are published on the Investors  section of the website and together with other relevant documentation concerning 
the Company, are available for downloading. 
 
Environmental and corporate responsibility 
In 2004 a group of growers, processors, retailers and wildlife and conservation groups founded the Roundtable for 
Sustainable Palm Oil , known as RSPO, to codify and promote best practices in the industry. The Group's 
Management and Directors take a serious view of their environmental and social responsibilities and are fully 
committed to the principles developed by RSPO. These principles cover eight headings as follows: 
  Transparency 
  Compliance with local laws and regulations 
  Commitment to long term economic and financial viability 
  Use of appropriate best practices by growers and millers 
  Environmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity 
  Responsible consideration of individuals and communities affected by growers and mills 
  Responsible development of new plantings 
  Commitment to continuous improvement in key areas of activity. 
 
Within these headings are 40 detailed principles.  Among the most important are: 
  Not to remove primary forest 
  Not to use fire for clearing areas designated for new or replanting 
  To follow accepted soil and water conservation practices 
  To use agrochemicals in ways that do not endanger health or the environment and to promote non-chemical 
methods of pest management 
  To leave wild areas for wildlife corridors, water catchment and riparian protection 
  Provide full treatment of mill effluent water 
  Ensure the wishes of local communities and individuals are taken account of, and 
  To pay to individuals with residual rights over land only freely agreed compensation, in addition to following 
government land regulations. 
 
AEP seeks to comply with these principles in all areas of its activities. 