 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 9
Corporate Governance
The Combined Code
This report has been prepared by reference to The Combined Code
on Corporate Governance published in June 1998 (the Old Code ).
However, additional disclosures are made in compliance with the
new version of the Combined Code issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in July 2003 (the New Code ). The review of
these corporate governance disclosures required to be made by the
auditors solely relates to those matters required to be disclosed and
audited under the Old Code.
The Company has during the year to 30 September 2004 and to the
date of this report complied with all the provisions affecting
companies (known as section 1) of the Old Code. The Company has
also complied with the equivalent provisions of the New Code, save
that following the death of Sir Alastair Morton on 1 September 2004,
the board comprised an independent non-executive chairman, three
independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
The New Code suggests that at least half the board, excluding the
chairman, should be non-executive. The Company is currently
recruiting two additional independent directors.
The purpose of this report is to explain how the Company has
applied the principles of good governance so far as these relate to
listed companies. These cover four subject areas:
  directors
  directors' remuneration
 accountability and audit, and
 relations with shareholders.
Directors
The Board
The Company is led and controlled by the board of directors which
currently has eight members, comprising an independent non-
executive chairman, three non-executive directors, all of whom the
board judges to be independent, and four executive directors.
Details of the individuals' skills and experience are contained in the
directors' biographies on page 18 of the annual review. As noted
above, the Company is currently seeking two additional independent
directors.
The board comprised ten directors until 26 April 2004, five of whom
(excluding the chairman) were non-executive, and nine directors until
1 September 2004, four of whom (excluding the chairman) were
non-executive.
The board meets regularly, normally on six occasions during the year
and more frequently if necessary, including two meetings in South
Africa. The board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction
and control of the Company; is the custodian of the Company's
strategic aims, vision and values; and ensures that the necessary
financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place
to enable the Company to meet its objectives. It has a formal
schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the most material of
which are:
  appointments to (and removals from) the board and 
executive office
  approval of budgets, raising of finance through issues of shares or
entry into borrowings or other obligations, declarations of
dividends
 reviewing the operating and financial position of the Company
  the approval of accounts and reports comprising the financial
results of the Group, and other documents for external publication
  approval of the treasury and other risk management policies of the
Group
  approval of significant contracts and commitments, including
acquisitions or realisations of assets
 responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters.
Whilst all directors have equal responsibility for managing the
Company's affairs, it is the role of executive management to run the
business within the parameters laid down by the board and to
produce clear and accurate reports to enable the board to assess
their performance. The executives make full use of the expertise and
experience that the non-executive directors bring from their business
careers.
The chairman routinely holds discussions with non-executive
directors without the executive directors being present.
All directors are free to express their views, and to ask that these be
recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a directors' and officers'
liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain
circumstances for the benefit of directors and other Group personnel.
Chairman and chief executive
The roles of chairman and chief executive are clearly separated and
set out in writing. The chairman, who is an independent director, is
responsible for leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness
and setting its agenda, and for ensuring that there is effective
communication with all shareholders. The chairman also facilitates
the effective contribution of all directors, and ensures that there is a
constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive
directors.
The role of the chief executive is to provide leadership to the
executive team in running the business and to develop proposals for
the board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgment. Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 10 10
Corporate Governance
Board balance and independence
The board believes that it has sufficient members to contain an
appropriate balance of skills and experience, but is not so large as to
be unwieldy. Upon the recruitment of the additional independent
directors referred to above, the board believes it will be able to
manage succession issues without undue disruption. The structure
and composition was designed to provide a balanced board, with no
one individual or group of individuals being able to dominate the
decision taking.
The board keeps the membership of its committees under review, to
ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience. It is satisfied that
all directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is
not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
Using the definition of independence contained in the Combined
Code, the board judges all of the non-executive directors, including
the chairman, to be independent. In addition to those serving at the
date of this report, Edward Haslam served as an executive director
until 26 March 2004, Dr Sam Jonah, KBE served as a non-executive
director until 26 April 2004 and Sir Alastair Morton served as a non-
executive director until his death on 1 September 2004. The board
judged Sir Alastair Morton to be independent but felt that under the
terms of the definition Dr Jonah could not be viewed as
independent, in view of his previous executive career with the Group.
However, the board believes that independence is a state of mind
and believed that during his tenure Dr Jonah demonstrated
independence of judgement.
Following the death of Sir Alastair Morton, Roger Phillimore has been
designated as the Senior Independent Director. He is available to
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the
normal channels has failed to resolve, or for which such contact
would be inappropriate.
Appointments to the Board
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new directors to the board, a Nomination Committee
has been empowered. Its work is more fully described in its report
on page 27.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria. In
the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken
to ascertain that they have sufficient time available to meet their
board and, where relevant, committee responsibilities. As part of this
process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on
appointment, undertake to update the board of any changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors
are available for public inspection, and a sample letter of
appointment is provided on the Company's website,
www.lonmin.com.
As policy, the board would not normally agree to an executive
director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a
FTSE100 Company, or the chairmanship of such a Company.
Information and professional development
The board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form
and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties. All directors
are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of
the executive directors or management. Certain of the executive
directors are also directors of the principal operating subsidiaries,
which provides them with further insight into the affairs of the Group.
The chairman ensures that all directors continually update their skills
and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Company's
operations needed to fulfil their role. The Company provides the
necessary resources for developing and updating all directors'
knowledge and capabilities, both on first appointment and
subsequently as necessary. This includes a full, formal and tailored
induction programme, including when appropriate the opportunity of
meeting a range of major shareholders and external advisors.
There is a procedure in place for directors to take independent
professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the
Company's expense. In addition, board committees are provided
with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional
support as they may require from time to time, to undertake 
their duties.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary,
who is responsible for information flows to the board, facilitating
induction and assisting with professional development as required,
ensuring compliance with board procedure and applicable laws and
regulation and advising the board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the company secretary is a 
board decision.
Performance evaluation
The board has evaluated its own performance, that of the board
committees and of the individual directors. To do so the chairman
sought views from board members in order to identify the consensus
of opinions, which were then summarised to and approved by the
board. The purpose of the evaluation was to assess the
effectiveness of the board process, and whether each director
continued to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to
their role. There were no items arising from the review on which the
board felt the chairman should act.