 LOOKERS PLC REPOR T & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 15
S TATEMENTS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors' statement of Auditors'
responsibilities set out below and on page 21, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective
responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 22 to 39, the Company and the Group
have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments
and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have requested that the Auditors take whatever steps and
undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate having regard to Auditing Standards and
Guidelines, for the purpose of enabling them to give their Audit Report.
STATEMENT BY THE AUDITORS ON THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
As disclosed in the Audit Report on page 21 it is the responsibility of the Auditors to form an independent opinion,
based on the audit, on the financial statements prepared by the Directors, and for the Auditors to report their
opinion to the members of the Company.
STATEMENT OF APPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES IN THE COMBINED CODE
The Code establishes 14 Principles of Good Governance which are split into four areas described below.
Directors - The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which during the financial year under review
comprised six Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. Mr. G.J. Morris and Mr. D.C. Mace are
considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors. All Directors are able to take independent professional
advice in furtherance of their duties if necessary. All Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the first
opportunity after their appointment and at least once every three years. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets every two months. Prior to meetings, all
Directors receive information on financial, business and corporate issues. The Board is responsible for overall Group
strategy, acquisition and disposal policy, approval of major capital expenditure and consideration of significant
financial matters. The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments. It also ensures that all Directors
receive appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as appropriate. 
On 9th May 2002, a Nomination Committee was formed and is chaired by Mr. G.J. Morris, prior to this, matters
were decided by the Board.
Mr. G.J. Morris who is considered by the Board to be independent, is the senior independent Director. 
Directors' Remuneration - The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr. D.C. Mace, measures the performance
of the Executive Directors as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration including bonuses, long term
incentive plans and awards of share options. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by
negotiation and takes account of the time spent on Company matters.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 17 to 20 and
includes details of Directors' incentive payments and the related performance criteria.
Relations with Shareholders - The Company encourages two way communication with its institutional
shareholders. All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting, at which
all Executive Directors and Chairmen of Committees are available to answer questions.
Accountability and Audit - The Board uses the Reviews of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Financial
Director and the Directors' Report to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position
and prospects. The Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements are described above. The Directors'
relationships with internal audit and the Audit Committee are discussed in the following section on internal control.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements,
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements. 16 LOOKERS PLC REPOR T & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002
S TATEMENTS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(continued)
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control within the Group.
Key procedures within the internal control framework that have been established and are designed to provide
effective internal control include the following:
  clear definitions of the responsibilities throughout the Group to ensure that appropriate levels of authorisation
are required for decisions which have major implications;
  the issue of an internal control systems manual, an accounting manual, and a policies and procedures manual;
  comprehensive management reporting disciplines with the preparation of annual detailed budgets by all sectors
of the business. Actual results are reported against the approved budget at regular Board meetings and forecasts
are reviewed;
  an internal audit function, the scope of which covers a variety of operational and internal control matters
including compliance with the Group's specified standards.
Risk Management
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has remained
in place throughout the year and to the approval date of the annual report and accounts. That process is regularly
reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code
produced by the Turnbull working party. Procedures exist to meet the requirements for the system of internal
control determined by the Board. Whilst the Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for internal control it
believes strongly that senior management within the Group's operating businesses should also contribute in a
substantial way and this has been built into the process. Acquisitions in the year have been integrated into the
established Group risk management framework.
The whole process is subject to regular review. Reports on matters arising are received regularly by the Board and
the draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to being
approved by the Board. Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the
operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to management's and the Board's
attention.
The Group's system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee and Meetings
During the financial year, the Audit Committee, comprising the Non-Executive Directors and the Group Financial
Director, met at least twice a year with the external auditors attending by invitation. The Audit Committee has
specific terms of reference which deal with its authority and duties, and is chaired by Mr. Morris.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions throughout the
accounting year. Save for the exceptions below, the Company has complied throughout the accounting year ended
31st December 2002 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Mr. McKinney resigned on 15th January 2002. Mr. Ryan resigned on 19th July 2002 and was replaced by Mr.
Clyne. Mr. Mace was appointed in May 2002. Therefore, from May onwards, the majority of Non-Executive
Directors were independent (A3.2).
Whilst the Remuneration Committee did not consist exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors, from
May onwards the Non-Executive Directors were independent (B2.2). The Board considers that the choice of Non-
Executive Directors is appropriate to the needs of the Company. In January 2002 the roles of Chairman and Chief
Executive were separated from what was previously a dual appointment. Mr. Surgenor was appointed as Chief
Executive and Mr. Maguire remained as Chairman, the Chairman being responsible primarily for the running of the
Board and the Chief Executive for the day to day management of the Group's businesses.
During the financial year the Audit Committee comprised of two Non-Executive Directors, both of whom were
independent following the appointment of Mr. Mace, and one Executive Director. The Board considers this to be
appropriate to the requirements of the Company. The Code requires that the Audit Committee comprises at least
three directors, all Non-Executive and the majority of whom are independent. Therefore, throughout the year, not
all of the Audit Committee were Non-Executive but the majority were independent (D3.1).
All Directors retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company. Mr. Clyne does
not have a fixed period contract as recommended by the Code (A6.1), since the Board felt that this was more
appropriate to the circumstances prevailing at the time of his appointment. All remunerated appointments are now
made in accordance with the recommendations of the Code (A6.1). The service contract of Mr. Maguire expires
after two year's notice in writing. This service contract exceeds the recommended one year and there is no intention
to reduce this period (B1.7).