 LOOKERS PLC REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 17
S TATEMENTS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
for the year ended 31 December 2003
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent Auditors' report on page 25,
is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the
Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 26 to 46, the Company and the Group
have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments
and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Lookers plc website is the responsibility of the Directors. Legislation in the
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT OF APPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES IN THE COMBINED CODE
The Code establishes 14 Principles of Good Governance which are split into four areas described below.
Directors - The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which during the financial year under review
comprised six Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.  G.J. Morris and D. C. Mace are considered
to be independent Non-Executive Directors. All Directors are able to take independent professional advice in
furtherance of their duties if necessary. All Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the first opportunity after
their appointment and at least once every three years. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets every two months. Prior to meetings, all
Directors receive information on financial, business and corporate issues. The Board is responsible for overall Group
strategy, acquisition and disposal policy, approval of major capital expenditure and consideration of significant
financial matters. The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments. It also ensures that all Directors
receive appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as appropriate. 
The members of the Nomination Committee are F. S. Maguire, G. J. Morris and D. C. Mace. Throughout the
year to 31 December 2003 the Nomination Committee was chaired by G. J. Morris. F. S. Maguire was appointed
Chairman on 1 January 2004. 
G.J. Morris who is considered by the Board to be independent, is the senior independent Director. 
Directors' Remuneration - The Remuneration Committee, chaired by D.C. Mace, measures the performance of the
Executive Directors as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration including bonuses, long term incentive
plans and awards of share options. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by negotiation
and takes account of the time spent on Company matters.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 19 to 24 and
includes details of Directors' incentive payments and the related performance criteria.
Relations with Shareholders - The Company encourages two way communication with its institutional
shareholders. All shareholders have at least twenty working days' notice of the Annual General Meeting, at which
all Executive Directors and Chairmen of Committees are available to answer questions.
Accountability and Audit - The Board uses the Reviews of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director
and the Directors' Report to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and
prospects. The Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements are described above. The Directors'
relationships with internal audit and the Audit Committee are discussed in the following section on internal control.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements,
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements. 18 LOOKERS PLC REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
S TATEMENTS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
for the year ended 31 December 2003 (continued)
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control within the Group.
Key procedures within the internal control framework that have been established and are designed to provide
effective internal control include the following:
  clear definitions of the responsibilities throughout the Group to ensure that appropriate levels of authorisation
are required for decisions which have major implications;
  the issue of an internal control systems manual, an accounting manual, and a policies and procedures manual;
  comprehensive management reporting disciplines with the preparation of annual detailed budgets by all sectors
of the business. Actual results are reported against the approved budget at regular Board meetings and forecasts
are reviewed;
  an internal audit function, the scope of which covers a variety of operational and internal control matters
including compliance with the Group's specified standards.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has remained
in place throughout the year and to the approval date of the annual report and accounts. That process is regularly
reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code
produced by the Turnbull working party. Procedures exist to meet the requirements for the system of internal
control determined by the Board. The Directors regularly review the risks which the Group is exposed to as well as
the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal controls including financial, operational, risk management
and compliance controls. Whilst the Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for internal control and for
monitoring the effectiveness of internal control procedures, it believes strongly that senior management within the
Group's operating businesses should also contribute in a substantial way and this has been built into the process.
Acquisitions in the year have been integrated into the established Group risk management framework.
The whole process is subject to regular review. Reports on matters arising are received regularly by the Board and
the draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness were reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to
being approved by the Board. Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk management further
into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to management's and the
Board's attention.
The Group's system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee and Meetings
The Audit Committee, comprising Non-Executive Directors and the Finance Director, meet at least three times a
year with the external auditors attending by invitation. The Audit Committee has specific terms of reference which
deal with its authority and duties, and is chaired by G. J. Morris.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions throughout the
accounting year. Save for the exceptions below, the Company has complied throughout the accounting year ended
31 December 2003 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
During the financial year the Audit Committee comprised the Non-Executive Directors, two of whom were
independent and one Executive Director.  The Board considers this to be appropriate to the requirements of the
Company because the Finance Director has relevant specialist experience. The Code requires that the Audit
Committee comprises at least three directors, all Non-Executive and the majority of whom are independent (D3.1).
Therefore, throughout the year, not all of the Audit Committee were Non-Executive and two of its members were
not independent.
All Directors retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company. N. Clyne does
not have a fixed period contract as recommended by the Code (A6.1), since the Board felt that this was more
appropriate to the circumstances prevailing at the time of his appointment. All remunerated appointments are now
made in accordance with the recommendations of the Code (A6.1). 
The Group support the principles of the revised Combined Code issued in July 2003 and are taking steps to
ensure satisfactory compliance by 31 December 2004.