 18 lorien plc
corporate governance
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Company has considered the principles and recommendations
of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
(the Combined Code ), issued by the Financial Reporting Council
in July 2003. The Company considers that it has substantially complied
with the principles of the Code. The Board is accountable to the
Group's shareholders and this statement describes how the
relevant principles of governance are applied to the Group.
Combined Code
The Board considers that the Group has complied throughout the
year with the principles of the revised Combined Code with the
following exceptions:
  The inclusion of Bert Morris on the Audit Committee does not
comply with the revised Combined Code, which requires the 
Audit Committee to be wholly comprised of independent non-
executive directors.
  The inclusion of Bert Morris on the Remuneration Committee 
does not comply with the revised Combined Code, which 
requires the Remuneration Committee to be wholly comprised
of independent non-executive directors.
  The Company has not appointed a separate Nominations 
Commitee 
  The committees had a majority of non-executive directors.
The inclusion of Bert Morris, an executive director, was 
considered appropriate due to the small size of the Group 
and of the Board.
The Board
The Group is centralised in its management, decision making and
financial control. The Board meets monthly and reviews the financial
results of all Group companies. All directors have full and timely
access to information. Executive directors are required to comment
on all areas where performance departs from current expectations.
A detailed annual budget is prepared for each operation in conjunction
with local management, which is then compared in detail with the
monthly management accounts. Any significant variances are discussed
at Board level and appropriate action taken. The Chairman is
responsible for ensuring that all directors are properly briefed on
issues arising at Board meetings. There is a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for the Board's decision and a procedure for
directors to take independent professional advice in the course 
of their duties, if considered appropriate, at the Group's expense.
Details of the Chairman's professional commitments are included in
his biography. The Chairman does perform a limited number of other
roles but the Board is satisfied that these are not such so as to interfere
with the performance of his duties as Chairman of the Company.
Two of the five directors are non-executive, both of whom are
independent of the management of Lorien. Between them, the
directors bring experience and independent judgement on strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct. The Board considers
it has a reasonable balance between executive and non-executive
directors, and has reviewed the availability of the non-executive
directors and considers that each of them is able to devote the
agreed amount of time to the business of the Company. Neither
non-executive director:
  has been an employee of the Group within the last five years;
  has, or has had within the last three years, a material business 
relationship with the Group;
  receives remuneration other than a director's fee;
  has close family ties with any of the Group's advisors,
directors or senior employees;
  holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other 
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies; or
  represents a significant shareholder.
  has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring
that Board procedures are followed and all directors have access
to his advice and services.
Performance evaluation
The revised Combined Code includes a main principle that the
Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation
of its own performance and that of its committees and individual
directors. The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of its own
performance and that of its committees and individual directors
and therefore considers that it adheres fully to the objectives of
the revised Combined Code on this issue.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee as set out on pages 12 and 13, is chaired by
John Wallace, who it is considered has recent, relevant experience
including senior roles with National Westminster Bank Group.
The Committee reviews the annual accounts, the interim and
preliminary announcements and compliance with accounting
standards. In addition, it reviews the performance of Group and
divisional management and internal financial controls. Duties also
include a responsibility to keep under review the scope and
results of the audit and its cost effectiveness and the independence
and objectivity of the external auditor. The Committee also makes
recommendations on the appointment, removal and terms of
engagement of the external auditors. The remuneration and
terms of engagement of the external auditors are approved 
by the Committee. The Committee reviews annually its terms 
of reference and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board
any changes required as a result of such review. lorien plc 19
The Committee's terms of reference are available from the
Company Secretary.The Group Finance Director and external
auditors attend meetings of the Committee. The Chairman of
the Committee is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer
questions from the investors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Admiral Sir Brian
Brown. Its composition is set out on pages 12 and 13. It is responsible
for establishing the salary and other remuneration of the executive
directors and senior management within the Group. Decisions
relating to the remuneration of non-executive directors are taken
by the full Board. No director participates in any decision relating
to his own salary. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions
from the investors.
The Remuneration Committee also carries out the functions of 
a Nominations Committee. The Committee considers new Board
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. Proposals
by the Committee are considered and determined by the full Board.
Appropriate training is available for all new directors. All directors
are required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals
of no more than three years. All new directors are required to
seek re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their
appointment.
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee
meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows:
Scheduled AuditRemuneration
Board Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings
Bert Morris 12 (12) 2 (2) 4 (4)
Ian Brookes 12 (12) -  (2) -  (4)
Chris Hinton 12 (12) 2 (2) 1 (4)
John Wallace 12 (12) 2 (2) 4 (4)
Admiral Sir Brian Brown 11 (12) 2 (2) 4 (4)
(Figures in brackets indicate total number of scheduled meetings in the year) 
Nominations Committee
The Board does not consider, due to the size of the Company,
that a separate Nominations Committee is necessary or is justified.
The Board reviews this position annually.
Internal controls
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of
internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Company
has complied with the internal control provisions of the Combined
Code during the year. There is a continual process of review for 
all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls
and risk management. However, such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal control is defined in the Combined Code as all controls,
including financial, operational and compliance and risk management.
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal
financial controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure
proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial
information used within the business and for publication is accurate
and reliable. The key features of the Group's system of internal
financial control which have been established are as follows:
  The maintenance of strong financial controls and the production
of accurate and timely financial management information.
  The identification and appraisal of risk is carried out by the 
annual process of preparing business plans and detailed budgets.
Detailed budgeting, forecasting and reporting of trading results,
balance sheets and financial ratios with regular review by 
management of variances from targeted performance levels 
throughout the year.
  The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down 
authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
  Clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal 
and authorisation.
  A Group accounting manual which sets out Group accounting 
and control policies.
Operational and compliance controls and risk management are
part of the Group's basis of operation.
The Board has established key principles of Corporate
Governance for the Group.
  Identification of business risk
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has
been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The process 
is reviewed regularly by the Board.
  Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through 
high recruitment standards and subsequent training. High quality
personnel are seen as an essential part of the control 
environment and the standards with which they are expected 
to comply are communicated via the management structure.
  Group accounting manual
A Group accounting manual has been implemented which 
formalises Group accounting and control policies. It sets out 
the high priority given by the Board to internal financial 
controls and the standards of compliance expected, along with 
the details of specific policies to be followed. It is the intention 
of the Board that the manual will be kept under review to 
reflect the changing business environment and the resulting 
impact on the Group's accounting and control procedures.