 Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate
governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the degree of the Company's
compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance.
Following publication of the Higgs Review - The Role and Effectiveness of Non-executive Directors and the Smith Report - Combined Code
Guidance for Audit Committees in January 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued the new Combined Code on 23 July 2003, which
comes into effect for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. The principles and provisions of the new Code have been
considered by the Board. The Board will continue to review its practices in the light of the new Code. 
The Company moved from a full listing on the Stock Exchange to a listing on AIM on 26 September 2003, and as such the Company is not
covered by the Listing Rules. Nevertheless, in the interests of providing maximum transparency to shareholders, the Board complies with
those provisions of the Combined Code it deems relevant, ensuring that embedded risk controls are in place.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions at this year's AGM to be held
on 19 April 2004.
The Board 
The Board currently comprises the independent Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and three
other independent Non-executive Directors. Short biographies of each of the Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set
out on pages 12 and 13. There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company, the Chairman being responsible for running
the Board and the Chief Executive for implementing Group strategy. John Holmes has been nominated as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the decision-making process. The Board is responsible to shareholders
for the proper management of the Group. A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out above and
a statement on going concern is given on page 11.
The Board considers that, although Gregor Wedell is deemed not to be independent under the definition of independence in the new Code,
as there are no relationships or circumstances that might affect his judgement; he is independent not withstanding the fact that he represents
LTG Holding GmbH, a significant shareholder and has close family ties with the Company's Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The need for Director training is regularly assessed by the Company.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice as required.
The Board meets formally every month, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining
major acquisition possibilities and reporting to shareholders. The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the
strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully considered. The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Board papers
being sent out several days prior to the meeting. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. These include the approval of financial statements,
acquisitions and disposals, material agreements, non-recurring projects, major capital expenditures, and strategic plans. It delegates
responsibility to the Board Committees detailed below.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is John Holmes. It is responsible for proposing
candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board. In appropriate cases, recruitment
consultants will be used to assist the process. All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts
Corporate governance
LTG Technologies PLC
Report and Accounts 2003
16
Statement of Directors' responsibilities in respect
of the accounts Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other members are John Holmes and Alistair Rae. It is responsible
for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's framework of Executive remuneration and
its cost. The Remuneration Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors,
including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The Board itself determines the remuneration
of the Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee will be advised as necessary by a firm of remuneration consultants.
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration
Report on pages 18 to 20. The report has been prepared by the Board following the provisions in Schedule B to the Combined Code.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is John Holmes. It meets not less than two times annually.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the
Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and annual accounts on or before their
submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit
work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders. The Chairman's Statement and Chief Executive's Review provide
a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations
after the Group's preliminary announcement of the year-end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. Details of resolutions
to be proposed at the AGM on 19 April 2004 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting on page 47.
Risk and internal controls
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control. Internal control systems are designed
to meet the particular needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective
internal controls are as follows:
  Management structure - The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved
for decision by the Board. Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs;
  Quality and integrity of personnel - The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and
subsequent training courses. High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of internal control;
  Identification of business risks - The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining
the appropriate course of action to manage those risks;
  Budgetary processes - The Board is responsible for Group strategy, approving budgets and plans, approving acquisitions or disposals and
determining treasury and dividend policy. Each year the Board approves the annual budget and strategic plan. Key risk areas are identified;
  Monitoring and reporting performance - Monthly results, including variances from plans and prior year, together with updated forecasts
for current performance for up to 24 months are reported to the Board. These reports cover sales, profits and losses, cash flows, capital
expenditure and balance sheets. Key risk areas are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year
through the monthly reporting process to the Board;
  Investment appraisal - Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified
levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board. Reviews are carried out after the capital expenditure or acquisition
is complete, and for some projects, during the project or acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; major overruns are investigated.
Proposals for research and development programmes beyond specified limits are considered by the Board. Due diligence work is carried
out if a business is to be acquired; and
  Audit Committee - The Audit Committee monitors the controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment.
It considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. It reviews the effectiveness
of the system of internal financial control as it operates during the year and reports conclusions to the Board.
Retirement and appointment of Directors
Gregor Wedell, appointed Director on 17 March 2003, retires from the Board at the AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Dr Franz Wimpffen and John Holmes retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
Corporate governance LTG Technologies PLC
Report and Accounts 2003
17
Corporate governance