 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Corporate governance
The directors acknowledge the importance of the Principles set out in the Combined Code, as issued in revised form in 2003 by the Financial
Reporting Council, and have put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for the Company, as follows:
The Board
Board composition
Prior to 16 February 2004, the Board comprised an independent non-executive Chairman, Mr Legg, and two independent non-executive
directors, Mr Hoad and Mr Tate. On 16 February 2004, Mr Hutchings was appointed Executive Chairman and on 23 February 2004 Mr Mulhall
became an executive director. Mr Legg ceased to be Chairman and became the senior of three independent non-executive directors.
On 17 January 2005, Mr Legg resigned from the Board and Mr Hoad succeeded him as senior non-executive director.
Both Mr Hutchings and Mr Mulhall are engaged full-time on the Company's business and have no outside interests that conflict with their
responsibilities to the Company. Mr Hutchings is a governor of the Museum of London. Mr Mulhall is non-executive chairman of RingProp plc,
an AIM listed company. All non-executive directors are independent.
How the Board operates
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for strategy, performance and the framework of internal controls. The Board has a formal schedule
of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. Responsibility for the day-to-day operational management of Gall Thomson Environmental
Limited is delegated to the directors of that company. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely
information. The Company Secretary distributes briefing papers to all directors in advance of Board meetings. All directors have access to the
advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary, which is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a
whole. In addition, procedures are in place to enable the directors to obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties,
if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board meetings
During the year ended 31 December 2005, there were five meetings of the Board, including one meeting held by the executive directors in
committee. Participation in the meetings was as follows: Mr Hoad, four meetings; Mr Tate, four meetings; Mr Hutchings, five meetings; Mr Mulhall,
five meetings.
Evaluation of performance and re-election of directors
In view of the Board's expectation that its size and composition would soon change as the result of an acquisition, a formal internal evaluation
of the Board was not carried out during the period under review. A procedure for carrying out such reviews in future years has been
discussed and approved.
All directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at Annual General Meetings at a maximum interval of three years. The Articles of
Association provide that directors appointed by the Board will be subject to re-election at the first AGM thereafter.
Remuneration
A report on directors' remuneration is included on pages 13 to 14.
Board committees
The Board has formed an Audit and Corporate Governance Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, each
comprised of all independent, non-executive directors. The existence of the committees ensures that time is allocated on a formal basis to
consider relevant issues.
Audit and Corporate Governance Committee
The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee meets at least twice a year and considers the appointment and fees of the external auditors
and discusses the scope of the audit and its findings. The Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with accounting and legal
requirements and for reviewing the annual and interim financial statements. This committee is chaired by Mr Hoad.
During the year ended 31 December 2005 the Committee held two meetings. Both non-executive directors attended both meetings. Annual Report and Accounts 2005  11
The Audit Committee also reviews any non-audit services provided by the auditors. Such services have been, and are, limited to the provision
of tax compliance work and tax advice. The Committee considers that such services can be provided most efficiently and economically by the
same firm as that conducting the audit. The Committee is satisfied that the provision of such services does not in any way prejudice the
objectivity and independence of the auditors.
The Committee has not recommended the establishment of an internal audit function, because during the year ended 31 December 2005 
the Group had only one active subsidiary (together with its subsidiary) outside London, whose operations are closely monitored by the
executive directors. However, following the acquisition of Schlegel, this policy will be kept under active review.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee considers and approves the remuneration and benefits (if any) of the directors. The Committee also determines
the remuneration of the directors of Gall Thomson Environmental Limited and of the service providers contracted to perform executive
functions for the Group.
The membership and work of the Committee during the year ended 31 December 2005 is described in detail in the directors' remuneration report 
on page 13.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee identifies and nominates candidates for the office of director of the Company. It meets as and when required and is
chaired by Mr Tate. The Committee did not meet during the year ended 31 December 2005.
Internal control
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of those
controls. The Board, including the executive directors, reviews the internal control framework on an ongoing basis.
Procedures have been developed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition and to maintain proper accounting records to
provide reliable financial information both for internal use and for publication. In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on
internal control, the procedures are regularly reviewed in the light of an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks
faced by the Company. The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and
financial statements. The procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority and there is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2006 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting on page 37.
The Company has set up a website www.lupuscapital.co.uk which shareholders, investors and other interested parties may access.
The website permits users to download copies of published financial reports, press releases and Stock Exchange announcements.
Statement by directors on compliance with the provisions of the combined code
The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of The Combined Code throughout the year to 31 December 2005, except 
as follows:
The Board, with only two executive directors, having carefully considered the position, structure and strategy of the Group, believes that 
the nature of the Group with its focus on identifying, acquiring and reinvigorating businesses makes it appropriate for the role of chairman 
to carry executive responsibility.
A formal internal evaluation of Board performance was not carried out during the year ended 31 December 2005. 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Corporate governance
Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting standards as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the
directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.