 Lupus Capital plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
17
Corporate governance
The directors acknowledge the importance of the Principles set out in the Combined Code, as issued in revised form in 2006 by the Financial
Reporting Council, and have put in place a framework for corporate governance which they believe is appropriate for the Company. 
The Company, being quoted on AIM, is not required to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code, but has chosen to make the
following voluntary disclosures: 
The Board 
Board composition 
The Board normally comprises two executive and three non-executive directors. 
During the year ended 31 December 2009 there were a number of changes to its personnel. Mr Hutchings left the Board on 30 June
2009. Mr Taylor and Mr Felton-Smith joined the Board on 30 June 2009. Mr Hoad left the Board on 29 July 2009. Mr Pike was appointed
a director and as non-executive Chairman on 23 November 2009. Mr Towers and Mr Tench joined the Board as non-executive directors
on 17 December 2009. Mr Towers is the senior non-executive director. 
Since 31 December 2009 there have been a number of further changes. Mr Taylor, Mr Jackson and Mr Tate stepped down from the Board
on 22 January 2010. Mr Eperjesi was appointed CEO on 22 February 2010. Mr Mulhall, who has served as an executive director since 
23 February 2004, will retire from the Board on 31 March 2010. 
Mr Eperjesi is engaged exclusively on the Company's business and has no outside interests that conflict with his responsibilities to the
Company. All non-executive directors are independent. 
How the board operates 
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for strategy, performance and the framework of internal controls. The Board has a formal
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. Responsibility for the day-to-day operational management of Gall Thomson
Environmental Limited, the Schlegel companies and the LSS companies is delegated to the directors of those companies. To enable the
Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information. The Company Secretary distributes briefing papers
to all directors in advance of Board meetings. All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, which is
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The appointment
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. In addition, procedures are in place to enable the directors to
obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense. 
Board meetings 
During the year ended 31 December 2009, there were twenty-two meetings of directors. Participation in the meetings was as follows: 
Mr Hutchings, eight meetings;
Mr Hoad, ten meetings;
Mr Mulhall, eighteen meetings;
Mr Jackson, seventeen meetings (plus one meeting as a committee of one); 
Mr Tate, eighteen meetings;
Mr Taylor, eleven meetings;
Mr Felton-Smith, eight meetings;
Mr Pike, four meetings;
Mr Tench, one meeting.
Re-election of directors 
All directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at Annual General Meetings at a maximum interval of three years. The Articles of
Association provide that directors appointed by the Board will be subject to re-election at the first AGM thereafter. 
Remuneration 
A report on directors' remuneration is included on pages 20 to 21. 
Overview 01-05
Business Review 06-11
Corporate Information 12-21
Financial Information 22-66 Corporate governance continued
Lupus Capital plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
18
Board committees 
The Board has formed an Audit and Corporate Governance Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, each
comprised of all independent, non-executive directors. The existence of the committees ensures that time is allocated on a formal basis to
consider relevant issues. 
Audit and corporate governance committee 
The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee is made up of the non-executive directors. 
The executive directors also attend meetings of the Committee by invitation. The Committee considers the appointment and fees of the
external auditors and discusses the scope of the audit and its findings. The Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with
accounting and legal requirements and for reviewing the annual and interim financial statements. The Committee was chaired by Mr Hoad
and is now chaired by Mr Towers.
During the year ended 31 December 2009 the Committee held one meeting. Mr Hoad, Mr Tate and Mr Jackson attended the meeting. 
The Audit Committee also reviews any non-audit services provided by the auditors. Such services have been, and are, limited to the
provision of transaction support services and some tax compliance work and tax advice. The Committee is satisfied that the provision of
such services does not in any way prejudice the objectivity and independence of the auditor. Professional firms other than the auditors also
provide tax compliance work and tax advice.
Remuneration committee 
The Remuneration Committee considers and approves the remuneration and benefits (if any) of the directors. The Committee also
determines the remuneration of the directors of the Schlegel companies, of Gall Thomson, of the LSS companies and of the service
providers contracted to perform executive functions for the Group as well as long term share incentive and share option schemes for all
employees.
The membership and work of the Committee during the year ended 31 December 2009 is described in detail in the Directors'
Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 21. 
Nominations committee 
The Nominations Committee identifies and nominates candidates for the office of director of the Company. It meets as and when required
and was chaired by Mr Tate during 2009. The Committee met once during the year ended 31 December 2009 and was attended by 
Mr Tate, Mr Hoad and Mr Mulhall. In view of the large number of Board meetings during 2009 and the significant number of matters arising
that related to personnel changes, some business that would normally be conducted by this committee was carried out by the Board. 
The Committee is chaired by Mr Pike. Mr Pike would not chair the Committee or attend it if it were to consider the appointment of a
successor Chairman.
Internal control 
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of
those controls. The Board, including the executive directors, reviews the internal control framework on an ongoing basis.
Procedures have been developed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition of assets and to maintain proper accounting
records to provide reliable financial information both for internal use and for publication. In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull
Committee on internal control, the procedures are regularly reviewed in the light of an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the
significant risks faced by the Company. The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of the approval of the
annual report and financial statements. The procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Relations with shareholders 
Communications with shareholders are given high priority and there is a regular dialogue with institutional and other substantial
shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the Directors' Report.
The Company has set up a website www.lupuscapital.co.uk which shareholders, investors and other interested parties may access. 
The website permits users to download copies of published financial reports, press releases and Stock Exchange announcements.  Lupus Capital plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
19
Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union. The parent company financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in
business.
In so far as the directors are aware:
  there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware; and 
  the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information; and to
establish that the auditors are aware of that information. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation
in other jurisdictions.
Overview 01-05
Business Review 06-11
Corporate Information 12-21
Financial Information 22-66