 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
16 MACFARLANE GROUP PLC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
INTRODUCTION
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance
contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the
Combined Code ), which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority. (the Listing Rules .)
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Company has been in
compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance as it applies to companies with financial
years beginning before 1 November 2003, other than for a period of six
months when Sir J.M. Ward acted as Executive Chairman. The Company
supports the principles contained in the revised Combined Code as it will
apply for the current financial year and is taking steps to ensure that it is 
in a position to address the requirements.
The revised Combined Code includes more detailed requirements on 
the number of independent non-executive directors serving on the Board.
At the end of the year and following a number of director changes in
2003, the Macfarlane Group Board comprised the Chairman, three
executive directors and two non-executive directors, one of whom, M.
Clark, could not be viewed as independent given his previous executive
position on the Board. 
The Board announced at the end of last year its intention to address the
need for additional independent representation by the appointment of two
additional non-executive directors as soon as practicable. In the interim,
A.S. Hunter, the non-executive Chairman will remain on all Board
Committees until the two non-executive directors have been recruited.
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
This is a key priority for the Board, which is accountable to shareholders
for good corporate governance. A narrative statement on how the
Company has applied the principles of good corporate governance to
ensure compliance with the Combined Code contained in the Listing Rules
is set out on the following pages and, in connection with directors'
remuneration, in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 12 to 15.
DIRECTORS, BOARD MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors comprising
three executive and, currently, three non-executive directors. The directors'
biographies appear on page 8 and demonstrate a range of experience 
for the purposes of applying independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are considered
vital in Macfarlane Group. The Board is responsible to shareholders for
the management of the Group and a statement of the Directors'
Responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 18.
For many years the Company has separated the roles of the Chairman 
and Chief Executive. As the non-executive Chairman, Archie Hunter, and
previously Sir John Ward, is responsible for the running of the Board,
ensuring that all directors receive sufficient and relevant information on
financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings to allow the
directors to bring independent judgement to bear on all issues. As Chief
Executive, Peter Atkinson's responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the
Company's business and implementing the Group strategy. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at
least eight times a year and as necessary for any matters arising between
board meetings. The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy,
acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure
projects and consideration of significant financing matters. It monitors 
the exposure to key business risks and reviews the direction of individual
businesses, their annual budgets, progress towards achievement of those
budgets and capital expenditure programmes. At each meeting, the Board
considers reports from the Chairman, Archie Hunter, the Chief Executive,
Peter Atkinson, and the Finance Director, John Love.
The non-executive directors monitor the performance of the Company and
the executive management. They play a key role in the development of
Group policy and form a number of the Board Committees. The non-
executive directors are appointed for a specific term and their re-
appointment is not automatic. The Board has minuted its view that R.G.T.
Stenhouse is an independent non-executive director as defined by the
Combined Code.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for
ensuring that Board procedures are met. Directors are authorised to take,
at the Company's expense, independent professional advice on legal and
financial matters in furtherance of their duties as directors, subject to
certain limits and procedures. All directors, in accordance with the Code,
will submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once in every
three year period. 
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established a number of standing committees, each
operating within defined terms of reference. The principal committees 
are the Nominations Committee, the Audit Committee and the
Remuneration Committee.
A31288 Macfarlane text  16/4/04  12:26 pm  Page 16 BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
During 2004, the Board will conduct a formal evaluation of its own
performance and will document the basis of the evaluation in future
annual reports.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman and the non-
executive directors and makes recommendations to the Board on all new
board appointments, having regard to the balance and structure of the
Board. Its members meet routinely once each year, with other meetings 
as necessary. The Committee considers the extent of any training and
induction programmes required for newly appointed directors. 
The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors (including
the non-executive Chairman) and has specific terms of reference dealing
with its authority and duties. The Committee is chaired by Guy Stenhouse
and meets routinely four times a year, with other meetings as necessary
and minutes are circulated to all board members. The finance director,
internal auditors and external auditors attend such meetings by invitation
and provide reports as required by the Committee. At meetings attended
by the external auditors, part of the meeting is held between the
Committee and the external auditors in private, where appropriate. The
Committee reviews the monitoring of the adequacy of the Group's internal
controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and also makes
recommendations to the Board where it feels it is appropriate. The
Committee is also responsible for advising the Board on the appointment
of the external auditors and for considering the levels of fees for external
auditors including the split between audit and non-audit work.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three non-executive directors
and has specific terms of reference dealing with its authority and duties.
The Committee is currently chaired by Archie Hunter and meets routinely
twice each year, with other meetings as necessary and the minutes are
circulated to all board members. The Committee considers the
performance of executive directors as a prelude to determining their
annual remuneration, bonus awards and long-term incentive awards. 
The report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 
12 to 15.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. Detailed reviews
of the performance and financial position are included in the Operating
and Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 7. The Board uses this together with
the Chairman's Statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Directors' Report on
pages 9 to 11 to present its assessment of the Company's position and
prospects. 
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including
presentations by certain members of the Board after the Company's
preliminary announcement of the year-end results and the announcement
of the results at the half-year. The Board uses the Annual General Meeting
in May each year to communicate with private and institutional investors
and welcomes their attendance and participation. Details of the resolutions
to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the proxy
card accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts. In line with the
requirements of the Combined Code, the results of proxy votes are
disclosed at the Annual General Meeting and the Notice of Meeting 
is sent out more than 20 days in advance of the Meeting. 
INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by its
nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place 
in compliance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee - Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code. The process has
been in place for the full year under review and has continued up to the
date of approval of the annual report and accounts. The key elements of
this process are summarised as follows:
  The Board reviews the strategic direction of the Group and has primary
responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the Group
and developing appropriate strategies, actions and approaches to
manage those risks;
 A regular programme of risk assessments has been introduced where
the business risks, which impact the achievement of business objectives,
are evaluated and prioritised. This ensures that the Board and senior
management review and reflect upon the overall risk profile facing the
business and that all key risks receive the appropriate level of
management attention on an ongoing basis;
 A Group risk management policy has been developed to structure and
formalise the roles and responsibilities in managing risk throughout the
Group;
  Structured meetings are held between each business unit's management
team and the Group's Executive Directors. Financial performance and
the management of key business risks are discussed in detail. Actions,
responsibilities and targets are set and performance reviewed at
subsequent meetings. The outputs from this process and the underlying
process itself is regularly reviewed by the Board to develop and further
embed risk management and risk awareness throughout the Group. 
MACFARLANE GROUP PLC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 17
A31288 Macfarlane text  16/4/04  12:26 pm  Page 17