 44 Macro 4 plc
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained throughout the Group. It believes
that this is a fundamental part of discharging its responsibility for leading, controlling, protecting and growing the value of the
Company for its shareholders. This report shows how the principles laid out in the Combined Code on corporate governance have
been applied within the Group and should be read in conjunction with the Chairman's Statement, the Chief Executive Officer's
Report, the Operating and Financial Review and the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration.
The Board
The Board currently comprises three executive and three non-executive directors, who meet formally at least six times a year, and at
other times as necessary, to discuss a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision to cover the strategic and
operational issues of the Group. The Board has a wealth of commercial and professional experience, and is headed by the
independent non-executive Chairman, Bert Morris. Mr Morris works closely with the Chief Executive Officer, Ronnie Wilson,
who is responsible for the running of the Group's day to day business. Ronnie Wilson is joined on the Executive Board by Michael
Maddison, Chief Technical Officer and Alan Sloan, Chief Operations Officer. They have all been members of the Executive Board
for the entire financial year. Two other executive directors served for part of the financial year, John Levey who was responsible 
for the Group's US operations who resigned on 20 July 2002 and John Foster, who was the Finance Director who resigned on 
12 May 2003. On 14 May 2003 a Director of Finance was appointed to oversee the financial affairs of the Group; a formal
appointment will be made in due course.
The non-executive directors, Bert Morris, David Cowie and Peter Meader have been members of the Board for the entire financial
year. They were selected for their valuable knowledge and professional ability, and are all considered independent of management
and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with their professional judgement. They are
appointed for specific terms, their remuneration is agreed by the Executive Board, and they retire by rotation in line with the
Articles of Association.
The Company does not have a senior independent non-executive director, as recommended by the Combined Code. After careful
consideration, it was agreed that such an appointment was unnecessary, since all members of the non-executive board are equally
approachable for shareholders' questions and concerns. The Board is supplied with regular and appropriate management information
to enable it to make its decisions.
All the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures are complied with, and providing the directors with any additional information that they require on a timely basis, so 
that they are able to discharge their duties. The directors are also able to seek independent professional advice for the furtherance 
of their duties as necessary at the Company's expense and all new appointees are provided with appropriate training both following
appointment, and, as necessary thereafter.
All directors are required to retire by rotation and will seek re-election at least once every three years. Messrs Cowie and Morris will
retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election.
The Board Committees
The Board has three standing committees:
The Remuneration Committee - The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration and the terms and
conditions of service of the executive directors. It comprises all of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Bert Morris.
All the service agreements of the executive directors provide for a notice period by the Company of not more than twelve months,
with the exception of the contract of Ronnie Wilson, whose notice period is eighteen months. This is contrary to the Code's
recommendations, but the Remuneration Committee feel that it is appropriate in order to retain the services of an individual of
suitable calibre. The executive directors are required to give not less than six month's notice of termination. Further details of the
remuneration of the executive directors are set out in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration. 45 Macro 4 plc
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003
Audit Committee - The Audit Committee comprises all three non-executive directors, Peter Meader (Chairman), Bert Morris and
David Cowie. Other directors, members of staff and the external auditors are invited to attend as appropriate. The Committee meets
at least twice a year and is responsible for overseeing internal controls, financial reporting and compliance with regulatory matters.
It reports to the Board on the Company's full and half year results, having examined the accounting policies on which they are based
and ensured compliance with relevant accounting standards. In addition, it reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, and keeps the provision of non-audit services under review.
An internal audit function was put in place in the previous financial year, and its findings are reviewed by both the Audit Committee
and the Board.
Nominations Committee - The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on all new Board
appointments. It comprises Bert Morris (Chairman), David Cowie, Peter Meader and Ronnie Wilson.
Relations with shareholders
The Board considers good communication with shareholders a high priority. It maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders,
meeting investors and other interested organisations on an ad hoc basis, and also at the times of the announcement of the half and
full year results. There is regular communication with shareholders through the annual and interim reports. The Annual General
Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders. All shareholders are welcome
to visit the Company's website, where financial results and details of the Company's products, services and activities are published.
This year's Annual General Meeting will be held on 4 November 2003 the notice of which is on page 58 of this Annual Report.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Board has continued to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control
The Group has an internal control system in place, which is designed to protect the shareholders' investment by safeguarding the
assets of the Company and facilitating its efficient operation. It should be recognised that all controls are designed to minimise
rather than eliminate risk, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, being responsible for the Company's system of internal control, has conducted an annual review of the internal control
system of the Company, which covers financial controls, key operational and compliance controls and risk management. The key
elements of the Group's internal control system, which have been in operation during the whole of this financial year, are as follows:
Control environment - The Board is responsible for ensuring a satisfactory control environment exists within the Group and for
reviewing its effectiveness. There is a clear organisation structure in place and levels of authority are well defined. A significant
degree of autonomy is given to the subsidiaries of the Group, with responsibility for operational control delegated to local general
managers. Management guidelines and a comprehensive management reporting package are in place for all subsidiaries.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives - The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major risks
facing the Group and developing appropriate policies and procedures to manage them. It has identified the key risks faced by the
Group, and delegated responsibility for managing those risks to senior management. The effectiveness of these controls is reported
on an annual basis to the Board.
Major corporate information systems - The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting, financial reporting and forecasting system.
Each subsidiary is required to complete management accounts on a monthly basis which compare actual out turn with budget, and
these are reviewed at both executive and Board level meetings to ensure that variances and discrepencies are identified on a timely
basis. The Company reports to its shareholders at the half year and full year ends.
Main control procedures - There are a number of key control procedures in place which are reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
These cover the key risks faced by the Company and are predominantly of an operational and financial nature. 46 Macro 4 plc
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003
Corporate Governance
Monitoring systems used by the Board - The Group finance department consolidates and monitors the Group information monthly,
and a full financial review is presented before each plenary Board meeting, accompanied by relevant subsidiary and Group accounts.
All Group companies also compile forecasts of profits and cash flows reflecting their current expectations. These are also monitored
by the Board.
Internal audit - There is an internal audit function in place and its findings are reviewed by both the Audit Committee and 
the Board.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Board considers the social, environmental and ethical matters pertinent to the Company, and will review items of significance
where appropriate. The risk assessment procedures in place are designed to highlight any key areas of concern including health and
safety considerations, employee recruitment and retention and environmental issues, and controls put in place as necessary.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board considers that the Company is complying with the current areas of best practice as detailed in the Combined Code, other
than those detailed and explained above, namely:
A2.1 There is no senior independent non-executive director.
B1.7 The service contract of the Chief Executive Officer is for a term of eighteen months, which is in excess of the Combined
Code requirement of a maximum of twelve months.
The Board is aware of the new Combined Code issued post year end, on 23 July 2003, and will make comments on this in the next
Annual Report.