 14 Maelor plc annual report and financial statements 2007
Compliance with the Combined Code
The rules of the Alternative Investment Market (AiM) do not compel the Company to comply with the Combined Code (the Code). 
Nevertheless, the Company fully endorses both the spirit and principles of the Code and seeks to comply wherever possible, whilst taking 
account of both its own size and its resources. Precisely how the Company has applied these principles is set out in the following statement.
Board of Directors
The Board meets at regular intervals, normally no less than nine times a year. The Company is committed to maintaining a balance  
of Executive and Non-executive Directors and the Board consists of six members, three are Executive Directors, the remaining three, 
one of whom is Chairman, are Independent Non-executive Directors. The Board believes that, given its size and complexity, it is not 
appropriate to specify a Senior Independent Director.
All Non-executive Directors are members of the Audit, AiM Compliance and Remuneration Committees. Their biographies on page 10 
illustrate their relevant corporate and industry experience.
Given the Company's limited resources and manpower, there is no separate Nominations Committee. However, any new appointments 
at Board level are considered and approved by the full Board. A detailed introduction to the activities of the Company is given to any new 
appointee who is also provided with any appropriate training deemed necessary. The Company Secretary, to whom all Directors have full 
access, attends all Board and Committee meetings.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, chaired by J H Gregory, who took over from P Murray on 4 May 2007, meets at least twice a year. The Finance Director 
is generally in attendance at those meetings and also acts as secretary to the Committee. An invitation is extended to the auditor to attend 
meetings of the Committee in order to discuss related matters. On a formal basis, the Committee reviews with the auditor those reports 
to be issued by the auditor to the Directors.
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditor's independence each year which includes:
  a review of the non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees;
   discussion with the auditor of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence;
   a review of the auditor's own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, 
including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
  obtaining written confirmation from the auditor that, in its professional judgement, it is independent.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in Note 3 
to the financial statements.
corporate governance
_MAE_back.indd   4 03/08/2007   09:59:30  Maelor plc annual report and financial statements 2007 15
AiM Compliance Committee
The Company has an obligation to comply with the London Stock Exchange Rules for Companies. Rule 31 requires Maelor to:
  have in place sufficient procedures, resources and controls to enable its compliance with the AiM Rules for Companies (rules);
  seek advice from its nominated adviser regarding its compliance with these rules whenever appropriate and take that advice into account;
   provide its nominated adviser with any information it requests in order for that nominated adviser to carry out its responsibilities under 
these rules and the AiM Rules for Nominated Advisers;
  ensure that each of its Directors accepts full responsibility, collectively and individually, for its compliance with these rules; and
   ensure that each Director discloses without delay all information which it needs in order to comply with rule 17 insofar as that information 
is known to the Director or could with reasonable diligence be ascertained by the Director.
In order to ensure that these obligations are being discharged, the Board has established a committee of the Board (the AiM Compliance 
Committee), chaired by H G McMillan, the Non-executive Chairman of the Company.
Having reviewed relevant Board papers and met with the Company's Executive Board and the nominated adviser to ensure that such is the 
case, the AiM Compliance Committee is satisfied that the Company's obligations under AiM rule 31 have been satisfied during the period 
under review.
Internal control
At the present time, given the aforementioned limitations imposed by manpower and resources, there is no internal audit function. The Board 
is responsible for the Company's system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives; it can therefore only provide a reasonable and not an absolute assurance against material misstatements or losses.
Proper briefing of all Directors at Board meetings is considered an important issue, and all Board papers are distributed in advance of those 
meetings; meetings are either adjourned or decisions deferred on occasions when the Board seeks the provision of further information upon 
which to base its decisions. There also exists a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
During the year the Directors have reviewed and are satisfied with the adequacy of the Group's internal financial controls. These controls 
include the following:
  a comprehensive annual budgetary process, reviewed and approved by the Board; and
   the monitoring of actual results against budget, no greater than at monthly intervals, together with the revisiting of forecasts whenever 
it is deemed appropriate.
Using the guidance on internal controls contained in the Combined Code as a benchmark, the Group continues to develop its review 
procedures of all other aspects of internal control, including operational and compliance issues and risk management.
_MAE_back.indd   5 03/08/2007   09:59:31 16 Maelor plc annual report and financial statements 2007
Principal risks and uncertainties
Maelor's business is influenced by a range of factors, some of which may be beyond the control of the Group and its Board. The risk factors 
set out below are regularly reviewed by the Board in the course of operating its business and are considered carefully. 
There may be other risks which the Group is not aware of, which are not deemed to be material but turn out to be material.
   Adverse information about one or more of Maelor's products is received by the Group's customer base, with a negative impact 
on demand for its products.
In the event of the Group becoming aware of any information relating to severe unexpected effects of any of Maelor's products, it would 
immediately take steps to fully investigate these. In accordance with the responsibilities placed upon the Group by the Medicines and Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency, Maelor would immediately notify its customers and/or withdraw those products from sale, as appropriate. Where 
these were proven to be false or ill-founded, Maelor would consider issuing information to its customers communicating the facts to them. 
  Maelor experiences a significant increase in the cost of producing its product.
In the event of a significant increase in the cost of producing one or more of its products Maelor would seek alternative sources of supply 
at the earliest opportunity to mitigate the impact on its profitability.
  The Group is unable to fulfil its commitments to supply its products, with adverse consequences for its customers.
Maelor has obligations under some of its key contracts to guarantee the supply of its products. The Group safeguards its ability to meet these 
obligations, by closely managing its relationships with its suppliers, as well as continuously reviewing its stock levels to ensure that these are 
adequate, while at the same time properly controlled.
  A product liability or similar lawsuit is issued against Maelor, resulting in substantial financial penalties.
Maelor is confident that the robustness of the clinical trials process prior to the launch of its products minimises the risk of claims against 
the Group as a result of its products. The Group also continuously reviews the production quality of its products, to ensure that this is consistently 
high. Were a claim to be lodged against the Group in respect of its products, Maelor believes that its product liability insurance would 
indemnify it in the majority of cases. 
Communication with shareholders
The Board has a strong commitment to the maintenance of good investor relations and seeks, wherever possible, to build a relationship 
of mutual understanding with both its institutional and private investors.
Corporate social responsibility
Maelor takes its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) seriously and continues to recycle as much of its waste as possible.
Going concern
The Board believes that Maelor has sufficient working capital to see the Company through to profit. The Board will continue to monitor the 
progress of the acquisition, development and launch of new products and the financial position in order to ensure that the Group continues 
to have sufficient funding to continue in business. For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. 
corporate governance continued
_MAE_back.indd   6 03/08/2007   09:59:31