 20 MANGANESE BRONZE HOLDINGS PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
1 Corporate governance
Except for the matters listed at the end of this report, the Group has been in compliance with the Principles of Good
Corporate Governance, Code of Best Practice and Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code on
Corporate Governance, appended to The Listing Rules as issued by the Financial Services Authority (Combined Code )
throughout the year ended 31 July 2003.This statement describes how the principles of good governance and the provisions
of the Combined Code are applied by the Group.
The Group has long-established risk management procedures in all critical areas of the business. Monitoring of compliance 
is through a combination of self-assessment, internal and external audits by the Group's management and advisers.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Company's system of internal control, which is designed to
manage rather than eliminate business risks and which provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
mis-statement or loss.
2Statement of directors' responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the financial year end and of the profit or loss of the
Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to:
  select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985.They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are required to prepare the financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take
whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purposes of enabling them to give
their audit report.
The directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
3 Going concern
The directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have access to adequate resources to continue in operation for
the foreseeable future. For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements. 4 The Board
As at 24 September 2003, the date of signing these financial statements, the Board comprises two executive directors and 
three independent non-executive directors, who include the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman, who is the senior
independent non-executive.All directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.The brief biographies of the Board members shown on page 10
demonstrate the wide range of skills, commercial and professional experience that they bring to the Board.
The Board is responsible for overseeing strategic, financial, operational, compliance issues and reporting to shareholders where
appropriate.The Board is also responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position 
and prospects, achieved by complying with non-mandatory statements and new accounting standards.
The Board now meets formally at least 12 times a year.This year the Board met 16 times. Full access is given to the directors
to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow the directors properly to fulfil their responsibilities. Board papers are
usually distributed one week in advance of meetings and decisions may be deferred if directors require further information to be
made available to them.The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness of the information given to it.
All directors have access to independent professional advice as and when required.The Company also ensures appropriate
training as and when necessary.
5 Board committees
In furtherance of the principles of corporate governance the Board has appointed the following committees, each of which
has formal terms of reference.The Board aims to have the terms of reference of each committee reviewed to ensure utmost
compliance with the newly amended Combined Code, due to come into force on 1 November 2003.The membership of the
committees is shown on page 10.
6 Audit Committee
This committee is chaired by Tim Melville-Ross and meets at least twice a year. Meetings are attended by the Chief
Executive and the Group Finance Director, and representatives of the auditors are in attendance as required.The committee
assists the Board in the discharge of its duties concerning the announcements of results, the preparation of the Annual Report
and Financial Statements and the maintenance of proper internal controls; it reviews the scope and planning of the audit and
the auditors' findings, and considers Group accounting policies and the compliance of those policies with applicable legal and
accounting standards.
7Remuneration and Nominations Committee
The Remuneration and Nominations Committee, also chaired by Tim Melville-Ross, normally meets three or four times 
a year and additionally whenever required and is responsible for:
  setting the Group's overall remuneration policy and determining the remuneration and other benefits of the executive
directors and monitors the remuneration of managing directors of Divisions within the Group; and
  formulating and reviewing proposals for the appointment of directors and making recommendations thereon to the
Board.Any director appointed during the year is required under the Company's Articles of Association to retire and seek
re-appointment by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. It is also the practice of the Company that one
third of the directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Appointments remain the responsibility of the Nominations Committee.To fulfil its duties the Nominations Committee
retains the services of external consultants as necessary.
MANGANESE BRONZE HOLDINGS PLC 21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 8Relationships with shareholders
The directors recognise the importance of dialogue with investors. Meetings with certain institutional investors are arranged
regularly and we are always ready to answer questions from shareholders.
In general meetings of the Company, proxy votes received are disclosed to those attending the meeting after the votes of those
present have been dealt with by a show of hands. It has been the practice of the Company for many years to give at least 21
working days' notice of the Annual General Meeting and for the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Board members to be
present to answer questions relating to their responsibilities, the developments and strategy of the Company.
9 Internal controls
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and have put in place an organisational structure and
framework of controls which is periodically reviewed for its effectiveness.The key procedures within the Group's system of
internal control are as follows:
  there is a comprehensive budgeting system with the annual budget being approved by the Board.Actual results and
updated forecasts are prepared regularly and compared against budget. Cash flows are controlled in comparison with
budget and forecast;
  the annual capital investment budget is approved by the Board together with significant individual items prior to
commitment;
  each operating unit is required to comply with defined policies and procedures and authorisation levels are clearly defined
and communicated. Regular internal financial control reviews and investigations are carried out by Group staff and
followed up by management;
  the maintenance of a small, experienced Group finance function which monitors the financial performance of operating
companies and divisions through analysis of regular financial and management reports together with regular direct contact
with operating division management. Consolidated reports and independent commentaries are prepared and submitted to
the Board for review at Board meetings. In addition, interim reports are issued regarding cash and working capital;
  maintenance of local divisional boards, enabling the Board to delegate appropriate levels of authority to a small number 
of divisional company directors and managers, all of whom are accountable to the Board; and
  bi-annual review of the key risks facing the Group and its businesses and key mitigating actions.
Operations throughout the Group are subject to the overall Group internal control framework, but such a system can provide
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.The directors confirm that they have carried
out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls as operated during the year ended 31 July 2003 and will
continue to review controls at least annually and more frequently should the need arise.
10 Compliance
In addition to the Principles of Good Governance the Combined Code also contains a Code of Best Practice which contains
some 45 provisions.The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all these provisions throughout the financial
year except:
 provision A.6.1 as the non-executive directors were not appointed for a fixed term but on a six-monthly rolling basis,
however, they are subject to re-election at least every three years; and
 provision B.2.2 as the former Chairman of the Group was the former Chief Executive and was therefore not considered
independent. He was also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.The membership of the rest of the committee
comprised at least two independent non-executive directors.The former Chairman was not present for discussions
concerning his own remuneration.
By order of the Board
Mark Fryer 
Company Secretary
1 October 2003
22 MANGANESE BRONZE HOLDINGS PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT