 Audit Committee
Chairman's overview
Jeremy Darroch
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 52
Last year I advised that we would work with the Board to 
review any changes to the risk profile and support the Board 
debate on risk tolerance and appetite. The Committee 
remains satisfied that the Board maintains sound risk 
management and internal controls.
As a committee we are also keen to ensure key 
representatives of the business have fully considered the risks 
their business areas face, that these risks are being managed 
and do not exceed the Board's appetite or tolerance levels.
We focus on the risk profiles for each business unit and 
review what actions they are taking or processes they have in 
place to manage or mitigate their risk. Assurance is provided 
through executive update presentations at each Audit 
Committee meeting. During 2011/12 the Committee received 
presentations from the directors of Business Continuity,  
Plan A, General Merchandise Ethical Sourcing, International 
Business Development and Data Security. Further information 
on the presentations is provided on the next page.
The presentations facilitate real engagement between 
Committee members and the business unit directors. 
Feedback from the business continues to be positive with 
recognition of the value this channel provides and the 
experience the Committee shares.
External auditor 
Key to giving us confidence in the Group's approach to 
controls and risk is the effectiveness of our external auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Their effectiveness enables  
us to recommend their reappointment for 2012/13. We judge 
them on the quality of their audit findings, management's 
response and stakeholder feedback. Their independence  
is displayed through their challenge to management. Their 
audit and non-audit fees are set and reviewed each year  
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee
The Board is satisfied that Jeremy Darroch and Jan du Plessis 
have recent and relevant financial experience.
Who is on our Committee?
From
Audit 
Committee
Name of Director A B
Jeremy Darroch  
(Committee Chairman) 1 Sept 2006 6 6
Sir David Michels
1
(retired 29 Feb 2012) 4 3
Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 6 6
Steven Holliday 15 July 2004 6 6
Louise Patten
2
(retired 13 July 2011) 1 0
Jan du Plessis
3
1 Nov 2008 6 5
A = Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended
B = Number of meetings the director actually attended
1) Sir David Michels was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 7 September 
2011 due to personal commitments. 
2) Louise Patten was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 16 May 2011  
due to personal commitments. 
3) Jan du Plessis was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 2 November 2011 
due to overseas business commitments with Rio Tinto.
What has the Committee done during the year?
The Committee made progress on their action points during 
the 2011/12 financial year, with the exception of a review of 
internal audit effectiveness, which was impacted by several 
changes within the internal audit team:
 - The Committee composition was reviewed along with 
Board and other Committee composition. Following the 
retirement of Sir David Michels, the Committee comprises 
four members. The Audit Committee is fully independent 
and contains what we believe to be the right balance of 
knowledge, skill and experience to support the business in 
achieving its plan;
 - The Company has made good progress on risk during the 
year, resulting in better process, understanding and 
awareness combined with a greater engagement right 
across the business. The debate on risk, risk tolerance and 
risk appetite will continue to be a focus for the Board and 
for the Committee during the next year;
 - An anti-bribery policy has been developed and 
implemented following the Bribery Act coming into force. 
Its introduction was supported by a training programme 
containing a short video and online training module. Gift 
registers have been introduced to ensure transparency. 
These will be managed by each department and reviewed 
annually by Internal Audit, with any notable items 
highlighted to the Committee;
 - The Committee reviewed Data Security and Data 
Management. The Code of Ethics is being updated to 
reflect any changes to the policy or law, including the 
Bribery Act;
 - The Committee reviewed the Company's ongoing 
discussions with the FRPP .
 - Personnel changes within the Audit team has led to the 
deferral of our review of Internal Audit effectiveness in line 
with the Chartered Institute of Internal Audit requirements. 
However, we intend to complete this during 2012/13.
 - As a Committee we have continued to enhance our 
understanding of key business areas receiving 
presentations on key risks from a broad spectrum of the 
business activities; and
 - The Committees were independently reviewed by Ffion 
Hague of Independent Board Evaluation. 
What is the action plan for 2012/13?
Looking ahead the Committee believes it is important to 
remain focused on the audit, assurance and risk process 
within the business. The actions for 2012/13 are: 
 - strategic review of our internal audit and assurance plan to 
ensure alignment and support of the Company's plan;
 - review internal audit effectiveness in line with the Chartered 
Institute of Internal Audit requirements;
 - continue to improve understanding of key business areas; 
 - continue to broaden the debate around risk tolerance and 
appetite; and
 - review ongoing learning requirements and potential  
up-skilling. Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 53
(see note 4). We ensure that our auditor engagement policy, 
which is reviewed annually and disclosed on our website 
marksandspencer.com/thecompany, is adhered to when 
non-audit work is commissioned. Audit partner rotation is 
also important to retain the objectivity of the process -  
Stuart Watson was appointed lead audit engagement  
partner in 2008/09.
Committee updates
In addition to the regular renew of audit compliance and 
process controls, the Committee received a number of detailed 
reviews from a number of business areas. Updates received by 
the Committee provided detail on the progress made over the 
year and the ongoing objectives. A brief overview of the detail 
covered in these updates is provided below.
Business Continuity
 - Reviewed the tools and processes established to ensure  
we have the capability to protect our people, the brand, 
property and profit at all times; 
 - Received plans for all locations both nationally and 
internationally; 
 - Discussed plans for the Olympics and the Queen's  
Diamond Jubilee;
 - Full medical and security package introduced for all 
business travellers; 
 - Travel tracker system introduced both nationally and 
internationally; 
 - Group training awareness programme launched; and
 - Evacuation pack and welfare response. 
Plan A
 - External International Advisory Board established, 
comprising academics and advisors, extending our reach to 
reflect the countries we operate in and source from;
 - Discussed progress in reducing carbon emissions, 
improvements in fuel and energy efficiency, reduction in 
waste and packaging, improvements in recycling and the 
M&S/Oxfam clothes exchange;
 - Update on work with suppliers to set up 12 Ethical Model 
factories in Bangladesh and three in India;
 - Review of commitments against plan; 
 - Overview of discussions with UNICEF outside the UK on 
social development programmes linked to the garment 
industry; and 
 - Overview of what we believe will be benchmarked as 
industry leading positions across a number of key areas.
General Merchandise ethical sourcing
 - Reviewed how we manage the ethical risks across our 
supply chain outlining our ethical trading approach across 
1.7 million workers, spread over 1,448 sites in over 77 
countries with 55 different languages; 
 - Considered the key ethical issues including: excessive 
working hours, poor health and safety, terms and conditions 
of employment, migrant labour, and low wages; 
 - Discussed the team and the independent ethical trading 
division based in our regional offices in China, India, 
Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Turkey and the UK. 
M&S was the first UK retailer to establish a clear set of labour 
standards in 1998 known as our Global Sourcing Principles. 
Each supplier must agree to and sign our terms and 
conditions, which include these Principles. M&S has been a 
founding member of the Ethical Trading Initiative since 1998 
and we have established ethical policies on key issues. We 
have a clear factory approval process which is independent 
from our buying departments.
International business development
 - Focused on the risks to our international growth - each risk 
was highlighted and discussed, alongside the relevant 
mitigating action which was either recently taken or in 
progress; 
 - Discussed the team and its integration - the presentation also 
covered the performance of our partly-owned businesses, 
franchise operations, ethical reputation and the importance  
of having an aligned approach across the business.
Data security
Updates relating to our investment in IT security, building of 
the new retail website platform and the move from the current 
platform supported by Amazon. International activities, user 
access and the controls around the protection of personal 
data. Policies were reviewed as was the recruitment of 
resource and the skill sets these individuals bring to M&S. 
Assurance
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the 
effectiveness of the Group's:
 - systems of internal control, covering all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management systems, primarily through approving 
the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews  
of the annual and half year financial statements and a 
review of the nature, scope and reports of external audit; 
 - management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment 
activity and an internal audit report on the process; and 
 - action taken or to be taken to manage critical risks or  
to remedy any control failings or weaknesses identified. 
The Audit Committee has completed its review of the 
effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal control 
during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report,  
in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC. It 
confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were 
identified in the review for 2011/12. Where areas for 
improvement were identified, processes are in place to 
ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress 
is monitored.
The key features of the Group's internal control and risk 
management systems that ensure the accuracy and 
reliability of financial reporting include: clearly defined lines  
of accountability and delegation of authority, policies and 
procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, 
preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, 
project governance and information security, and the 
Company's Code of Ethics and Behaviours.