 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003 26
Corporate Governance
Compliance
Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high
ethical values and professionalism in all its
activities. As an essential part of this commitment
the Group supports the highest standards in
corporate governance.
Other than as indicated below, the Board
considers that the Company has complied with
the 14 Principles of Good Governance and Code
of Best Practice (the Combined Code), which are
incorporated into the United Kingdom Listing
Authority Listing Rules, throughout the year
ended 31 December 2003.
Due to the timing of the changes of the Directors,
the Company has not complied throughout the
whole of the year with all of the provisions of the
Combined Code.
The Combined Code requires the role of the
Chairman and Chief Executive to be separated.
Throughout 2003, the Group had an Executive
Chairman and a Divisional Chief Executive for the
Landscape Products Division which represents
over 80 per cent of Group turnover. As announced
in March 2003, with effect from 1 January 2004, Mr
D.G. Holden was appointed Chief Executive and
from that date there is clear separation of the roles
of Chairman and Chief Executive.
For the period 13 June 2003 to 23 July 2003 there
were no Non-Executive Directors. The Company
was, therefore, not compliant with the provision
that Non-Executive Directors should comprise not
less than one third of the Board nor with the
provision requiring there to be an identified
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The
whole of the Board acted as the Nominations
Committee thus making the Company non-
compliant throughout the year with the provision
requiring a majority of Non-Executive Directors.
During the period from 13 June 2003 to 23 July
2003, when the Company had no Non-Executive
Directors, it was unable to comply with the
provision requiring that the Remuneration
Committee comprise only Non-Executive
Directors and similarly for the period from 7
January 2003 to 31 December 2003 the Company
was unable to comply with the provision
requiring an Audit Committee of at least three
Directors all of whom should be Non-Executive.
The paragraphs below, together with the report
on Directors' Remuneration set out on pages 29 to
34, describe how these principles are applied
within Marshalls.
The Board
The Board is responsible for the overall direction,
strategy, performance and management of
Marshalls plc. Short biographies of each of the
current Directors, which illustrate their range of
experience, are set out on page 17.
For the year ended 31 December 2003, the Board
comprised four Executive Directors throughout
the year. There were a number of changes
amongst the Non-Executive Directors which are
noted below. Mr M.A. Stacey resigned as a
Director on 6 January 2003. In accordance with
the Articles of Association, Mr J.W. Footman retired
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and he
did not seek re-election. Mr R.A. Barfield resigned
on 13 June 2003. Each were members of both the
Audit Committee and the Remuneration
Committee during the period of their office. Mr
A.J. Allner and Mr R.T. Scholes were appointed as
Non-Executive Directors on 23 July 2003 and
became members of both the Audit Committee
and Remuneration Committee. They have
remained members of each for the remainder of
the year ended 31 December 2003.
All the Non-Executive Directors who served
during the year are considered to be independent
within the meaning of Provision A.3.2 of the
Combined Code and represent a source of strong,
independent advice and judgement. The Senior
Independent Director was Mr J.W. Footman from 1
January 2003 until 28 May 2003 and Mr R.T.
Scholes from 23 July 2003. There was no Senior
Independent Director between 28 May 2003 and
23 July 2003. 27 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003
From 1 January 2004, the Board comprised a Non-
Executive Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief
Executive, Finance Director and two independent
Non-Executive Directors. The Board believes that
this structure is appropriate for Marshalls at this
time. The separation of the roles of Chairman and
Chief Executive has taken place as noted on the
previous page.
The Board considers that each Director is able to
bring independent judgement to the Company's
affairs on all matters.
The Directors are subject to election at the Annual
General Meeting immediately following their
appointment and to re-election every three years.
Any Director attaining the age of 70 would be
subject to re-election annually.
The Board meets eight times a year on a formal
basis and is supplied in a timely manner with
information in a form and of a quality appropriate
to enable it to discharge its duties. There is an
agreed schedule of matters reserved to it for
collective decision and the Board and Committee
papers are sent out seven days before meetings
take place.
The Group is centralised in its management,
decision making and financial control. The Board,
at its meetings, reviews the financial results of all
Group companies. A detailed annual budget and
business plan is prepared for each operation in
conjunction with local management. These are
then compared in full detail with the monthly
management accounts. Executive Directors are
required to comment on all areas where
performance departs from current expectations.
Any significant variances are discussed at Board
level and appropriate action taken. All Directors
have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and there is an established
procedure for all Directors to take independent
legal advice in furtherance of their duties, if
necessary, at the Company's expense.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a
year and is comprised of Mr R.T. Scholes and Mr
A.J. Allner, both independent Non-Executive
Directors. It was chaired from 23 July 2003 by Mr
R.T. Scholes having previously been chaired by Mr
R.A. Barfield up to 13 June 2003.
The Board have agreed new Terms of Reference
for the Audit Committee and these are consistent
with current best practice.
The Audit Committee reviews the annual
Financial Statements and the interim and
preliminary announcements prior to submission
to the Board, compliance with accounting
standards, the scope and extent of the external
audit programme, and the appointment and
remuneration of the Auditors. It also monitors the
operation and effectiveness of the Group's
internal controls.
The Company does not have an in-house internal
audit function. Instead, it has concluded that it is
more effective for firms of external accountants
(other than the Company's Auditors) to carry out
regular internal audit assignments of a financial
and systems nature. The Audit Committee
reviewed the planned Internal Audit Programme.
The results of a number of assignments have been
reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
These assignments form part of a much wider
programme of independently audited aspects of
the Group's operations.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised only
of independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr A.J.
Allner and Mr R.T. Scholes, and meets at least twice
a year. It was chaired by Mr A.J. Allner from 23 July
2003 having been chaired by Mr J.W. Footman
until 28 May 2003.
The Board have agreed new Terms of Reference
for the Remuneration Committee and these are
consistent with current best practice. The report on Directors' Remuneration is set out
on pages 29 to 34.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is responsible for
considering the appointment of Non-Executive
and Executive Directors. The Nomination
Committee in 2003 comprised all the members of
the Board. From 1 January 2004 the Nomination
Committee comprised Mr A.J. Allner and Mr R.T.
Scholes who are the two independent Non-
Executive Directors. The Nomination Committee
present their recommendations to the Board. The
appointment of Directors is made by the Board
through a formal process.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company recognises the importance of
communicating with its shareholders to ensure
that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the Annual
Report and the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
In addition, a range of corporate information is
available to investors on the Company's website.
Formal presentations are made to institutional
shareholders following the announcement of the
Company's full year and interim results. The Board
recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for
dialogue with private shareholders. All Directors
normally attend the AGM and are available to
answer any questions that shareholders may wish
to raise. The Notice of Meeting is sent to
shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a
poll is validly called and after each such vote the
number of proxy votes received for and against
the resolution is announced.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for
the Group's system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the Group's significant
risks through a Risk Committee which reports
directly to the Board and which has been in place
throughout the year ended 31 December 2003
and up to the date of this report.
The Risk Committee comprises Mr C.T. Burnett, Mr
D.G. Holden and Mr I.D. Burrell. It is chaired by Mr
C.T. Burnett. The Risk Committee is responsible for
identifying, evaluating and managing any
material risks which might threaten the Group's
business objectives. In undertaking this work, it
receives quarterly risk reviews and an annual risk
assessment report carried out by the head of each
business unit. From this information, the
Committee has compiled a Risk Register which
identifies the Group's key risk areas, the
probability of these risks occurring and the
impact they would have. In addition the Risk
Register identifies the controls that exist to
manage and, where possible, minimise or
eliminate those risks. The Risk Register is used to
direct action programmes to test the
effectiveness, including independent audit
assessment, of those controls. This process is
regularly reviewed by the Board and it accords
with the internal control guidance for Directors in
the Combined Code.
In addition to the major risk review process, the
Group operates under an established internal
control framework, the key features of which
include clearly defined reporting lines and
authorisation procedures and a comprehensive
budget and monthly reporting system.
The Board has carried out an annual assessment
of the Group's risk management and internal
control system for the year to 31 December 2003
by considering reports from both the Audit
Committee and the Risk Committee.
Going Concern
The Directors consider, after making appropriate
enquiries at the time of approving the financial
statements, that the Company and the Group
have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future,
and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the
going concern basis in the preparation of the
Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance (continued)
Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003 28