 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 28
Risk Management and Principal Risks
Framework for managing risk
The Group's Risk Committee determines the Group's approach to risk, its policies and the procedures that are
put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
Process
There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse risks and those of a more material nature are
included in the Group Risk Register. The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least every 6 months
and the overall process is the subject of regular review. Risks are recorded with a full analysis and risk owners
are nominated who have authority and responsibility for assessing and managing the risk. All risks are analysed
for impact and probability to determine exposure and impact to the business and the determination of a
gross risk score  enables risk exposure to be prioritised. External risks include the weather, political and
economic conditions, the effect of legislation or other regulatory actions, the actions of competitors, foreign
exchange, raw material prices and pension funding.  Internal risks include investment in new products, new
business strategies and acquisitions.
The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, financial and operational risk both external and
internal.  The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored and such controls are subjected
to internal audit and periodic testing in order to provide independent verification where this is deemed
appropriate. The effectiveness and impact of key controls are evaluated and this is used to determine a net
risk score  for each risk. The process is used to develop action plans that are used to manage, or respond to,
the risks and these are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis by the Group's Risk Committee.
Macro-economic and political 
The Group is dependent on the
level of activity in its end markets.
Accordingly, it is susceptible to
economic downturn and Govern-
ment policy that impacts the level
of Public Sector investment.
The lower activity levels
could reduce sales and
production volumes which
may have an adverse effect
on the Group's financial
results.
The lower activity levels
could reduce sales and
production volumes could
have an adverse effect on
the Group's financial
results.
  The Group closely monitors trends and
lead indicators, invests in market research
and is an active member of the CPA. 
  The Group benefits from the diversity of
its business and end markets. 
  The Group focuses on sales
opportunities and strategic growth
initiatives, together with quality, service
and its supply chain.
  The Group undertakes ongoing reviews
of trading policies and relationships and
maintains constant communication with
customers.
  The Group has a continuing focus on
new product development including
landscape water management.
  The Group is developing its internal
flooring offer and widening its
International offer in order to diversify its
activities and therefore reduce its
reliance on potentially weather-affected
product areas.
Weather
The Group is exposed to the
impact of prolonged periods of
bad weather.
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors 29 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Competitor Activity
The Group has a number of
existing competitors who compete
on range, price, quality and service.
Potential new low cost competitors
may be attracted into the market
through increased demand
particularly for imported natural
stone products.
The increased competition
could reduce volumes and
margins on manufactured
and traded products.
The increased costs could
reduce margins and may
be further impacted in the
event of imbalances in the
mix of regional activity.
  The Group has unique selling points that
differentiate the Marshalls branded offer. 
  The Group focuses on quality, service,
reliability and ethical standards that
differentiate Marshalls from competitor
products. 
  The Group continues to have the lowest
cost to market. 
  The Group has a continuing focus on
new product development. 
  The Group benefits from the diversity of
its business and end markets. 
  The Group focuses on its supplier
relationships, flexible contracts and the
use of hedging instruments. 
  The Group utilises sales pricing  and
purchasing policies designed to
mitigate the risks. 
  The Group owns its fleet and uses
specialist delivery vehicles.
Costs
The Group is susceptible to
significant increases in the price of
raw materials, utilities, fuel oil,
haulage costs and vehicle
availability.
Such acquisitions might
have an impact on the risk
profile of the Group and
could have an impact on
the retention of key
personnel within the
acquired business.
  The Group uses specialist advisers and
undertakes extensive due diligence. 
  Each acquisition is supported by a
detailed integration plan covering all
key areas of activity and involving
employees from the wider Group with
the appropriate skills required.
Business Integration
The Group continues to target
strategic business acquisitions and
the integration of any acquisition
could act as a diversion of
management's attention.
These risks could increase
pension scheme liabilities
or reduce assets, putting
pressure on accounting
notional interest and
therefore downward
pressure on PBT and EPS.
This could also result in the
need for additional cash
injections.
  The Group Pension Scheme is closed to
new members and future service
accrual.
  The Group uses liability driven
investments to hedge interest rate and
inflation risks. 
  De-risking strategies continue to be
pursued and risk management is a key
control used by the Trustee.
  Professional advisers are consulted to
minimise risk.
Pension
The Defined Benefit Pension
Scheme may be impacted by
volatility in financial markets and
the longevity of members
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 30
International
Continued lack of market activity
and market growth in Western
Europe.
The lower activity levels
could lead to lower sales
and production volumes
and therefore the need for
increased funding support.
  The Group closely monitors trends and
lead indicators. 
  The Group benefits from the diversity of
its business and end markets. 
  The Group focuses on sales
opportunities and strategic growth
initiatives, together with quality, service
and its supply chain.
  The Group undertakes ongoing reviews
of trading policies and relationships and
maintains constant communication with
customers. 
An incident could lead to
disruption to production
and to financial penalties
as well as a potential
negative impact on the
Group's reputation.
  The Group uses professional specialists
covering carbon reduction, water
management and biodiversity. 
  The Group focuses on the
implementation of ISO standards.
  The Group has a formal Group
sustainability strategy focusing on
impact reduction.
Environmental
The risk in an environmental
contamination event is that it may
lead to a prosecution and to
reputational loss.
An incident could lead to a
disruption to the supply of
products for customers
and to increased costs as
well as a potential negative
impact on the Group's
reputation.
  The Group employs compliance
procedures and policies which seek to
ensure that local, national and
international regulatory and compliance
procedures are fully complied with. 
  The Group's emphasis is on high
environmental, ethical and health &
safety standards and it undertakes
independent audit processes for its
overseas supply chain, particularly India
and China.
Corporate, Legal and Regulatory
The Group may be adversely
affected by an unexpected
reputational event, for example, it
its ethical supply chain.
Insufficient access to
funding could limit the
Group's ability to achieve
the desired levels of
growth. 
  The Group has significant committed
facilities in place with a good spread of
medium term maturities and significant
headroom. 
  The Group's policy continues to be to
arrange funding ahead of requirements
and to maintain sufficient undrawn
committed bank facilities.
  Relationships are maintained with
several potential banking partners.
Access to Funding
The Group continues to require
debt funding in order to meet its
trading obligations and to grow
the business.
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors 31 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Financial Instruments
The main risks arising from the
Group's financial instruments are
liquidity risk, interest rate risk,
credit risk, pricing risk and foreign
currency risk.
Ineffective procedures
could lead to an adverse
effect on the Group's
financial results.
  The Board reviews and agrees policies
for managing each of these risks. 
  The Group undertakes no speculative
trading in financial instruments.
  The Group manages its insurance risk by
continuous review and maintaining a
balance between capped self-insurance
and third party cover against major
catastrophes.
Ineffective procedures
could lead to an adverse
effect on the Group's
financial results. 
  All IT system development projects are
actively and carefully planned with
defined governance and control
procedures. 
  To support and enable future growth
the Group has upgraded its IT systems to
ensure a common platform across all
business units.
  Regular independent risk and project
management audits are undertaken.
  The Group ensures that industry
standards are adopted and disaster
recovery plans and procedures exist and
are regularly tested.
IT Infrastructure
Disruption to the IT environment
could affect the Group's ability to
conduct its ongoing operations.
Ineffective procedures
could lead to poor decision
making, an inability to
meet business objectives
and a lack of innovation
and enterprise within the
Group.
  The Board reviews and agrees HR
policies covering all relevant areas. 
  Formal recruitment processes are
maintained.
  The Group has a formal appraisal
process and ensures there is scope for
progression in the Group. 
  The Group aims to have competitive
remuneration packages and bonus
schemes.
  The Remuneration Committee reviews
all key issues relating to Executive
Remuneration.
Recruitment and Retention of
Key Personnel
The Group needs to ensure that it
continues to be able to attract,
develop, motivate and retain good
quality employees and leaders. 
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors