 24
Mears Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Robust risk management
The effective management of risks is a key feature in the continuing 
success of the Mears Group. Our approach is to identify principal 
risks and robustly mitigate the impact of these risks through 
a Group risk management process.
Macroeconomy
Mears' primary markets are subject to Government legislation and are dependent on 
the political environment, local or national, including public sector policy and funding.
Any changes in policy or legislation that reduce expenditure during the life of 
contracts could have a detrimental effect on the Company's business. Also other 
market factors could damage business, e.g. economic failures and stock levels.
Reputation
The ultimate success of Mears relies upon maintaining a positive reputation in the public 
and amongst all stakeholders.
Negative actions, behaviour, service and results will damage the business' reputation 
and will affect the future of Mears. This includes risk of negative publicity from actions 
of employees and suppliers. 
This could arise, amongst other reasons, from inappropriate communications, 
inaccurate client reporting or poor care and poor attention to vulnerable customers.
People
Mears is dependent on the management team along with a skilled and motivated 
workforce, otherwise the delivery of business objectives will be jeopardised. 
Mears sees sound commercial management of contracts and the business 
as a whole as essential to our objectives.
Management expertise is retained to maintain the right balance between our 
customer-centric culture and our commercial requirements. We always want to 
provide value for money as well as legitimately bill our clients and at the same 
time achieve operating efficiency drawing from best practice.
   Awareness of and responsiveness to market developments, e.g. developing 
managed in-sourcing and joint venture products to give choice to clients
   Business strategy - diversity of markets expanding from the original 
Social Housing sector business
   Innovation around Government policy
   Pensions policy to limit liability
   Strengthened corporate governance
   Clear communications policy and strategy with a new Group Scheme 
of Delegated Authority, Daily Mears Matters news email and quarterly top 
80 managers' meetings, which are cascaded to all employees.
   Internal auditing of KPI reporting
   Care risk plan for dealing with vulnerable customers
   Comprehensive health and safety policy and safe systems of working
   Compliance management of bribery and corruption legislation, whistleblowing policy, 
internal audit resources
  Upgrading of Group Fraud Risk Management Plan and anti-fraud policy
  New Group Learning & Development strategy with a strong central team
   Recruitment and selection criteria for all appointments
   High quality people to be secured and retained in key positions
   Training programmes supplied and we have Investor in People certification
   Formal assessment/capability testing for key management appointments
   Succession planning for key positions
   Expanded the Group's Senior Management Team to cope with existing 
and new business
   Business unit budgets and regular monitoring of profit and loss performance 
and cash conversion 
   Risk mitigation plans showing Group, branch and regional lines of defence
Liquidity
There is a noticeable increase in client and market focus in the financial strength 
of the companies trading within the Group's core business sectors due to a number 
of main peer contractors going into liquidation. 
Various stakeholders require reassurance that the Company has strong liquidity risk 
management including a long-term funding facility and the generation of sufficient 
cash from trading. Risks arise from short-term cash flow movements and renewal 
risk on maturity of facilities.
   New funding facility secured in 2011 to service the Group's needs until 2016, 
target refinance one year before maturity
  Business unit budgets and regular monitoring of financial performance
   Long-term liquidity - annual cash flow forecasts for visibility of funding 
and compliance with banking covenants
   Short-term liquidity - weekly three-month rolling cash flow forecast and detailed 
variance analysis
   Robust management of work in progress and debt
   Proactive identification of potential bad debt and management plans 
put in place between operations and finance teams
Risk and description Mitigation
Review of the year 
> Risk management 25
Mears Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Company overview  
1-11
Review of the year  
12-27
Corporate governance  
28-49
Financial statements  
50-104
Business retention and new business
A strong bid pipeline and order book are both essential to the success of the business. 
Risk management planning is needed to ensure new tenders are won and 
existing contracts are retained. Successful re-tendering requires a combination 
of competitive pricing and client confidence in quality proposals based on 
evidence of historical delivery.
   Strong Group Business Development team
   Bid project management process with assigned bid leader
   Expanding bid governance process under consolidated scheme of delegated 
authority, including audits
   Risk plan to respond to sub-optimal market pricing
   Commercial review of efficiency of delivery model for re-tendering and a plan 
to achieve best efficiency rates 
   Regional Managing Directors' performance review and client/management relationships
   Contract development/improvement plans 
Health and safety
Mears' services and operations involve a series of high risk activities ranging from 
dealing with vulnerable customers in need of care to our building related services, 
e.g. working at heights, working with gas and electricity and dealing with asbestos. 
Failure to have robust and safe systems of work could lead to serious personal 
injury or fatality.
   Strong Group and regional safety, health and environmental (SHE) teams
   Comprehensive safe systems of work and risk mitigation plans
   Internal SHE auditing and third party external validation 
  Regular SHE communication and a national conference
   Training of operations staff and the involvement of subcontractors
   Annual Group SHE strategy and plan
   Close involvement with regional and branch management 
Business continuity
Mears recognises that there are considerable risks of business continuity in certain 
locations within our markets which could be caused by rioting, terrorism and natural 
catastrophe. In addition there are geographical risks that could threaten our business 
infrastructure, e.g. telecommunications failures.
Vulnerable people depend upon our services; hence we must have disaster recovery 
and business continuity plans.
   IT disaster recovery plan and back-up systems facility remote to business units
   Business continuity plans for each regional/business unit in progress
   Disaster scenario management training 
   Data back-up facility and protocol
  Disaster recovery and business continuity plans to be tested annually
Legal and regulatory
The Group is subject to numerous tax, legal and regulatory requirements. 
A breach of any of these could result in legal proceedings, imposition of financial 
and other penalties or investigations, taking management focus away from 
core business and therefore disrupting the business.
   Provision of information across the business about new laws and regulations
   Head of Legal Services remit with an expanded team and external support
   Induction of staff 
   Training of key staff on developments including the Bribery Act 2010
  Policies and procedures issued and controls to comply with laws and regulations
   Risk assessments 
  Internal governance control and audits
Integrity, ethics, anti-bribery and corruption
There are inherent risks of bribery, fraud and corruption in some of the sectors 
we work in. It is important that we have an internal control framework and 
means of communication to be proactive where any risks materialise.
   Group internal audit team
   Confidential whistleblowing policy
   Regular communication of Company policy
   Comprehensive investigations and robust action on any negative findings
   Business ethics code of conduct
   Auditing of legitimate work valuation/billing from subcontractors and to our clients
   Risk plan to implement controls for the anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation 
Risk and description Mitigation
Review of the year 
> Risk management continued
Operational risk
The success of the Group is underpinned by the delivery of services profitably 
whilst exceeding our clients' expectations and our contractual obligations.
   Senior Directors to attend a significant proportion of client and tenant group 
meetings to ensure there is no disconnect between our customer experience 
and other management information
  Each division has its own risk register and subject to Group risk audit
   A number of the key mitigants are covered within People and Health and Safety 
on page 24 and above respectively
   Ensuring robust processes are put in place to control the procurement 
and management of subcontracting
   The Group's IT systems have been developed to ensure maximum visibility 
of labour productivity and gross margin
   Business unit budgets and regular monitoring of profit and loss performance 
and cash conversion
   Any major contract failures relating to operations or commercial results are 
managed and improved by operating companies with Group support and scrutiny