 MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 11
Corporate Governance
The Company is listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM ). Therefore there is no
requirement to comply with the Combined Code (the code ) as published by the Financial
Reporting Council. However, the directors recognise the importance of the code and accordingly
although not required to, the Directors wish to provide disclosures of the Group's Corporate
Governance policies and procedures as set out below. 
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Brook Land, three other non-executive directors
and two executive directors of whom Stephen Ayres is Chief Executive. The differing roles of
Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged by the Board. 
Given its size the Group does not currently have, nor considers necessary, a Senior Independent
non-executive Director.
Biographies of Board members appear on page 9 of this report. These indicate both their
independence in respect of the non-executive Directors and, in respect of the whole Board, the
high levels and range of business experience which are essential to manage the Group effectively.
During the reporting period the Board met eight times. To assist the Board to function effectively
and the directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant
information. In the case of the Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers,
including latest available financial information with comparisons to budget, regular business
progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters, and any other information
as required by the Board from time to time is provided by management.
At the Group's expense any Board member may have access to independent professional advice
with regard to any Group matter.
The overall Board responsibilities are outlined in the Corporate Strategy and Responsibility, set out
on pages 13 and 14.
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings and meetings of shareholders
and to ensure that all directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in
Board discussions. The Chief Executive is required to develop and lead business strategies and
processes to enable the Group's businesses to meet the requirements of its shareholders.
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Company's Articles
of Association, to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that at least one third of directors retire by rotation each year and seek
re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Full details of the directors' remuneration are set out in note 6 to the financial statements and a
statement of the Group's remuneration policies are set out on pages 15 and 16. The
Chief Executive attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee to discuss the performance of
the other executive directors and make proposals as necessary, but is not present when his own
position is being discussed.
207651 MEM_pp01-24  6/9/06  11:17  Page 11 MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 12
Corporate Governance
continued
The Board (continued)
Each executive director abstains from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on
Remuneration Committee recommendations where the recommendations have a direct bearing on
his or her own remuneration package. The details of each executive Director's individual package
are fixed by the Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Communication
The Company places importance on communication with its shareholders. 
This is carried out by regular dialogue with individual and institutional shareholders, as well as
announcements and general presentations as appropriate. This assists in ensuring that members
of the Board, in particular the non-executive Directors, develop a balanced understanding of the
issues of the major investors of the Company. All shareholders are given notice of the Annual
General Meeting where they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and members of
its committees, and additional copies of the financial statements are available to all shareholders
on request and to other parties who have an interest in the Group's performance.
Audit and internal control
The responsibilities of the directors in connection with the financial statements are explained on
page 21 and the statement of the directors on going concern appears below. 
Financial reporting: During the year the financial reporting procedures and authority limits were
reviewed and approved by the Board. A detailed formal budgeting process for the Group's main
businesses is used to produce an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board. Results
for the Group's businesses are then reported monthly against this budget to the Board.
Internal financial controls: Senior executives are accountable to the Executive Directors on the
operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible. Furthermore, the
Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board concerning the Group's operations as a whole.
Capital investment: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure. These include
annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and, where
businesses are acquired, due diligence requirements. 
Audit Committee: The Audit Committee which consists of C Stainforth and the Chairman is
responsible for the relationship with the Group's auditors, the in-depth review of the Group's
financial reports, monitoring internal controls and any other reports that the Group may circulate.
The Committee meets with the auditors a minimum of twice a year, without the Executive Directors
being present and should it be necessary, would convene at other times. During the report period
the Audit committee met twice.
Given its size, the Group does not currently have, nor considers there is need for, an internal
audit function.
207651 MEM_pp01-24  6/9/06  11:17  Page 12 MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 13
Corporate Governance
continued
Corporate Strategy and Responsibility
MEM plc is a quoted company whose shares trade on AIM. It specialises in owning, licensing,
producing and marketing entertainment products, rights and facilities. The Company seeks to
develop via both organic growth and acquisition in order to maximise benefits to shareholders,
staff, partners, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
To achieve this, the Directors believe that quality drives the operation at every stage in its business
cycle. This commitment ensures that rights owners, suppliers, customers, staff and stakeholders
are all entitled to expect the highest standards of service and treatment.
All aspects of the business should be conducted in a spirit of openness, honesty and co-operation
without in any way compromising quality, ethics, health, safety or the welfare of any entity or party
whether directly or indirectly associated with the Group.
The Company believes that this is not only good business practice, but also enables the
organisation to be considered as a valued partner by suppliers and customers alike, thereby
maximising the opportunities to the benefit of shareholders and staff.
Strategy for 2006/07
The strategy for the financial year 2006/07 is: 
  the further development of existing relationships with leading brand owners by:
  detailed research of their catalogues to ascertain the prime titles for the
appropriate market
  commitment of marketing effort to obtain the best results for the partners and MEM
group, in particular the development of internet marketing opportunities; 
  the identification of new partners for new ventures to develop markets and increase sales;
  to produce or co-produce programming for Broadcasters with the aim of creating products
and formats to produce future value for all parts of the Group;
  to explore a range of alternative delivery systems for the Group's entertainment products; and
  explore and develop growth opportunities for the Group whether organically or by acquisition.
Main Board Responsibilities
The Board believes that its primary responsibility is to provide a framework within which the above
key strategies can be implemented and the Corporate Strategy achieved while ensuring that the
interests of all stakeholders are balanced, appropriate and fulfilled.
207651 MEM_pp01-24  6/9/06  11:17  Page 13 MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 14
Corporate Governance
continued
Main Board Responsibilities (continued)
The Board will achieve this by:
  regular scrutiny of the existing operations to ensure that all systems, business relationships
and staffing levels are appropriate to meet the aims of the Corporate Strategy; 
  providing and managing the financial resources to achieve the aims of the Corporate Strategy;
  ensuring regular clear lines of communication at all levels of the Group and with other
interested parties;
  continually seeking, discussing and exploring new business opportunities to provide growth
within the Group thereby improving shareholder returns;
  maintaining good investor, broker and analyst relationships by a process of honest, open
dialogue and compliance with Corporate Governance good practice in line with the Combined
Code at a level appropriate to the business' size at any given time;
  keeping other funders (eg banks) fully informed by regular, high quality information flow and
discussions as appropriate;
  rewarding key individuals in accordance with industry best practice to incentivise and retain
them for the benefit of the Group and its stakeholders;
  keeping under review the composition of the Board and the suitability of external advisors
(brokers, auditors, lawyers etc) for the size and stage of development of the Group; and
  monitoring the performance of the group to ensure the adequacy of funding and facilities to
allow it to meet its stated aims and sustain its strategy, taking action as necessary whether by
raising further funding, releasing value from within the Group or amending the business model
as appropriate.
Going Concern Basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the
financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board
Mariana Spater
Secretary
30 August 2006
207651 MEM_pp01-24  6/9/06  11:17  Page 14