 MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 9
Corporate Governance
The Company is listed on the Alternative Investment Market. Therefore there is no requirement to
comply with the Combined Code (the code) as set out in the UKLA Listing Rules. However, the
directors recognise the importance of the code and accordingly although not required to, the
directors wish to provide disclosures of the Group's Corporate Governance policies and
procedures as set out below.
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Brook Land, three other non-executive directors
and two executive directors of whom Steve Ayres is Chief Executive. The differing roles of
Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged by the Board.
Biographies of Board members appear on page 7 of this report. These indicate both their
independence and the high levels and range of business experience which are essential to manage
the Group effectively.
During the reporting period the Board met six times. To assist the Board to function effectively and
the directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant
information. In the case of the Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers,
including latest available financial information with comparisons to budget, regular business
progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters, and any other information
as required by the Board from time to time is provided by management.
The overall Board responsibilities are outlined in the Corporate Strategy and Responsibility, set out
on pages 10 to 12.
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings and meetings of shareholders
and to ensure that all directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in
Board discussions. The Chief Executive is required to develop and lead business strategies and
processes to enable the Group's businesses to meet the requirements of its shareholders.
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Company's Articles
of Association, to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The
Articles also require that at least one third of directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-
election at the Annual General Meeting.
Full details of the directors' remuneration are set out in note 5 to the financial statements and a
statement of the Group's remuneration policies are set out on pages 13 to 14. The Chief Executive
attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee to discuss the performance of the other
executive directors and make proposals as necessary, but is not present when his own position is
being discussed.
Each executive director abstains from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on
Remuneration Committee recommendations where the recommendations have a direct bearing on
his or her own remuneration package. The details of each executive director's individual package
are fixed by the Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board. MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 10
Corporate Governance
continued
Communication
The Company places importance on communication with its shareholders.
This is carried out by regular dialogue with individual and institutional shareholders, as well as
general presentations after the interim and annual results. All shareholders are given notice of the
Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and
members of its committees, and additional copies of the financial statements are available to all
shareholders on request and to other parties who have an interest in the Group's performance.
Audit and internal control
The responsibilities of the directors in connection with the financial statements are explained on
page 18 and the statement of the directors on going concern appears below.
Financial reporting: During the year the financial reporting procedures and authority limits were
reviewed and approved by the Board. A detailed formal budgeting process for the Group's main
businesses is used to produce an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board. Results
for the Group's businesses are then reported monthly against this budget to the Board.
Internal financial controls: Senior executives are accountable to the Executive Directors on the
operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible. Furthermore, the Chief
Executive Officer reports to the Board concerning the Group's operations as a whole.
Capital investment: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure. These include
annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and, where
businesses are acquired, due diligence requirements.
Audit Committee: The Audit committee which consists of C Stainforth and B Land is responsible
for the relationship with the Group's auditors, the in-depth review of the Group's financial reports,
monitoring internal controls and any other reports that the Group may circulate. The Committee
meets with the auditors a minimum of twice a year, without the Executive Directors being present,
prior to the announcement of interim and annual results, and should it be necessary, would
convene at other times.
Given its size, the Group does not currently have, nor considers there is need for, an internal audit
function.
Corporate Strategy and Responsibility
MEM plc is a quoted company whose shares trade on AIM. It specialises in owning, licensing,
creating and marketing entertainment products, rights and facilities. The Company seeks to
develop via both organic growth and acquisition in order to maximise benefits to shareholders,
staff, partners, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
To achieve this, the Directors believe that quality drives the operation at every stage in its business
cycle. This commitment ensures that rights' owners, suppliers, customers, staff and stakeholders
are all entitled to expect the highest standards of service and treatment. MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 11
Corporate Governance
continued
Corporate Strategy and Responsibility (continued)
All aspects of the business should be conducted in a spirit of openness, honesty and co-operation
without in any way compromising quality, ethics, health, safety or the welfare of any entity or party
whether directly or indirectly associated with the Group.
The Company believes that this is not only good business practice, but also enables the
organisation to be considered as a valued partner by suppliers and customers alike, thereby
maximising the opportunities to the benefit of shareholders and staff.
Strategy for 2004/05
The strategy for the financial year 2004/05 is:
  the development of existing relationships with leading brand owners by:
 detailed research of their catalogues to ascertain the prime titles for the appropriate market
  full and open discussions on all commercial aspects of the relationship
  commitment of marketing effort to obtain the best results for the partners and MEM group,
including the further development and promotion of web based sales
  detailed and timely reporting of sales, costs and royalties with prompt payment if applicable
  the identification of new partners for similar ventures thereby further strengthening the product
and distribution base
  to enhance systems to enable quality to be delivered to all parts of the relationship chain,
particularly to rights' owners and customers
  to ensure that the television studios remain a centre of excellence which not only provide a
first class service to its independent clients, but also underpins the operations of MEM
Television which is well placed to take advantage of any changes in the studio market which
may arise from the current uncertainty therein
  to provide an efficient, imaginative one stop  service for independent producers to facilitate
their production, distribution and marketing of new formats, thereby potentially providing both
them and the Group with valuable interests with future income streams
 to create cohesion between all parts of the Group with the aim of improving communications
thereby maximising opportunities between the different divisions. This will not only have a
direct business benefit, but will also assist in staff development and job satisfaction
  to continue to explore possible acquisitions of the right calibre and positioning to enhance the
range and stature of the Group, thereby providing opportunities for existing businesses and
staff, creating new strands of activity and growing the Group for the benefit of shareholders MEDAL ENTERTAINMENT & MEDIA PLC 12
Corporate Governance
continued
Main Board Responsibilities
The Board believes that its primary responsibility is to provide a framework within which the above
key strategies can be implemented and the Corporate Strategy achieved while ensuring that the
interests of all stakeholders are balanced, appropriate and fulfilled.
The Board will achieve this by:
 regular scrutiny of the existing operations to ensure that all systems, business relationships
and staffing levels are appropriate to meet the aims of the Corporate Strategy
 providing and managing the financial resources to achieve the aims of the Corporate Strategy
  ensuring regular clear lines of communication at all levels of the Group and with other
interested parties
  continually seeking, discussing and exploring new business opportunities to provide growth
within the Group thereby improving shareholder returns
 maintaining good investor, broker and analyst relationships by a process of honest, open
dialogue and compliance with Corporate Governance good practice in line with the Combined
Code at a level appropriate to the business' size at any given time
  keeping other funders (eg banks) fully informed by regular, high quality information flow and
discussions as appropriate
 rewarding key individuals in accordance with industry best practice to incentivise and retain
them for the benefit of the Group and its stakeholders
  keeping under review the composition of the Board and the suitability of external advisors
(brokers, auditors, lawyers etc) for the size and stage of development of the Group
  monitoring the performance of the Group to ensure the adequacy of funding and facilities to
allow it to meet its stated aims and sustain its Strategy, taking action as necessary whether by
raising further funding, releasing value from within the Group or amending the business model
as appropriate
Going Concern Basis
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the
financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board
Mariana Spater
Secretary