 Corporate governance
26
Medical Marketing International Group plc
Report and financial statements 2006
Compliance
The Company's shares were admitted to trading on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange in November 2000. The Company is not
required to comply with the Combined Code, however the Directors have decided to provide those corporate governance disclosures which it considers appropriate in
the circumstances.
The Board
The Board is responsible for creating value for shareholders, determining strategy, investment and acquisition policy, approving significant items of expenditure and
consideration of significant financing and legal matters. The Board approves annual budgets and monitors monthly accounts against these budgets. The Board also
seeks to ensure that its Annual Report and Financial Statements and other published financial information provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the
Company's position and prospects. The above is incorporated in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Group is led and controlled by a Board that at 31 March 2006 consisted of four Executive Directors and one Non-executive Director. The Board considers that 
the Non-executive Director and Part-time Medical Director are independent and bring strong judgement, knowledge and experience to the Board's deliberations.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 24 to 25. On 1 June 2006 Mark Burton was appointed to the Board as Chief Technical Officer. On the 17 May 2006,
Roland Cornish, the Non-executive Director, notified the Company that he wished to resign to concentrate on his own growing business and as such he will formally
step down immediately following the Annual General Meeting. The Company is seeking to appoint two new Non-executive Directors in the near future to support MMI
through its next stage of development.
The Board is chaired by David Best who also acts as Chief Executive. David Best founded the Company with Margaret Mitchell. The Board, having consulted major
shareholders, considers that currently it is not appropriate to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive due to the small size of the Company. However, the
Board continues to monitor this situation.
Directors are aware that they may, at the Company's expense, seek independent advice on any matter relating to the fulfilment of their duties. The Board also has
access to experienced legal advice from Glynne Stanfield who is a solicitor and partner in Eversheds LLP, on behalf of Eversecretary Limited, the Company Secretary.
The Board meets at least eight times per year, with meeting dates agreed for each year in advance. There is also frequent contact between the full-time Executive and
independent Directors and each Director is supplied on a timely basis with financial and operational information sufficient for the Board to fulfil its duties.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 there were nine routine Board meetings and five short notice meetings held, for example, to grant shares on the exercise of
options. The record of attendance of Board meetings was as follows:
Number of 
Number of meetings 
meetings expected 
attended to attend
David Best 14 14
John Hustler resigned 2 November 2005 44
Rob Sprawson appointed 2 November 2005 99
Margaret Mitchell 14 14
James Brenton appointed 2 November 2005 55
Roland Cornish 89
New Directors receive an introduction to the business from the Executive Chairman and meet with the other Directors for detailed discussions on the activities of the
Group. Relevant training courses and seminars have been attended by various members of the Board to assist in their further professional development.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, at each annual meeting one-third of the Directors retire by rotation and if appropriate, seek re-election 
(or, if the number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third retire) provided always that all Directors are subject to re-election 
at intervals of no more than three years.
  27
Medical Marketing International Group plc
Report and financial statements 2006
Board Committees
On 16 November 2005 the Board referred certain responsibilities to the Board Committees set out below which operate within defined terms. Details of these terms
are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website, www.mmigroup.co.uk.
The first Audit Committee meeting was held on 14 June 2006. The current composition of Board Committees, number of meetings in the period and record of
attendance is summarised below:
Committees
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Number of meetings in the period n/a 2 3
David Best Executive Chairman - Chairman -
- 2-
James Brenton Part-time Medical Director Secretary Member Secretary
- 2 3
Roland Cornish Non-executive Director Chairman Secretary Chairman
- 2 3
Audit Committee 
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to provide formal and transparent arrangements for considering how to apply the financial report and internal control principles
set out in the Combined Code, and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Company's auditors. The key terms are as follows:
- to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, and any formal announcement relating to the Company's performance;
- to monitor the effectiveness of the external audit process and make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration
of the external auditors;
- to keep under review the relationship with the external auditors including (but not limited to) their independence and objectivity;
- to keep under review the effectiveness of the Company's financial reporting and internal control policies and systems; and
- to review, at least annually, the need for an internal audit function.
Roland Cornish, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a Chartered Accountant and the founder and Executive Chairman of Beaumont Cornish Limited, a company
which acts as Nominated Adviser/Financial Adviser to approximately 40 AIM and fully listed companies.
Nomination Committee
The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to establish a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The key terms are as follows:
- to regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are 
deemed necessary;
- to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for particular appointments, having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
of the Board; and
- to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning.
Remuneration Committee
The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to establish a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and to set 
the remuneration packages of individual full-time Executive Directors. The key terms are as follows:
- to determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the full-time Executive Directors;
- to determine the total individual remuneration package of each full-time Executive Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments 
and share options;
- to determine targets for any performance related pay schemes; and
- to determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements for full-time Executive Directors.
The Directors' remuneration report is set out on pages 31 to 34. 28
Medical Marketing International Group plc
Report and financial statements 2006
Internal controls
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness. Such systems are designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board does not consider that an internal audit function is appropriate given the current scale and structure of its operations, however, the Board reviews this 
each year in light of the Audit Committee's recommendations.
Shareholder relations
The Company recognises the importance of effective communication with its shareholders and places it as a high priority. The Executive Chairman is responsible for
shareholder relations. The Annual Report contains a review of progress together with a description of the product pipeline in each of the Company's key subsidiaries.
The Company also provides an Interim Statement and press releases, as and when appropriate. All of the above documents are available on the Company's website
www.mmigroup.co.uk, together with some additional information on the Group and its activities.
The full-time Executive Directors maintain regular contact with major shareholders through a programme of meetings held throughout the year. All Directors meet 
with shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. A presentation is made by the Executive Chairman and shareholders are invited to ask questions and to meet 
with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended. At other times during the year the Company always attempts to answer shareholder questions promptly.
Articles of Association
The Company has reviewed its Articles of Association to ensure that they remain in line with modern corporate governance as they have not been reviewed since 2000
when the Company listed on AIM. The review has highlighted some minor areas where best practice dictates a change and therefore a resolution will be proposed at
the Annual General Meeting to amend the Articles.
The proposed amendments, none of which reduce the rights of shareholders, deal with: being able to communicate electronically with shareholders; shares transferred
through the CREST system; providing appropriate indemnity cover to the Company's Directors; increasing use of powers of attorney by overseas shareholders; Directors
being entitled to receive shareholder documentation; and payment of dividends. There are also a number of consequential or stylistic amendments.
A more detailed summary of the changes and a copy of the proposed new Articles (marked to show the changes against the Company's existing Articles) are available
on the Company's website at www.mmigroup.co.uk or upon written request to the Company Secretary at the Company's registered office.
Going concern
The Group is a pharmaceutical development business that expects to incur further losses as it continues to develop and invest in its therapeutic pipeline and related
technologies. As at 31 March 2006 the Group had net cash of approximately  9.16 million. At the time of approving the financial statements, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months and therefore have
adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Group may require additional funding for the continued operation of its business before sustainable profitability is achieved. Existing shareholders have been and
continue to be supportive and discussions with major pharmaceutical companies provide further potential sources of development funds.
This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Rob Sprawson
Chief Financial Officer
4 July 2006
Corporate governance continued