 12 Mediwatch Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Company is listed on AIM. Although the AIM Rules for 
Companies do not require compliance with the Financial Reporting 
Council's UK Corporate Governance Code the Code , the Board 
fully supports and has applied the principles recommended by the 
June 2010 version of the Code and is committed to ensuring that 
high standards of corporate governance are maintained by the 
Group.
The Board considers that during the financial year it has made 
progress in establishing good corporate governance practice 
principles.
The Company is not fully compliant with provisions of Section 1  
of the Code but continues to seek compliance wherever practical, 
given both the size of the Company and the resources available.
Board Structure
During the financial year, the Board comprised three non-executive 
directors, one of which was the Chairman, and two executive 
directors. Biographies of members of the Board are provided  
on pages 8 - 9.
In accordance with the Code, the roles of the Chairman, Omer 
Karim, and the Chief Executive Officer, Philip Stimpson, are 
separated and clearly defined and have been approved by the 
Board. In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is part  
of the Audit Committee and the Salaries and Remuneration 
Committee which considers matters including succession planning, 
the process of Board appointments and evaluating the individual 
performance of each director. The Chairman is also responsible for 
ensuring that the members of the Board receive accurate, timely 
and clear information to enable the directors to make sound 
decisions and fulfil their statutory and fiduciary duties. The Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for the overall management of  
the Group's business, the development of the Group's strategic 
direction, implementation and delivery of the annual business plan 
and the effective leadership, coordination and performance of the 
executive team. The Chief Executive Officer also ensures that the 
Group's strategies, plans and major developments are effectively 
communicated to shareholders and he maintains strong 
relationships with key external stakeholders in order to understand 
any concerns they may have regarding the Company and 
communicates these back to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors possess a wide range of skills and 
experience and the Board considers that each of the Non-Executive 
Directors who served throughout the financial year was 
independent within the meaning of the Code.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and also to independent professional advice where 
required.
During the financial year the Chairman, Omer Karim, continued his 
roles as a consultant urological surgeon in the NHS and private 
sector. His commitments to these roles are not considered  
to be such that he is not able to devote sufficient time to his 
Chairmanship of the Company.
The Board has established a formal policy of delegated authorities 
setting out matters which require its express approval and the 
authorities delegated to the Executive Directors. The Board receives 
an information pack in advance of each meeting containing 
thorough reports from the Executive Directors, management 
accounts and any other material deemed necessary for the Board 
to discharge its duties. The Board has responsibility for formulating, 
reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, budgets, major 
items of capital expenditure, corporate transactions, risk 
management policies, treasury policies, succession planning, 
appointments to the Board and material investments and disposals.
The Board recognises that an essential part of its responsibilities  
is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of 
liabilities and the accurate reporting of results. The Group has a 
comprehensive system for regular reporting to the Board including 
an annual budgeting system with budgets approved by the Board. 
The financial reporting system compares actual results against 
budget and prior year and reconsiders its financial forecasts for  
the balance of the prevailing year on a regular basis.
Board and Committee Attendance
The Board met twelve times during the year; the attendance of the 
directors at Board and committee meetings is provided below:
Eligible to 
attend Attended
C E Cattaneo 12 12
C T Croskery 5 5
M Emberton 12 4
M Harrison 5 5
M L W Hughes 8 8
O M A Karim 12 10
P G Stimpson 12 12
On the occasions when a director was unable to attend a meeting, 
any comments he had arising out of the relevant information pack 
received in advance of the meeting were provided to the Chairman.
The Company maintains adequate insurance cover in respect of 
possible legal actions against directors and officers as well as 
material loss or claims against the Group.
Under the Code and the Company's Articles of Association, all 
directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
following appointment and thereafter to re-election at least every 
three years. Charles Cattaneo was re-elected in 2009, Mark 
Emberton was re-elected in 2011, Philip Stimpson and Omer Karim, 
were re-elected in 2012 and Mark Hughes was elected to the 
Board in 2012 therefore all directors' elections are current.
Board Committees
The Board has two committees, an Audit Committee and a Salaries 
and Remuneration Committee, each having written terms of 
delegated responsibilities.
Corporate Governance 13 Mediwatch Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Charles Cattaneo (Chairman), 
Omer Karim and Mark Emberton. The Board considers that Charles 
Cattaneo has recent and relevant experience in accordance with 
the requirements of the Code. The committee is responsible for 
ensuring that the appropriate financial procedures and controls  
are properly maintained and reported on and for monitoring  
the external auditors and reviewing their reports relating to the 
Group's accounts and internal control systems. It also assesses the 
cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external 
auditors. It is the practice of the committee to include the 
Executive Directors.
Relationships with RSM Tenon Audit Limited the Company's 
external auditors, are dealt with largely through the Chief Financial 
Officer. In addition, RSM Tenon Audit Limited meets with the Audit 
Committee at least annually without the presence of the executive 
management. They also have direct access to the Audit Committee 
and to senior employees.
The Group uses the external auditors for non-audit services such  
as taxation advice. When appointing advisors for non-audit work, 
the Group considers the experience and objectivity required. 
The committee is satisfied that the external auditors carefully 
consider each piece of non-audit work offered, in order to ensure 
that acceptance would not impair independence. The report for 
the year under review, which was accepted by the committee, 
concluded that the external auditors were independent and that 
their objectivity was not impaired.
The committee met two times in order to review the results of  
the full audit, to approve the interim results and to review the 
performance of the external auditors. Executive Board members 
were invited to and attended both meetings.
Salaries and Remuneration Committee
The Salaries and Remuneration Committee comprises Mark 
Emberton (Chairman), Charles Cattaneo, and Omer Karim. 
The committee is responsible for reviewing the performance  
of the Executive Directors and other Senior Executives and for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration and benefits, 
including bonuses. The Board is responsible for setting the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. The committee met 
once during the financial year to review the pay and performance 
of directors and senior management in relation to bonuses and to 
consider the granting of share-based incentives. All committee 
members attended the meeting.
Shareholder Relations
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining strong 
relationships with its shareholders and the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer make presentations to, and meet 
regularly with, major shareholders as appropriate. The Company 
uses its website to encourage communication with private, existing 
and prospective shareholders, and welcomes feedback from 
investors on its published reports and website.
In compliance with AIM rules, the Company has established a 
policy and share dealing code related to dealing in the Company's 
shares by directors, employees and connected persons.
The Company also recognises that the AGM provides an important 
forum for communicating with investors and provides an 
opportunity for all shareholders to meet the Board. The Company's 
next AGM will take place on 22 April 2013 at 11:00 am and all of 
the Company's current Board of directors will be in attendance.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The internal control system is designed to manage rather  
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. 
The Board is responsible for the Company's system of internal 
controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.  
It can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review at least 
annually of the Group's system of internal controls. Such a review 
examines material controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems.