 10
Metalrax
Group PLC
Engineering
specialists
Corporate governance report
The board has studied the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance published in July 2003, which
applied to the group from the year 2004. The board
now reports how it has applied the Principles of Good
Governance and the board believes it has, save where
stated, complied with the Code provisions during 2004.
Application of the principles
The board has applied the principles in a manner
which it considers appropriate to the particular
circumstances of Metalrax Group PLC. The structure
of the group is not complicated and the activities are
focused on manufacturing and product marketing.
Direction of the group emanates from a relatively
compact head office and the emphasis is on day-to-
day contact between executive directors as well as
formal board meetings. The non-executive directors,
who are of independent mind, are appointed to
provide a balance at board meetings and to
contribute their knowledge and experience. The
finance director, who is also the company secretary, is
responsible for providing all board members with,
among other financial information, detailed monthly
accounts for every subsidiary. 
Composition of the board
The chairman until 16th November 2004 was E. S.
Moore who subsequently served as a non-executive
director. The board includes three independent non-
executive directors, being J. R. A. Crabtree who was
also chairman from 16th November 2004 and
chairman of the Nomination Committee, R. Fort who
is the senior independent non-executive director and
chairman of the Audit Committee, and J. K. Adcock
who is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
There are four executive directors, R. E. Arbuthnot,
J. G. L. Edwards, D. J. Farrimond and G. H. Gresham.
D. J. Farrimond was appointed director on 9th March
2004, replacing T. R. Jones as finance director and
company secretary on 25th May 2004 when T. R.
Jones retired from the board. The chairman, J. R. A.
Crabtree, has primary responsibility for running the
board and devotes such time to his role as is
necessary to properly discharge his duties. The chief
executive, R. E. Arbuthnot, has executive responsibility
for delivering the group's strategy and achieving
operational and financial goals. 
This year R. Fort has served on the board for over
nine years and is both retiring by rotation and
because he has more than nine years service. It is the
board's opinion that he remains independent in mind,
character and judgement. Progressive refreshment of
the board has been accomplished in recent years with
three executive directors being appointed within the
last 3 years and two independent non-executive
directors still serving their first three year term.
Operation of the board
The board meets at least four times per annum and
convenes additional meetings to consider matters that
are time critical. Additional meetings are held
annually to consider and review strategy and
opportunities arising. All directors attended all board
meetings held during the year.
The board operates to oversee the group's activities
and as a whole decides upon dividend policy,
acquisition and disposal strategy and other matters
that affect the group as a whole.
The performance of the board, its committees and
individual members are evaluated by the executive
and non-executive directors as appropriate.
The executive directors authorise major capital
expenditure, review the day-to-day activities of the
subsidiaries, manage group finances, perform
negotiations regarding acquisitions and disposals,
recruit directors of subsidiaries, and allocate resources
to manage the risk environment.
The non-executive directors under the leadership of
R. Fort are responsible for, but not restricted by, the
duties as described in the terms of reference of the
three committees, namely the Nomination Committee,
the Remuneration Committee and the Audit
Committee. Details of the terms of reference for the
committees can be found on the group website.
The day to day activities of the subsidiaries and
internal risk management are delegated to the
management teams, mainly directors of the relevant
subsidiary companies. Management decisions include
the purchase of authorised capital expenditure,
negotiating contracts for sales and purchases,
recruiting and controlling employees as necessary to
operate their respective companies.
Audit committee
The committee reviews and monitors the integrity of
the group's financial reporting and the effectiveness
of internal controls and risk management systems. It
also oversees the group's relationship with the
auditors and determines their objectiveness and
effectiveness.
Since 2003 the Audit Committee has comprised
R. Fort, who chairs the committee, J. K. Adcock and
J. R. A. Crabtree. Meetings are held at least three
times a year. Other directors may be invited to attend
and the financial director attended all meetings held
in 2004. The auditors attended two meetings during
2004 and are also authorised to speak directly to any
board member whenever they wish.
Remuneration committee
Since 2003 the Remuneration Committee has been
made up of J. K. Adcock, who chairs the committee,
R. Fort and J. R. A. Crabtree. The committee meets
whenever necessary and met as a whole three times
in 2004. The prime function of the committee is to 11
Metalrax
Group PLC
Engineering
specialists
establish and review the terms and conditions for the
executive directors. The directors' remuneration report
on page 12 shows how the principles regarding
directors' remuneration have been applied.
Nomination committee
The principal task of the committee is to ensure that
the skills, experience and age of the board is
appropriate to the group's activities to ensure its
future success.
Until 16th November 2004 the Nomination
Committee comprised E. S. Moore, who chaired the
committee, R. E. Arbuthnot, J. K. Adcock and J. R. A.
Crabtree. From 16th November 2004 J. R. A. Crabtree
chaired the committee which then comprised R. E.
Arbuthnot, R. Fort and J. K. Adcock. E. S. Moore did
not attend the meeting to establish his replacement.
The Nomination Committee met in 2003 to
consider the appointment of the finance director to
replace T. R. Jones on his retirement. Similarly the
board reviewed the strengths of the existing non-
executive directors when considering the appointment
of a new chairman. It was agreed that for a company
the current size of the group, there was no
requirement to increase the number of non-executive
directors serving on the board and that the
appointment should be made from within, where
there were several well qualified candidates.
Internal control
The directors have overall responsibility for the group's
system of internal controls and at least annually review
the effectiveness of all controls including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk
management systems. The board confirms that the
procedures which accord with the Guidance for Directors
in the Combined Code have been in place for 2004 and
up to the date of approval by the board of the directors'
report and accounts. They recognise that any system can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
The trading subsidiaries run as autonomous units,
each with responsibility for its own internal financial
control. The group's head office, which provides the
subsidiaries with back-up expertise whenever needed,
regularly monitors their activities, largely fulfilling the
role of internal auditors. The group has a
comprehensive system of financial planning and
reporting which produces inter alia detailed monthly
accounts for every subsidiary. Major capital expenditure
is subject to approval by the board. The group's
treasury operations are conducted on a conservative
basis with a view to eliminating risk so far as possible.
The risk management systems are controlled by head
office personnel. Reports are circulated to the
operating subsidiaries identifying potential areas of risk
and recommending procedures for their control. 
Shareholder relations
Both chairman and chief executive meet regularly
with institutional shareholders mainly in the periods
following the announcement of interim and final
results but also at other times, and the results of
those meetings are communicated to the directors.
Communication with private and other
shareholders is made both formally and informally at
the annual general meeting which is usually attended
by the full board.
Directors' responsibilities for financial
statements
Company law requires the directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year which give
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and of the result for that period. In
preparing those financial statements the directors are
required to:
(i) select suitable accounting policies and apply
them consistently;
(ii) make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
(iii) state whether applicable accounting standards
have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
(iv) prepare the financial statements on the going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the company will continue in
business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and to enable them to ensure that the
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
the company and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
Auditors' independence
The non-audit work undertaken in the year by the
group auditors, Bentley Jennison, has been restricted to
a single due diligence exercise which was controlled by
a tax and advisory partner with no direct involvement
in the audit. Bentley Jennison have also been involved
in the preparation of tax computations for group
companies where they are the auditor, again controlled
by a tax and advisory partner, and assisted in the
compilation of draft financial statements from
information provided by the group.
On behalf of the board
D. J. Farrimond
Director and secretary