 7 Mirada  plc
Introduction
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the good corporate governance of the Group. The principles of corporate governance
are set out in the Financial Reporting Council's revised Combined Code on corporate governance issued in 2006. Under the rules of the
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) the Group is not required to comply with the Code and the Board considers that the size of the Group
does not warrant compliance with all of the Code's requirements but has voluntarily adopted appropriate sections of the Combined Code.
This section is split into two parts. The first part sets out how the Group has applied the principles and the second part deals with compliance
with the provisions of the Code during the accounting period.
Principles of the combined code
The Board
The Board now comprises the Chairman, Michael Sinclair; the Chief Executive Officer, Jos -Luis V zquez; two non-executive directors, Richard
Blake, the Chairman of Audit Committee, and Rafael Mart n Sanz. The non-executive directors are independent of management.
Non-executive directors are appointed on a contract with a three-month notice period. The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Non-
executive directors are available for inspection from the company secretary. The executive directors are appointed on contracts with a 12-month
notice period. All directors are subject to re-election every three years. Directors appointed during the year are subject to re-election by the
shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The directors who are subject for re-election in the coming year are Jos -Luis
V zquez and Rafael Mart n Sanz. Biographies for each director can be found on the company's website.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. If required, the directors are entitled to take independent advice, and if the Board is informed in advance the cost of the advice
will be reimbursed by the Group. To discharge its governance function effectively, the board has laid down rules for its own activities in a
governance process policy. Responsibility for implementing this policy is placed on the chairman. This policy covers:
  the conduct of members at meetings
  the cycle of board activities and the setting of agendas
  the provision of timely information to the board
  board officers and their roles
  board committees, their tasks and composition
  qualifications for board membership and the process of the nomination committee
  the evaluation and assessment of board performance
  the remuneration of non-executive directors
  the process for directors to obtain independent advice
  the appointment and role of the company secretary
  approval of the annual budget and the regular update of forecasts
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
continued
8 Mirada  plc
Board meetings are scheduled to take place monthly, with additional meetings to attend to urgent matters. The respective attendance record
of each director during the period was as follows:
Directors' attendance
Remuneration
Board meetings Audit Committee Committee
Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Michael Sinclair 30 30 - - - -
Jos -Luis V zquez 3 3 - - - -
Richard Blake 25 30 2 2 1 1
Rafael Mart n Sanz 3 3 - - - -
Neil MacDonald 29 29 - - - -
John Swingewood 20 27 - - - -
Jeremy Fenn 14 27 1 2 1 1
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chief Executive Officer describes to the board how the expected outcome and goals are
intended to be delivered through regular business plans, which also encompass an assessment of the group's risks. During the period, the
board receives updates on progress towards these outcomes through actual and forecasted results.
The Chief Executive Officer is obliged to review and discuss with the board all strategic projects or developments and all material matters
currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance. This key dialogue specifically includes any materially under-performing
business activities, and material matters of a social responsibility, environmental or ethical nature.
The board also sets out how the Chief Executive Officer's performance will be monitored and recognises that, in the multitude of changing
circumstances, judgment will always be involved. The systems set out by the board are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk
of failure to achieve the goals. They provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs:
Remuneration committee
During the period the Remuneration Committee, the report of which is on pages 10 and 11, comprised the non-executive directors, Richard
Blake (Chairman of the Committee) and, up until the date of his resignation (25 February 2008) Jeremy Fenn. Rafael Mart n Sanz joined the
Remuneration Committee on 25 February 2008. It is responsible for the terms and conditions and remuneration of the executive directors and
senior management and the granting of share options to the Group's executive directors and employees. The Remuneration Committee may
consult external agencies when ascertaining market salaries. The chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available at the AGM to
answer any shareholder questions.
Audit committee
During the period the Audit Committee comprised the non-executive directors, Richard Blake (Chairman of the Committee) and, up until the
date of his resignation (25 February 2008), Jeremy Fenn. Rafael Mart n Sanz joined the committee on 25 February. Biographies detailing the
respective qualifications of the Audit Committee members are available for viewing on our website. The board considers that the membership
of the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to fulfil its duties.
The committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the company secretary, and all other
employees. The committee may take legal or professional advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
The committee meets as required, but not less than two times a year. Other directors may also attend committee meetings by invitation, but the
committee also meets privately for discussions with the external auditors who attend all its meetings.
The main roles and responsibilities of the committee are to:
  monitors the integrity of the Group's financial statements;
  review the Group's internal financial controls and risk management systems; and
  oversee the Group's relationship with the external auditors. Corporate Governance
continued
9 Mirada  plc
The main activities of the committee in the 15 months ended 31 March 2008 were:
  assessing the effectiveness of the significant financial reporting issues related to the preparation of the Group's financial statements;
  assessing the effectiveness of the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks;
  monitoring the integrity of the Group's internal financial controls;
  reviewing with the external auditor the findings of its work and the effectiveness of the external audit process;
  reviewing arrangements for staff of the company to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties in matters of financial
reporting of other matters;
  reviewing the need for, and the feasibility of, an internal audit function; and
  reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's strategic objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The process has been in place for the full period under review and up to the
date of approval of the Report and Financial Statements. The Board regularly reviews the process.
The key elements of the risk management processes and system of internal control procedures include:
  a clear organisational structure and lines of responsibility;
  the identification through reporting procedures of major financial, commercial, legal and operational risks;
  the operation of a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system and the comparison of actual results against budget;
  the periodic update of budgets and performance targets and outlook, which is reviewed by the Board; and
  the authorisation and monitoring of investment policy, acquisition and disposal proposals, and major capital expenditure.
The key processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls include the following:
  the review of the results of the risk assessment;
  review of the actual results against budget and results of the investigation of material differences for the period; and
  the review of issues raised by the external auditors.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
The Directors believe that they have complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout period ended 31 March 2008, apart from
those mentioned below.
Nomination Committee
The nomination committee comprises all the Board members. The Combined Code dictates that only non-executive directors should sit on the
nomination committee.
Non-executive directors
The Combined Code dictates that there should be an equal number of non-executive directors to executive directors on the Board. There were
three executive directors and two non-executive directors up until 25 February 2008. The three executive directors then reduced to two for the
remainder of the period. Details of appointments and resignations of directors can be found in the Directors' Report.