 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2009
review of the year c orporate governance Financial statements
 / 15 
Introduction
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the good corporate governance of the Group. The principles of corporate 
governance are set out in the Financial Reporting Council's revised Combined Code on corporate governance issued in 2006. 
Under the rules of the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) the Group is not required to comply with the Code and the Board considers 
that the size of the Group does not warrant compliance with all of the Code's requirements but has voluntarily adopted appropriate 
sections of the Combined Code. 
Principles of the combined code
The Board
The Board now comprises the Chairman, Michael Sinclair; the Chief Executive Officer, Jos -Luis V zquez; and two Non-executive Directors, 
Richard Blake, the Chairman of Audit Committee, and Rafael Mart n Sanz. The Non-executive Directors are independent of management. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed on a contract with a three-month notice period. The terms and conditions of the appointment 
of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection from the Company secretary. The Executive Directors are appointed on 
contracts with a 12-month notice period. All Directors are subject to re-election every three years. Directors appointed during the year 
are subject to re-election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The Director who is subject for re-election 
in the coming year is Richard Blake. Biographies for each Director can be found on the Company's website. 
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with. If required, the Directors are entitled to take independent advice, and if the Board is informed in advance the cost 
of the advice will be reimbursed by the Group. To discharge its governance function effectively, the Board has laid down rules for its 
own activities in a governance process policy. Responsibility for implementing this policy is placed on the Chairman. This policy covers: 
 	 the	c onduc t	of	members	a t	meetings;
 	 the	c y cle	of	B oar d	ac tivities	and	the	setting	of	agendas;
 	 the	pr o vision	of	timely	inf or ma tion	t o	the	B oar d;
 	 B oar d	offic ers	and	their	r oles;
 	 B oar d	c ommitt ees ,	their	tasks	and	c omposition;
 	 qualifica tions	f or	B oar d	membership	and	the	pr oc ess	of	the	Nomina tion	C ommitt ee;
 	 the	ev alua tion	and	assessmen t	of	B oar d	per f or manc e;
 	 the	r emuner a tion	of	Non- e x ecutiv e	Dir ec t ors;
 	 the	pr oc ess	f or	Dir ec t ors	t o	obtain	independen t	advic e;
 	 the	appoin tmen t	and	r ole	of	the	C ompan y	secr etar y ;	and	
 	 appr o v al	of	the	annual	budget	and	the	r egular	upda t e	of	f or ecasts .
Board meetings are scheduled to take place once every two months, with additional meetings to attend to urgent matters. The respective 
attendance record of each Director during the year was as follows:
Directors' attendance
     Board  Audit  Remuneration  
     meetings  Committee  Committee  
     Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Michael Sinclair      7 8        
Jos -Luis V zquez     8 8        
Richard Blake     7 8 2 2 1 1
Rafael Mart n Sanz     5 8 2 2 1 1
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chief Executive Officer describes to the Board how the expected outcome and goals are 
intended to be delivered through regular business plans, which also encompass an assessment of the Group's risks. During the year, the 
Board receives updates on progress towards these outcomes through actual and forecasted results. 
The Chief Executive Officer is obliged to review and discuss with the Board all strategic projects or developments and all material 
matters currently or prospectively affecting the Group and its performance. This key dialogue specifically includes any materially 
under-performing business activities, and material matters of a social responsibility, environmental or ethical nature. 
The Board also sets out how the Chief Executive Officer's performance will be monitored and recognises that, in the multitude of changing 
circumstances, judgement will always be involved. The systems set out by the Board are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve the goals. They provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
corporate governance
c orporate governance
_mir_ar09_back.indd   15 28/09/2009   20:28:47 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2009 16 / c orporate governance
corporate governance
- continued
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs:
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee, the report of which is on page 17, comprised the Non-executive Directors, Richard Blake 
(Chairman of the Committee) and Rafael Mart n Sanz. It is responsible for the terms and conditions and remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and senior management and the granting of share options to the Group's Executive Directors and employees. The Remuneration 
Committee may consult external agencies when ascertaining market salaries. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be 
available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any shareholder questions.
Audit Committee
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the Non-executive Directors, Richard Blake (Chairman of the Committee) and 
Rafael Mart n Sanz. Biographies detailing the respective qualifications of the Audit Committee members are available for viewing 
on our website. The Board considers that the membership of the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant 
financial experience to fulfil its duties. 
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the Company secretary, 
and all other employees. The Committee may take legal or professional advice when it believes it necessary to do so. 
The Committee meets as required, but not less than two times a year. Other Directors may also attend committee meetings 
by invitation, but the Committee also meets privately for discussions with the external auditors who attend all its meetings. 
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
 	 monit or	the	in t eg r it y	of	the	Gr oup ' s	financial	sta t emen ts;
 	 r eview	the	Gr oup ' s	in t er nal	financial	c on tr ols	and	r isk	managemen t	sy st ems;	and
 	 o v ersee	the	Gr oup ' s	r ela tionship	with	the	e x t er nal	audit ors .
The main activities of the Committee in the year ended 31 March 2009 were:
 	 assessing	the	eff ec tiv eness	of	the	sig nifican t	financial	r epor ting	issues	r ela t ed	t o	the	pr epar a tion	of	the	Gr oup ' s	financial	sta t emen ts;
 	 assessing	the	eff ec tiv eness	of	the	sy st ems	established	t o	iden tify ,	assess ,	manage	and	monit or	financial	and	non-financial	r isks;
 	 monit or ing	the	in t eg r it y	of	the	Gr oup ' s	in t er nal	financial	c on tr ols;
 	 r eviewing	with	the	e x t er nal	audit ors	the	findings	of	their	w or k	and	the	eff ec tiv eness	of	the	e x t er nal	audit	pr oc ess;	
 	 	 r eviewing	ar r angemen ts	f or	staff	of	the	Gr oup	t o	r aise	c onc er ns ,	in	c onfidenc e ,	about	possible	impr opr ieties	in	ma tt ers	of	financial	
reporting of other matters; 
 	 r eviewing	the	need	f or ,	and	the	f easibilit y	of ,	an	in t er nal	audit	func tion;	and
 	 r eviewing	the	independenc e	and	objec tivit y	of	the	e x t er nal	audit ors .
Internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's strategic objectives and can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The process has been in place for the full year under review and up 
to the date of approval of the Report and Financial Statements. The Board regularly reviews the process.
The key elements of the risk management processes and system of internal control procedures include:
 	 a	clear	or ganisa tional	struc tur e	and	lines	of	r esponsibilit y ;
 	 the	iden tifica tion	thr ough	r epor ting	pr oc edur es	of	major	financial ,	c ommer cial ,	legal	and	oper a tional	r isks;
 	 the	oper a tion	of	a	c ompr ehensiv e	budgeting	and	financial	r epor ting	sy st em	and	the	c ompar ison	of	ac tual	r esults	against	budget;
 	 the	per iodic	upda t e	of	budgets	and	per f or manc e	tar gets	and	outlook ,	which	is	r eview ed	b y	the	B oar d;	and
 	 the	author isa tion	and	monit or ing	of	in v estmen t	polic y ,	ac quisition	and	disposal	pr oposals ,	and	major	capital	e xpenditur e .
The key processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls include the following:
 	 the	r eview	of	the	r esults	of	the	r isk	assessmen t;
 	 r eview	of	the	ac tual	r esults	against	budget	and	r esults	of	the	in v estiga tion	of	ma t er ial	diff er enc es	f or	the	per iod;	and
 	 the	r eview	of	issues	r aised	b y	the	e x t er nal	audit ors .	
_mir_ar09_back.indd   16 28/09/2009   20:28:47