 36 / Misys Annual Report 2002
corporate governance report
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate
governance. The Board is accountable to the Company's
shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs
of the Group. Throughout the period under review, the Company
has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
THE BOARD
The Misys Board currently comprises the executive Chairman, four
other executive Directors and five non-executive Directors including
the senior non-executive Director, Sir Dominic Cadbury. Three
additional executive Directors are to be appointed on 18 July 2002.
Their biographies appear on page 33. The Board demonstrates a
range of business, financial and international experience, which is
vital to the successful direction of a global company.  
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of the
Company's business and determines group strategy, reviews trading
performance, ensures adequate funding and examines major
investments. To enable them to do this, all Directors have full and
timely access to all relevant information and from time to time the
Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on
new opportunities for the Group or other matters of significance.
The Board meets at least eight times a year, aiming to hold one
meeting each year in the US. 
The non-executive Directors, all of whom are  independent' as
defined in the Combined Code, fulfil a vital role in corporate
accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear on
issues brought before the Board and Board committee meetings.
They bring considerable knowledge and experience from other
areas of business and public life and their views carry significant
weight in the Board's decisions.
The Board is aware of the guidance contained in the Combined
Code on situations where the offices of Chairman and Chief
Executive officer are combined. In the case of Misys, the Board
believes that there is a sufficient distribution of responsibilities at
the top of the Company to ensure that effective power is not
unduly concentrated in the hands of one individual. Although the
Company has an executive Chairman, the Managing Director has
responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the Company's
businesses, and the Board shares responsibility for the strategic
development of the Group. In addition, as described above, the
Board has a high-quality and independent non-executive element,
led by Sir Dominic Cadbury as senior non-executive Director.
A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate
circumstances, to take independent professional advice in respect
of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the Group. All
Directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and
services. The Board provides the Directors with appropriate training
to fulfil their role on the Board.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Responsibilities at Board level are divided among five principal
Board Committees, which operate within defined terms of
reference. These are complemented by an active internal audit
function. Further details on internal control are provided in the
section below. 
For the first three months of the period under review, the
Executive Committee was responsible for the day-to-day running
of the Group's operating companies within the clearly defined
limits delegated by the Board. The Committee comprised all the
executive Directors and met monthly. On 1 September 2001, as a
further step in the development of the management structure of
the Group, the functions and responsibilities of the Executive
Committee were transferred to the Group Operating Board. This
Board has responsibility for the development and implementation
of Group strategy as well as day-to-day operational management.
The Group Operating Board comprises the executive Directors, the
Chief Executives of the operating divisions, the Director of Business
Development and, since 1 June 2002, the Chief Technology Officer
and the Group Human Resources Director. The Group Operating
Board is chaired by Kevin Lomax and meets monthly.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Tony Alexander, consists of 
all the non-executive Directors and meets at least twice a year, 
with the Finance Director and the external auditors, and with the
internal auditors invited to attend as appropriate. The Committee
reviews and discusses the intended publication of results, the
effectiveness and reliability of internal control, any changes to
financial reporting requirements and matters arising from internal
audit and the annual Group audit. 
The Committee recognises that the independence of the Group's
auditors is of paramount importance to shareholders and therefore
monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the Group's auditors to
help ensure there are no conflicts of interest.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury,
consists of all the non-executive Directors and meets as necessary,
liaising closely with the Chairman. It assesses the suitability of
persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate,
nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board. The
Committee has a key role in planning for the succession of senior
executives and performs regular assessments of the Directors and 
the workings of the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by George Gray, consists
of all the non-executive Directors and meets when necessary, but
usually not less than twice a year. Executive Directors are invited 
to attend the Committee's meetings as the members consider
appropriate. Details of the Committee's main functions, and its
remuneration policies for the Company's Directors and senior
executives, are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 38.
The General Purposes Committee transacts the routine business
of the Board. The Committee operates within clearly defined terms
of reference and financial limits. It meets when necessary and
reports to the Board on its decisions on a regular basis. All the
executive Directors, together with the Company Secretary, are
members of the Committee, with a minimum of two members
required to attend. www.misys.com / 37
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining regular
communications with its investors. Executive members of the Board
hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders,
including presentations following the interim and final results
announcements. In addition, business and market briefings are
held throughout the year to ensure that the analysts and investing
community receive a broader view of the Group's operations and
the issues faced by the business.
The principal communication with private investors is through the
Company's website (www.misys.com), the annual report and
financial statements, the interim report and the AGM. All the
Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders 
with the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board. 
The Company responds as necessary to enquiries from individual
shareholders on a wide range of issues. 
The financial and other information, including presentations to
analysts and investors in video, audio and text formats, is made
available on the Company's website. Further details are contained
in the Investor Information section on the inside back cover.
AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE
The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors
(PricewaterhouseCoopers) and concluded that there are sufficient
controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of
independence.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group's system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system 
of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risks to which the Group is exposed and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The following describes the main features 
of the Group's system of internal control.
RISK MANAGEMENT 
There is an ongoing process for identifying and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group. This process involves the
evaluation, at both Group and business unit level, of the principal
risks to which the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed. 
Risks are evaluated according to the impact of a risk failure and 
the likelihood of it occuring. For each of the principal risks,
confirmation is required that systems are in place which enable 
them to be monitored and controlled. The systems are subject to
separate review and, for certain risks, audit. In addition, business
units are required to report on the factors that may, or will,
mitigate the impact of any adverse consequences arising from
these risks. The Group-wide and business unit risks are reviewed 
by the Group Operating Board and reported to the Board.
OPERATING UNIT CONTROLS 
Business unit performance and internal control is monitored by
regular Board and management meetings, attended by Misys 
executive and Divisional Directors. Financial controls and
procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is
circulated to all business units. Written confirmation of compliance
with internal financial control policies is obtained from the finance
directors and general managers of the operating units. In addition,
compliance with the Group's policies and procedures is monitored
by means of regular visits to operating units by the Group's
financial management.
INVESTMENT APPRAISAL
Clear guidelines define the levels of authority and review
procedures for major development projects, contractual and other
commitments of a revenue nature, capital expenditure and due
diligence requirements. 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
A comprehensive budgeting process takes place annually
throughout the Group culminating in Group and business profit,
cash flow and investment budgets being formally approved by the
Board. Actual results and cash flows, compared with budget, are
reported on a monthly basis and these, together with regular
updated forecasts, are reviewed by the Board. The Group places a
high emphasis on cash generation which is monitored by way of
weekly and monthly cash reporting throughout the Group. In
addition, the Group has identified a number of other key areas
which are subject to regular reporting to the Board; these include
reports on taxation and treasury matters and legal issues, the
policies in respect of which are themselves reviewed, at least
annually, by the appropriate Committee of the Board.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The internal audit function assesses at operating unit level, key
financial controls and compliance with the Group's policies and
procedures through a structured review process. The Group
functions, including Group Treasury, are also reviewed as part of
internal audit's work plan. The work plan and key findings of the
internal audit process are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The above process has been in place during the financial year
ended 31 May 2002 and up to the date of the approval of the
Annual Report and Accounts. The Directors have reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group's internal controls.
On behalf of the Board
Paul Waters
Company Secretary 
17 July 2002