 16
Modern Water plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Co Rpo RAte gove Rn An Ce st Atement
Corporate governance 
As an AIm-listed company, modern Water plc is not required to issue a statement of compliance with the principles and provisions of the 2008 
Combined Code on Corporate g overnance ( the Combined Code'). However, the Board of modern Water plc is committed to the principles 
of good corporate governance. t his report, together with the information contained in the directors' remuneration report on pages 19 to 21, 
explains how the directors seek to apply the requirements of the Combined Code to the g roup, where practical given its size, resources and 
stage of development.
Board of directors 
t he Board comprises the executive Chairman (n eil mcDougall), the Chief executive o fficer (simon Humphrey) and three non-executive 
directors (michael g radon, mike t ownend and Robert Clarke). mike t ownend is a representative of Ip g roup plc. t he other two non-executive 
directors are independent. Robert Clarke was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 
17 June 2010. o n the same date paul shepherd and t revor Jones retired from the Board. o n 14 september 2010, Robert Clarke took over from  
michael g radon as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
t he business and management of the g roup and its subsidiaries are the collective responsibility of the Board. At each meeting the Board 
considers and reviews the performance of each of the major projects. t he Board has a formal written schedule of matters reserved for its 
review and approval. t hese include the approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure, investment proposals, the interim and annual 
results, and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management. Additionally the Board approves the three year business plan 
of the g roup. t here are two standing committees of the Board: Audit and Remuneration. each of these committees acts within defined terms 
of reference. Additional information is set out later in this report and also in the directors' remuneration report in respect of the Remuneration 
Committee. In addition there is an executive Committee whose purpose is to assist the Chief executive o fficer in the performance of his duties.
Authority for the execution of the approved policies, business plan and daily running of the business is delegated to the executive directors. 
modern Water plc's Articles of Association require one third of the directors to stand for re-election each year at the Annual g eneral meeting. 
Accordingly, simon Humphrey and Robert Clarke will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual g eneral meeting. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and 
applicable rules and regulations are observed. t he Board has a procedure whereby any director may seek, through the office of the Company 
secretary, independent professional advice, at the g roup's expense, in furtherance of his duties. Formal agendas and reports are provided to the 
Board on a timely basis for Board and committee meetings and the executive Chairman ensures that all directors are properly briefed on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings. Directors are able to obtain further advice or seek clarity on issues raised at the meetings from within the 
g roup or from external sources. 
Remuneration Committee 
Details of the committee and its policies are set out in the directors' remuneration report on pages 19 to 21. 
t he committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company secretary).
Audit Committee 
t he Audit Committee consists of Robert Clarke (Chairman, Audit Committee), michael g radon and mike t ownend. t he executive directors are 
not members of the committee but attend the meetings by invitation, as necessary, to facilitate its business. 
t he committee has formal terms of reference (approved on 19 september 2007 and available on request from the Company secretary). 
t hese include the recommendation of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors, the review of the scope and 
results of the interim review and external annual audit by the auditors, their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity. t he committee also 
reviews the nature and extent of any non-audit services provided by the external auditors. n o independence issues were noted during the year. 
t he Chief executive o fficer monitors the level and nature of non-audit services and specific assignments are identified for approval by the Audit 
Committee as appropriate.
In addition, the committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, considers the need for an internal audit function and considers any major 
accounting issues and reports on such matters to the Board. t he committee reviews the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements.
A whistle-blowing arrangement exists whereby matters can be confidentially reported to the committee.  17
Modern Water plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Attendance
t he following table shows attendance of the directors at meetings of the Board, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year: 
Board Remuneration Audit
Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend
Neil McDougall 9 9        
Simon Humphrey 9 9        
Michael Gradon 9 9 3 3 3 3
Paul Shepherd 3 4 3 3 1 1
Trevor Jones 3 4 3 3 1 1
Mike Townend 9 9 3 3 3 3
Robert Clarke 5 5     2 2
Principal risks and uncertainties
t he principal risks and uncertainties affecting the g roup and the steps taken to manage these are:
Early stage operations
t he g roup's operations are at an early stage of development. t here are significant risks associated with developing a portfolio of new products. 
t here are technological risks of transferring products from laboratory conditions to full commercial operation, which the g roup seeks to mitigate 
through scaling up with pilot plants prior to full commercial deployment. t here are risks related to developing the optimum contract, royalty and 
licensing models to derive value from the products. t he g roup manages these risks through employment of executives and senior management with 
significant experience both in the water industry and in the development and growth of early stage companies.
Market acceptance of the Group's technologies 
t he g roup's success depends on market acceptance of its products. t here are significant risks in predicting the size and timing of material revenue. 
t he target markets of the g roup's products are often in developing countries which carry additional risks. t he g roup seeks to address these risks 
by building a track record and proving technology capabilities to future clients and industry players. t he g roup has increased investment in business 
development as development of the products progresses. t he g roup has formed a number of strategic partnerships to create local presence in 
target markets, overcome pre-qualification criteria on contract tendering and establish routes to market. t he range of applications for the g roup's 
products provides mitigation against the risk of failure in a specific market or application. t he g roup continues to invest in research and development 
(R&D) to mitigate the risk of the emergence of competitor technologies.
IP protection
t he g roup's ability to generate value from its products depends in part on the development and protection of its Ip. t he g roup assigns significant 
resources, both internally through the Company's g eneral Counsel and externally through patent attorneys, to enhance and protect its patented and 
non-patented Ip.
Recruitment and retention of key personnel 
t he g roup's directors and employees are highly qualified and experienced. t he risk of staff loss is mitigated through its HR policies, competitive 
remuneration (including the modern Water Incentive plan), performance appraisals and training.
Health and safety 
t he g roup meets Health and safety requirements through its corporate Health and safety policy, which includes the monthly reporting of any events 
to the executive Committee.
Financial risks
t hese risks and mitigating controls are described in note 3 to the accounts.
Corporate governance 18
Modern Water plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Internal control 
t he Board has overall responsibility for the g roup's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. t he implementation and 
maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management. 
t he internal control system is designed to mitigate the principal risks detailed above, but it does not provide absolute assurance that these risks are 
eliminated or against material misstatement or loss. t he Board is satisfied with the controls in place for identification and management of risk and that 
the reporting lines have been in place throughout the period under review. t he key internal controls in place during the year and up to the date of 
approval of the report included:
   reporting to the Board each month, including key financial information and commentary (g roup profit and loss, g roup balance sheet, g roup 
cash flow) and the Chief executive o fficer's report on the business, significant changes and the external marketplace, including the extent to which 
they represent significant risk;
   detailed corporate policies and procedures document to address key operating and compliance risk areas, including procurement, treasury, 
human resources, health and safety. t hese are reviewed and updated at least annually;
  clear organisational structure with definite reporting lines and delegated authorities;
  the Audit Committee, with a formal terms of reference;
  centralised accounts team providing financial control and support to all g roup companies; and
  an annual strategy review and an annual budget approved by the Board.
t he Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but because of the size and nature of its operations does not consider it necessary 
at the current time. 
Relations with shareholders and investors 
Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts are issued to all shareholders. Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim statement 
are available on the website: www.modernwater.co.uk. t he g roup makes full use of its website to provide information to shareholders and other 
interested parties. shareholders are given the opportunity to raise questions at the Annual g eneral meeting and the directors are available both 
prior to and after the meeting for further discussion with shareholders. During the year, the executive Chairman met with institutional investors 
at meetings arranged by the g roup's brokers and financial pR advisers. michael g radon, as senior Independent n on-executive Director, is available 
to shareholders where contact through the normal channels of executive Chairman, Chief executive o fficer or Company secretary are inappropriate 
or have failed to resolve concerns. 
 
Co Rpo RAte gove Rn An Ce st Atement
Cont Inue D