 Morson Group PLC  Annual Report 2011
30
www.morson.com
Chairman's Introduction
I would like to endorse the following Corporate Governance Report 
and set out some further comments and observations on this area 
and to confirm to all stakeholders in our Group that this is a matter 
very carefully considered and appraised by the entire Board.
Morson has now been in business for a considerable time and the 
processes, systems and procedures have of course grown and 
evolved enormously through this period. We have this year 
exceeded  0.5 billion in revenues and recognise the need to 
ensure that improvement and change, in all areas of our business, 
keeps pace with the dynamic business environment we operate in.
Since founding the business in 1969 the ethos adopted has been 
to act in a professional manner and to strive to be the best at 
what we do. This extends into proper and responsible 
management and forward thinking for the protection and 
progression of the business for the benefit of all involved. As such 
the entry of the Group onto the AIM market in 2006 represented 
more of a continuum of governance, though this event and the 
changing legal framework have helped shape our approach over 
recent years.
I and your Board believe in maintaining the integrity and 
professionalism that the Group encourages throughout  
our workforce. We are committed to an open, honest and 
respectful work environment, recognising that this flows  
to our staff, customers and suppliers and to providing a firm  
and fair foundation for the ongoing proper governance within  
our organisation.
Board Governance Framework
The Board of Directors of Morson Group PLC (the Board ) is 
committed to and is responsible for achieving high standards of 
corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all of its 
activities. Whilst the Group is not required under the AIM Rules 
for Companies to comply with the provisions set out in the 2010 
UK Corporate Governance Code that was issued in 2010 by the 
Financial Reporting Council (the Code ) and this Corporate 
Governance Report is not intended to meet the disclosure 
requirements of the Code, the Board recognises the value of the 
Code and has chosen to provide selected disclosures which it 
believes are necessary or valuable to readers.
The Board note that to date the Board comprises only one 
independent Non-Executive Director. We recognise that this 
would not satisfy the requirements of the Code, but that it does 
satisfy the AIM Rules and the Company believes that the activity 
of the Board is not compromised, recognising the experience and 
expertise of Mr I G Knight, the Non-Executive Director, the input 
of the Non-Executive Chairman G G Mason and the Executive 
team. In the coming year the Board will continue to consider the 
composition of the Board and keep this matter under review.
Gerry Mason
Non-Executive Chairman 
29 March 2012
Directors
The Board has committed to meet not less than eleven times 
throughout the year and consists of a Non-Executive Chairman,  
a Non-Executive Director and three Executive Directors. Details  
of the Board are set out on pages 24 and 25. The Board considers 
that the Non-Executive Director I G Knight, who served 
throughout the year, is independent of the Executive Directors 
and is free from any business or other relationships that might 
materially interfere with his exercise of independent judgement. 
The Non-Executive Chairman, G G Mason, may not be regarded 
as strictly independent in terms of the Combined Code however 
the Board, in valuing his contribution, considers that he acts 
independently and professionally at all times. The Non-Executive 
Chairman and Directors bring experience at a senior level of 
business operations and strategy and an expanse of knowledge 
and expertise gained from other areas of business and public life. 
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval 
which includes Group strategy, acquisitions and disposals of any 
subsidiary undertaking, review of any significant risks facing the 
Group, appointment of key advisers, the consideration of major 
capital projects and significant financing matters. The Board also 
reviews the strategic direction of each of the Group's subsidiary 
operating divisions, their annual budgets and progress towards 
the achievement of those budgets.
The Board has delegated authority to Audit and Remuneration 
Committees, whose duties are summarised below. The Chairman 
of each Committee will be present at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee was chaired by Non-Executive Director 
I G Knight.
The Committee met three times during the past financial year. 
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which 
include reviewing the effectiveness of financial reporting and 
internal control procedures, monitoring the integrity of the 
financial statements of the Group and any significant financial 
reporting judgements contained therein and reviewing the fees, 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Group's external auditor has unrestricted access to the  
Audit Committee and attended all Audit Committee meetings 
held during the year. The Audit Committee has discussed  
matters with the external auditor outside those meetings.  
The Executive Directors may attend Audit Committee meetings 
only through invitation.
The Audit Committee monitors the non-audit advice that the 
Group receives from its auditor firm and is careful to assess and 
make appropriate enquiry to ensure the integrity, objectivity and 
independence of the auditor with respect to both audit and 
non-audit services are maintained.
In considering the future auditor of the Group the Committee 
reviews and assess appropriately the services and expertise 
required to fulfil the role in order to appoint a capable and 
professional provider of these services. 
Corporate Governance Report 31
Delivering skills - Applying expertise
Corporate Governance
Morson Group PLC  Annual Report 2011
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 32 to 35 and 
includes details of the Committee.
Main Board Meetings and Attendance
Directors are encouraged to attend all Board meetings and 
meetings of Committees of which they are members. The 
Chairman and the Company Secretary plan the programme for 
the meetings, including regular attendance by a range of Senior 
Executives from within the Group. Detailed Board packs include 
financial results, business tender information, reports on 
operational issues and notes on other matters reserved for the 
Board. The Company continues to maintain Directors and officers' 
liability insurance.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of 
internal financial and operational controls and the ongoing review 
of their effectiveness. These controls are designed to safeguard 
the Group's assets and the investment of shareholders. However, 
any system of internal control can only manage rather than 
eliminate risks and consequently such controls do not provide 
absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. The main 
features of the Group's internal control systems include:
Allocation of Responsibilities
The Board has considered and set terms of reference for its Chief 
Executive and Executive Directors which include the day-to-day 
responsibility for the management and operations of the 
business. In addition the Group has clearly defined delegation of 
authority and authorisation limits to Executive Management. This 
is clearly communicated to the employees of the business by the 
Executive Directors.
Risk Identification
The Board is responsible for identifying the main business risks 
faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate actions 
necessary to manage those risks.
Financial Reporting and Control
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial 
results to the Board. Each key trading division prepares monthly 
management information which includes comparison against 
budget, forecast and prior year. These results are considered by 
the management teams of each operating division. Both 
operating and financial reports are prepared for the Group Board 
and actions arising from the review of these reports are attributed 
as appropriate.
 
Investment Appraisal
Capital expenditure is regulated by authorisation limits. The 
acquisition of any business is subject to appropriate due diligence 
being undertaken and conditional upon receiving Board approval.
Disaster Recovery
The Group has established procedures over the security of  
data held on IT systems and has put in place disaster  
recovery arrangements.
Internal Audit
The Group does not currently have a full internal audit function. 
There are, however, particular areas of the business that are 
monitored and reported on as this capability continues to 
develop. For example there are formal internal assessments of the 
operation of quality assurance procedures and internal health and 
safety audits carried out across the Group. The Board, and in 
particular the Audit Committee, will continue to review the need 
to put in place further elements of an internal audit function 
taking into account the size and nature of the Group.
Investor Relations
The Board places significant importance on maintaining good 
communications with shareholders. The Executive Directors are 
available to meet with institutional shareholders and analysts after 
the announcement of both the interim and final results and have 
and will undertake such meetings, whenever reasonably 
requested by shareholders and analysts, at other points during 
the course of the year. The Interim and Annual Reports are sent to 
all shareholders and all shareholders are invited to attend the 
Company's Annual General Meeting. The Group's investor 
relations section on the corporate website (www.morson.com) 
contains information on current activities, including annual and 
interim results.
 