 Corporate governance
The Group is committed to managing its affairs in accordance with the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and the Code
Provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance incorporated into the Listing Rules issued by 
the Financial Services Authority (the Code ).
The provisions of the code are split into four areas described below:
Board and committee structure
On 19 September 2003 the Board's structure was changed from consisting of two executive and two non-executive Directors 
to two executive and six non-executive Directors. The non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of management
and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
On 13 October 2003 Rodney Westhead was appointed as senior non-executive Director. The profiles of the Directors are shown 
on pages 26 and 27.
The Board meets on a regular monthly basis and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it. It is responsible for overall Group
strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, consideration of significant financial
matters and review of the significant risks facing the business, thereby retaining full and effective control of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Group's expense. In accordance with the Company's Articles of
Association, one third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
The Group Executive (previously the Group Management Board) is responsible for the management of the business and meets
monthly. The Chief Executive chairs the Group Executive and other members comprise the Group Finance Director, Group Company
Secretary, Group Business Development and Communications Director, the Managing Directors of the business streams and the
Group Human Resources Director.
The Audit Committee met four times this year and meets at least three times a year. Following the merger, the composition of the
Audit Committee was changed on 13 October 2003. The committee during the year comprised Richard Benton and Ian Knight. 
On 13 October 2003 Richard Benton resigned and Jim Harding, Richard Archer and Rodney Westhead were appointed. The
committee will be chaired by Ian Knight. This committee has responsibility, within agreed terms of reference, for, among other
things, the planning and reviewing of the Group's annual and interim financial statements and the supervision of its auditors in 
the review of such financial statements. The committee focuses on the Group's compliance with legal requirements, accounting
standards and the Listing Rules and on ensuring that effective systems for internal control and for reporting non-financial 
operating data are maintained. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and 
interim statements remains with the Board.
In the past, selection and appointment of executive and non-executive Directors was carried out by the Board itself. On 13 October
2003 a Nominations Committee consisting of Richard Benton, Ian Knight, Professor Sir Michael Lyons and Rodney Westhead 
was established. Richard Benton will chair this committee.
The Remuneration Committee met four times this year and meets at least twice a year. The composition of the committee was
changed on 13 October 2003. During the year the committee comprised Richard Benton and Ian Knight. On 13 October 2003 Ian
Knight resigned and Rodney Westhead and Professor Sir Michael Lyons were appointed. The committee will be chaired by Professor
Sir Michael Lyons. This committee has responsibility for determining, within agreed terms of reference, the Group's policy on the
remuneration of senior executives and specific remuneration packages for executive Directors, including pension rights and
compensation payments. It is also responsible for making recommendations for grants of options under the Share Schemes.
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2003 31 Corporate governance
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 34 to 38. This report contains details of the remuneration policy and the remuneration 
of the Directors for the year.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's internal financial and operational controls and review of their effectiveness.
They are designed to meet the specific needs of the Group and to safeguard shareholders' investments and Group assets. 
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main features operated during the year are as follows:
  Strategic control. The Board reviews the Group's strategic plans once a year at a strategy event. Progress is monitored at
monthly Group Executive meetings.
  Allocation of responsibilities and control environment. The Board has set clear terms of reference for its committees and 
the Group has an organisational structure with clearly defined delegation of authority to executive management and reporting
systems for financial results, risk exposure and control assessment.
  Financial control. The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board. Each business stream
prepares monthly results with a comparison against budget and forecast. The Group Finance Director holds a monthly review
meeting with each of the managing directors of the individual business streams. Actions are identified and a financial report
prepared for the Board for review of the Group as a whole.
  IT systems. The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of data held on IT systems and has put 
in place disaster recovery arrangements.
  Business stream controls. Each business stream's senior management is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing 
major business risks. Procedures are in place to ensure that risks are identified from project bidding stage through to project
completion and include reviews against key performance indicators.
  Risk management. The Board has overall responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing major business risks facing 
the Group. It regularly reviews business unit assessments of risk exposure and control and determines appropriate action.
  Internal audit. The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and decided that no such function was
necessary due to the size and nature of the Company. The Board reviews the need for an internal audit function annually.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business. The process
involves monthly reports, by management, of the risk and internal control issues faced by their business. These risks are then
reported to the Group Executive and the Board are kept fully appraised of any risks and internal control issues coming out of
these reports.
The Board have conducted a review of the process and made changes where necessary in accordance with the provisions 
of the Turnbull Guidance.
Relations with shareholders
The Board places considerable importance on maintaining good communications with shareholders. The Group's website
(www.mouchelparkman.com) provides regularly updated information in relation to the Group's activities and financial performance.
All shareholders are notified of the Annual General Meeting and have at least 20 working days' notice of such. The Annual General
Meeting gives the shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and raise questions as they wish. Rodney Westhead, the
senior non-executive, is available to be contacted by shareholders, if required.
Going concern
Following a review of the Group's financial results and forecasts the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2003 32 Statement of compliance
The Company has complied with the provisions stated in Section 1 of the Combined Code since its admission to the London
Stock Exchange on 28 June 2002 with the exception of the items below:
  Number of non-executive Directors: Until 19 September 2003 the number of non-executive Directors did not comply with 
Code provision D.3.1 which recommends that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three non-executive Directors. 
On 13 October 2003 the Audit Committee was changed to include four non-executive Directors and will therefore comply with
the Code going forward.
  There was not a nominated senior non-executive Director as required by the Code provision A.2.1 for the period under review,
however on 13 October 2003 Rodney Westhead was appointed to this role.
  Pensionable bonuses: Jim Harding is entitled to a pensionable bonus of up to 45 per cent. of salary. Accordingly, any bonus
paid to Jim Harding may affect his entitlement under the Mouchel Superannuation Fund. Provision 7 of Schedule A to the
Combined Code (Provisions on the Design of Performance Related Remuneration) states that in general neither annual bonus 
nor benefits in kind should be pensionable. However, Jim Harding retired as an executive Director on 19 September 2003 and
will therefore no longer be entitled to a pensionable bonus.
The Board have reviewed the provisions of the new Combined Code and intend to adopt these provisions in the next financial year.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf:
Richard Preece
Secretary
29 October 2003
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2003 33