 Corporate governance
The Group is committed to managing its affairs in accordance with the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and the Code
Provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance incorporated into the Listing Rules issued by 
the Financial Services Authority (the Code ).
This statement describes how the Group applies the principles of the Code. In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council published
a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which will apply for the year ending 31 July 2005. The Board has reviewed
the provisions of the new Combined Code and is working towards ensuring satisfactory compliance. The Group will report formally 
on compliance with the new Code, as required under the Listing Rules, next year.
The provisions of the Code are split into four areas described below:
Board and committee structure
On 19 September 2003 the Board's structure was changed from consisting of two executive and two non-executive Directors 
to two executive and six non-executive Directors; two non-executive Directors subsequently resigned during the year. The 
non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationships 
that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Since the merger, the non-executive Directors
have met once without the Chairman being present. On 13 October 2003 Rodney Westhead was appointed as senior 
non-executive Director. The profiles of the Directors is shown on page 26.
The Board meets on a regular monthly basis and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it. It is responsible for overall 
Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, consideration of significant
financial matters and review of the significant risks facing the business, thereby retaining full and effective control of the Group.
The Board has held a joint meeting with the Group Executive during this year to review Group strategy.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Group's expense. In accordance with the Company's Articles of
Association, one third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
The Group Executive is responsible for the management of the business and meets monthly. The Chief Executive chairs the Group
Executive and other members comprise the Finance Director, Company Secretary, the Managing Directors of the business streams,
the Human Resources Director and the Business Transformation Director.
The Audit Committee met four times this year. Following the merger, the composition of the Audit Committee was changed 
on 13 October 2003. At the start of the year, the committee comprised Richard Benton and Ian Knight. On 13 October 2003 
Richard Benton resigned and Jim Harding, Richard Archer and Rodney Westhead were appointed. The committee is chaired by
Ian Knight. With the retirements of Richard Archer and Jim Harding, the committee currently comprises Ian Knight and Rodney
Westhead. This committee has responsibility, within agreed terms of reference, for, among other things, the planning and reviewing 
of the Group's annual and interim financial statements and the supervision of its auditors in the review of such financial statements.
The committee focuses on the Group's compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules and on
ensuring that effective systems for internal control and for reporting non-financial operating data are maintained. The ultimate
responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and interim statements remains with the Board.
In the past, selection and appointment of executive and non-executive Directors was carried out by the Board itself. On 13 October
2003 a Nominations Committee consisting of Richard Benton, Ian Knight, Professor Sir Michael Lyons and Rodney Westhead 
was established. Richard Benton chairs this committee.
The Remuneration Committee met six times this year. At the start of the year the committee comprised Richard Benton and 
Ian Knight. On 13 October 2003 Ian Knight resigned and Rodney Westhead and Professor Sir Michael Lyons were appointed. The
committee is chaired by Professor Sir Michael Lyons. This committee has responsibility for determining, within agreed terms of
reference, the Group's policy on the remuneration of senior executives and specific remuneration packages for executive Directors,
including pension rights and compensation payments. It is also responsible for making recommendations for grants of options
under the Share Schemes.
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 31 Corporate governance
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 32
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 34 to 38. This report contains details of the remuneration policy and the remuneration 
of the Directors for the year.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's internal financial and operational controls and review of their effectiveness.
They are designed to meet the specific needs of the Group and to safeguard shareholders' investments and Group assets. 
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main features operated during the year are as follows:
  Strategic control. The Board reviews the Group's strategic plans once a year at a strategy event. Progress is monitored at
Board and Group Executive meetings.
  Allocation of responsibilities and control environment. The Board has reviewed and set clear terms of reference for its
committees and the Group has an organisational structure with clearly defined delegation of authority to executive management 
and reporting systems for financial results, risk exposure and control assessment.
  Financial control. The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board. Each business stream
prepares monthly results with a comparison against budget and forecast. The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold a
monthly review meeting with each of the managing directors of the individual business streams. Actions are identified and a
financial report prepared for the Board for review of the Group as a whole.
  IT systems. The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of data held on IT systems and has put 
in place disaster recovery arrangements.
  Business stream controls. Each business stream's senior management is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing
major business risks. Procedures are in place to ensure that risks are identified from project bidding stage through to project
completion and include reviews against key performance indicators.
  Risk management. The Board has overall responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing major business risks facing 
the Group. It regularly reviews business unit assessments of risk exposure and control and determines appropriate action.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business. The process
involves monthly reports, by management, of the risk and internal control issues faced by their business. These risks are then reported
to the Group Executive and the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and internal control issues arising from these reports.
A bid committee meets fortnightly and reviews all material bids.
  Internal audit. The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and decided that no such function is necessary
due to the size and nature of the Company. The Board reviews the need for an internal audit function annually.
The Board have conducted a review of the process and made changes where necessary in accordance with the provisions 
of the Turnbull Guidance.
Relations with shareholders
The Board places considerable importance on maintaining good communications with shareholders. The Group's website
(www.mouchelparkman.com) provides regularly updated information in relation to the Group's activities and financial performance.
All shareholders are notified of the Annual General Meeting and have at least 20 working days' notice of such. The Annual General
Meeting gives the shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and raise questions as they wish. Rodney Westhead, the
senior non-executive, is available to be contacted by shareholders, if required.
Going concern
Following a review of the Group's financial results and forecasts the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.  Corporate governance
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 33
Statement of compliance
The Company has complied with the provisions stated in Section 1 of the Combined Code since its admission to the London
Stock Exchange on 28 June 2002 with the exception of the items below:
  Number of non-executive Directors: Until 19 September 2003 the number of non-executive Directors did not comply with 
Code provision D.3.1 which recommends that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three non-executive Directors. 
On 13 October 2003 the Audit Committee was changed to include four non-executive Directors, but following resignations, 
the members reduced to two. Its composition is now compliant with the requirements of the new Combined Code.
  On 13 October 2003 Rodney Westhead was appointed as the senior non-executive Director as required by the Code provision
A.2.1. Prior to this there was not a nominated senior non-executive Director.
  Pensionable bonuses: Jim Harding was entitled to a pensionable bonus of up to 45% of salary whilst he was an executive Director.
Accordingly, any bonus paid to Jim Harding may affect his entitlement under the Mouchel Superannuation Fund. Provision 7 
of Schedule A to the Combined Code (Provisions on the Design of Performance Related Remuneration) states that in general
neither annual bonus nor benefits in kind should be pensionable. No current Directors are entitled to pensionable bonuses.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf:
Amanda Massie
Secretary
18 October 2004