 22
Naibu Global International Company plc Annual Report 2013
Corporate Governance Report
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The directors recognise the value of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code ), and whilst under AIM rules full 
compliance is not required, the directors believe that the company applies the recommendations insofar as is practicable 
and appropriate for a public company of its size.
THE BOARD
The Board of Directors is composed of six members, three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. The 
Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees with formally delegated duties, responsibilities and written 
terms of reference. From time to time, separate committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues as 
and when the need arises.
The Group holds several meetings per annum, at which the Directors review the Group's performance and all other 
important issues to ensure control is maintained over the Group's affairs. The Directors are kept well informed of the 
Group's performance, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Group and that should be brought to 
the attention of the Directors.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Group, and the Directors believe that any changes to the Board's 
composition can be managed without undue disruption. With any new appointment of a Director to the Board, 
consideration will be given as to whether a formal induction process is appropriate. The Board believes that the mix of 
the skills, experience, ages and lengths of service are appropriate to the requirements of the Group.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and 
confirms that this review has been conducted during the period. However, the system of internal control is designed to 
manage the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives. It cannot totally eliminate the risk of failure but will 
provide reasonable, although not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Company, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group's risk management 
framework. The Group's risk management policies are established to set out its overall business strategies, tolerance of 
risk and general risk management philosophy. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect 
changes in market conditions and the Group's activities.
Business plans and budgets are prepared annually by the management and subject to review and approval by the 
Board. Reforecasts for the current year are prepared on a regular basis, reviewed for variances to the budget and for 
approval. When setting budgets and reforecasts, management identifies, evaluates and reports on the likelihood and 
potential financial impact of significant business risks.
The executive directors review monthly management reports on the financial results and key operating statistics and 
discuss with the executive management team and senior management of business operations to review these reports, 
business performance against budgets, forecasts, significant business risk sensitivities and strategies. 23
Naibu Global International Company plc Annual Report 2013
Corporate Governance Report (Continued)
The main risks which the Group faces are market risk (comprising interest rate, foreign currency and price risk), credit 
risk and liquidity risk. Further details are given in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises all three Non-Executive Directors, Giles Elliott, David Thomas and Stephen Cheung. It is 
chaired by Stephen Cheung.
The Audit Committee helps the Board discharge its responsibilities regarding financial reporting, external and internal 
audits and controls as well as reviewing the Group's annual financial statements. It also reviews and monitors the 
effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for the scope and effectiveness of the external audit and compliance by the Group 
with statutory and regulatory requirements. The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of the 
external Auditors, reviews their fees and the audit plan. It approves the external Auditors' terms of engagement, their 
remuneration and any non-audit work.
The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process by discussing the process with the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Auditors.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through limiting non-audit services to tax and audit-related work 
that fall within defined categories. Non-audit work is approved by the Audit Committee if it concludes that it is in the 
interests of the Group to purchase non-audit work from the external Auditors (rather than another supplier).
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Group's risk management and internal control systems and believes that the 
controls are satisfactory, given the size and nature of the Group.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises David Thomas and Giles Elliott, and chaired by Giles Elliott.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration. This 
includes making recommendations to the Board on the Group's policy on executive remuneration, determining the 
individual remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and recommending and monitoring the 
remuneration of senior management below Board level.
The remuneration of the executive directors and senior management is determined with reference to their expertise and 
experience in the industry, the performance and profitability of the Group as well as remuneration benchmarks from 
other local and international companies and prevailing market conditions.
The remuneration and terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board with due regard 
to the interests of the Shareholders and the performance of the Group. 24
Naibu Global International Company plc Annual Report 2013
Corporate Governance Report (Continued)
AIM COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
The Company has established an AIM Compliance Committee which comprises Stephen Cheung and David Thomas, 
both of whom are non-executive directors of the Company. The AIM Compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring 
the Company's compliance with the AIM Rules. It is chaired by David Thomas.
SHARE DEALING
The Group has adopted a share dealing code for Directors' dealings. The Directors will comply with Rule 21 of the AIM 
Rules for Companies relating to Directors' dealings and will take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the 
Group's applicable employees as well.
INVESTOR RELATIONS AND SHAREHOLDERS RIGHT
The Group actively promotes investor relations and communication with the investment community when the interim and 
year-end financial results are announced and during the course of the year. Through its Chairman, non-executive deputy 
Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, the Group responds to requests for information and queries from the investment 
community including institutional shareholders, analysts and the media through regular briefing meetings, conference 
calls and presentations. The other Directors, including Non-executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views 
of the major shareholders about the Company by periodic meetings on the subject with the Chairman and the Chief 
Financial Officer.
The Board is committed to providing clear and full information on the Group to shareholders through the publication of 
notices, announcements, interim and annual reports. An updated version of the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Company is published on the Company's website. Moreover, additional information on the Group is 
also available to shareholders through the Investor Relations page on the Company's website.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend all general meetings of the Company, such as the annual general meeting for 
which at least 21 working days notice is given and at which the Chairman and Directors are available to answer 
questions on the Groups businesses. All shareholders have statutory rights to call for extraordinary general meetings and 
put forward agenda items for consideration by shareholders by sending to the Company Secretary a written request for 
such general meetings together with the proposed agenda items. Regularly updated financial, business and other 
information on the Group is made available on the Company's website for shareholders.
The Group values feedback from shareholders on its efforts to promote transparency and foster investor relationships. 
Comments and suggestions to the Board or the Company are welcome and can be addressed to the Company by e-mail.