 Business review
Risk and risk management
The Group has a well established governance structure  
with internal control and risk management systems.  
The risk management process
 provides a framework to identify, assess and manage 
risks, both positive and negative, to the Group's  
overall strategy and the contribution of its individual 
component divisions.
 gives business unit management formal tools to identify 
and manage risks in their day-to-day operations.
 allows Group Executive management to identify and 
manage the risks that are likely to have a more significant 
impact on the financial results and strategy and share 
common issues and solutions across the Group.
 allows the Board to fulfil its governance responsibilities  
by making a balanced and understandable assessment  
of the operation of the risk management process  
and its outputs.
Responsibilities and actions
The Board:
 has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
 maintains full control and direction over appropriate 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
 has put in place an organisational structure with formally 
defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities  
and clear operating processes.
The Audit Committee: 
 has specific responsibility for reviewing the  
effectiveness of the Group's internal control  
and risk management systems.
 is responsible for the identification, assessment  
and management of risk, including actions taken  
and processes adopted to do so.
 reviews and approves all financial information published  
by the Group.
 reviews the internal audit programme, considers major 
findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews 
management's financial reporting and risk management.
Risk review process
Each division, plus the Group function, is required to make  
a formal review of risks to their business objectives, assess 
the impact and likelihood of the risk occurring and put  
in place mitigating actions, processes and systems to 
manage the risk.
Risks
Identify risks to business objectives on a bottom up basis: 
risks are described and categorised into Operational, 
Strategic and Financial risks in order to help define their 
precise nature and potential impact on the business.
Assessment 
Assess and quantify the potential impact on business 
objectives and determine the likelihood of the risk occurring. 
This is done on a  before' and  after' basis, where the impact 
of management controls is assessed in relation to the 
probability and severity of a risk.
Management
Take mitigating actions and implement systems to manage 
the likelihood and impact of the risk. Identify an individual 
with responsibility for each risk.
Monitoring and control
Risks are considered on a monthly basis at divisional 
level and formally updated twice a year. Management is 
encouraged to review the risk registers from other divisions 
to identify common issues and potential solutions.
Each divisional register, including the Group function register, 
is consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The Group Executive Committee reviews the Group 
Risk Register twice a year, followed by the Group Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee reports in turn to  
the main Board. 
The internal audit function has responsibility for the 
monitoring of the risk management and internal control 
systems. Internal Audit reports to management and the 
Audit Committee on the extent to which internal controls  
are adequately designed and implemented.
Risk assessment and review
3. Mitigating action
ML M MH H 
ML M MH H
IMPACT
PROBABILITY
Contractual
Economic
conditions
    and austerity
Currency
Insurance
and claims
Credit
risk
Fuel
costs
Mergers and 
acquisitions
Political and 
regulatory
1. Identify 2. Assess
Overview 
43 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Financial statements Business review Delivering on our strategy Governance  Business review
Principal risks of 2012 
Risks
Principal risks and uncertainties
Outlined below are risks that have the potential to affect the Group's performance in a material way, which are monitored through the risk  
management processes.
Risks Assessment Management
Potential 
impact
During 2012, the Group focused on the following key areas of risk:
Economic conditions and austerity
Difficult economic conditions currently 
exist in Europe and North America. Whilst 
some of the Group's businesses have 
naturally defensive characteristics, some 
of the more discretionary parts of the 
business may be adversely affected  
by reduced economic activity.
Revenues in the Bus, Coach and Rail 
businesses in the UK and Spain may be 
affected by lower passenger demand; 
there is also some positive risk that the 
Group would benefit from the prospect of 
modal shift towards its forms of transport. 
In North America for example, school 
boards may reduce their transportation 
budgets, or look to shift provision to 
contractors like National Express.  
In Spain, the division may be affected by 
lower disposable income, sustained high 
unemployment, lower council budgets 
and low GDP growth. However, they  
too may benefit from the outsourcing  
of further urban bus operations.
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks 
through proactive cost control, revenue 
management systems, the careful 
economic modelling of new and existing 
contracts, including sensitivities around 
expected growth rates, and through 
sharing risk with contracting parties.
High
Political and regulatory
The Group's businesses are subject to 
numerous laws in the jurisdictions in which 
they operate, regulating the operation 
of concessions, safety procedures, 
equipment specifications, employment 
requirements, environmental procedures 
and other operating issues.
Changes in political and regulatory 
environments can have a significant 
impact on regulated public transport 
operators, from adding significant cost  
to changing the fundamental nature  
of a market. For example:
Changes in UK Government policy have 
resulted in material decreases in subsidies 
paid in 2012 for senior citizen discounts 
and fuel rebates.
The UK Department for Transport has 
suspended the rail franchising process.
The Spanish Government is considering 
the imposition of a fee on new concessions 
and other regulatory changes.
The risk is reduced by maintaining close 
relationships with key stakeholders and 
ensuring that the economic advantages  
of our business models are fully 
understood and considered.
In the longer term, the Group can mitigate 
risk by diversifying its operations into  
other geographies.
High
The following risks are key ongoing risks within the business:
Fuel cost
All of the Group's businesses are exposed 
to fuel costs - primarily Ultra Low Sulphur 
Diesel for buses and coaches. Fuel  
prices are subject to significant  
volatility due to economic, political  
and climate circumstances.
Fuel costs constitute approximately 9%  
of the Group's costs and, consequently,  
to the extent that price increases cannot 
be passed on to customers, increases  
in fuel costs will affect profitability.
The Group seeks to mitigate risks of 
increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel 
swaps and forward purchase contracts 
in line with the Group's hedging strategy 
discussed on page 23.
Medium
Insurance and claims
The Group's policy is to self-insure  
a number of potential claims within  
its business.
There is a risk that a successful claim or 
series of successful claims may result in 
substantial higher charges to profit and 
cash outflow than expected.
Throughout the business, a strong 
safety culture prevails, led by the Board 
Safety and Environmental Committee. 
Where claims arise, they are managed 
by experienced claims handlers and 
professional advice is obtained in order to 
evaluate and minimise costs to the Group. 
It has also reduced self-insurance values 
and increased external market coverage.
Medium
44 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012  Risks Assessment Management
Potential 
impact
Credit risk
As contractual operations, the North 
American and Spanish businesses are 
exposed to the risk that customers are 
either late or unable to pay sums owed  
to the Group.
Payment terms and cash collections in 
North America are extremely good. 
In Spain, during 201 1 receivables balance 
increased as a result of issues related 
to local and federal elections, as well as 
financial constraints. In June 2012 all long 
term outstanding amounts were settled 
through a federal Government credit 
facility and the level of outstanding debt is 
back to normal levels and continues to fall.
Receivables in each business are closely 
monitored, based on robust and thorough 
documentation; provisions are then made 
where appropriate on a prudent basis for 
a certain level of non-collection. Additional 
contractual terms for interest accrual  
and repayment of outstanding balances 
have been agreed with major debtors 
where necessary. 
Medium
Currency
The Group's exposure to overseas 
earnings through its Spanish and North 
American operations creates a risk 
that movement in exchange rates may 
adversely impact translation of profit and 
cash flows together with Group gearing. 
Foreign currency movements impact the 
profit, balance sheet and cash flows of the 
Group. During 2012 the Euro depreciated 
against Sterling, although the US dollar 
remained relatively stable. The Group 
swapped some of its debt during the  
year to access Euro-denominated debt,  
as well as maintaining Sterling bonds  
and US dollar finance leases. 
The Group uses its overseas currency 
debt and currency swaps to reduce the 
impact and mitigate the risk. In addition, 
management has flexibility to adjust  
its Group capital allocation decisions  
to focus on its highly cash generative  
UK businesses. 
The Board has stress tested for the 
impact of a break-up of the Eurozone  
or sovereign debt default on the  
Group's ability to fund and operate,  
and has identified appropriate plans  
for such scenarios.
Low
Acquisitions
Risk of failing to execute and then  
realise the expected returns from the 
Petermann acquisition.
The Group acquired Petermann for $200 
million in May. Its return on that investment 
is dependent on properly integrating 
the operations, retaining customers and 
employees and realising planned cost 
savings and synergies.
Thorough due diligence was carried out, 
as well as dedicating resource for the 
transition and integration of Petermann 
operations and customers. Operational 
and financial metrics show the acquisition 
is on track to meet expected returns. 
Low
Contractual
Much of the Group's business is 
secured through winning contracts 
and concessions, particularly in its 
North American school bus and Transit 
business, in Spain and in UK Rail.
An inherent risk in contract bidding is 
that bid assumptions might prove to be 
incorrect. If the Group's significant bid 
assumptions prove to be incorrect, this 
could have an adverse effect on results  
of the operations and the Group's  
financial condition.
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk 
through careful economic modelling of 
new contracts, and by sharing revenue 
risk with the awarding body; for example 
with the DfT in UK Rail.
High
Overview 
45 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Financial statements Business review Delivering on our strategy Governance 