  National Grid Gas plc  DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010/11  27 
  
Corporate governance statement 
 
The Company is required to include within its regulatory 
accounting statements a corporate governance statement 
which describes how the principles of good corporate 
governance have been applied and which has the same content 
as the statement a quoted company is required to prepare.   
As a wholly owned subsidiary of National Grid plc, the company 
is not subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, 
but operates within National Grid's corporate governance 
framework. The following statement sets out how this 
governance framework has been applied to our regulatory DN 
business.  
National Grid s corporate governance policies are described in 
its annual report and accounts. Its Board considers that it 
complied in full with the Combined Code during 2010/11. 
Governance framework 
The Board of the Company is responsible for its overall 
management and governance, and for ensuring that it complies 
with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with 
its Gas Transporter Licence. The operational and financial 
management of the Company's businesses is undertaken by 
committees, in compliance with business separation 
obligations. 
The Board meets at least 6 times a year on a bi-monthly basis. 
There are no non-executive or independent directors. The 
Board does not have an independent Chairman and durng the 
year meetings were normally chaired by Mark Fairbairn.  
Attendance 
Attendance at Board meetings during 2010/11, expressed as 
number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, is 
set out below. 
  Attendance*
Mark Fairbairn (resigned March 2011) 7 of 8
Malcolm Cooper  6 of 8
Stuart Humphreys  7 of 8
Paul Whittaker  6 of 8
Adam Wiltshire   7 of 8
Nick Winser  5 of 8
 
Board members are required to attend meetings regularly in 
order to ensure they are kept up to date with the business and 
accordingly can contribute to meetings. Directors are informed 
of proposed meeting dates well in advance. Directors are sent 
papers for meetings of the Board and for those committees of 
which they are a member. Guidelines are in place concerning 
the content, timeliness and preferred presentation of papers to 
ensure Directors are briefed appropriately. 
Board performance evaluation 
The Board of the Company instigated a review of its 
performance over the year to 31 December 2010.
 
The 2010 process, led by Mark Fairbairn was a formal and 
rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board and the 
Directors.  
A positive set of results was recorded across the survey 
indicating the Board is working effectively.  
The Directors agreed that Mark Fairbairn demonstrated 
effective leadership and performed his responsibilities well, that 
the Board composition is appropriate and that the operation of 
the Board, in terms of length and frequency of board meetings 
and the information provided is appropriate.  
Committees 
The Board has established a number of committees and sub-
committees which assist it in its activities. These include the 
Distribution Executive Committee and the Finance Committee. 
It does not have Nomination, Remuneration or Audit 
Committees. These functions are provided by National Grid and 
their roles relevant to the Company are explained below. See 
the annual report and accounts of National Grid plc for further 
information about these committees. 
Board composition and continuity 
The Board of the Company will make further appointments in 
consultation with its Shareholders as appropriate. 
Board Remuneration  
The Directors of the Company are not separately remunerated 
in that capacity. The remuneration of any Director, who is also a 
member of the Board of National Grid plc, is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee of the Board of National Grid plc, as 
set out in its annual report and accounts. The remuneration of 
other Directors is determined in accordance with National Grid's 
remuneration policies for employees. 
Audit Committee of National Grid plc 
The Audit Committee of the Board of National Grid plc is 
responsible for reviewing: the Company's financial reporting 
and internal controls and their effectiveness; the procedures for 
the identification, assessment and reporting of risks; the 
appropriateness of auditors in carrying out certain non-audit 
work; and the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors.   
The Audit Committee is comprised of independent Non-
executive Directors of National Grid plc, meets at least 4 times 
annually and considers that both management of National Grid 
plc and external auditors should attend meetings where 
possible.  28  National Grid Gas plc  DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010/11  
Distribution Executive Committee 
The Distribution Executive Committee acts within National 
Grid's overall corporate governance framework and delegated 
authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial 
management of the Distribution business. Membership of this 
committee and attendance at meetings during 2010/11 is set 
out below. Attendance is expressed as number of meetings 
attended out of number eligible to attend, and includes 
attendance by a nominated deputy. 
  Attendance
Mark Fairbairn 
(Chair - resigned 
March 2011) 
Executive Director of National  
Grid 
3 of 3
John Pettigrew 
(Chair) 
Chief Operating Officer , Gas 
Distribution 
9 of 9
Adam Wiltshire Chief Finance Officer, Gas 
Distribution 
10 of 12
Jonathan Munsey 
(Karen Clayton 
until August 2010) 
Acting UK General Counsel & 
Company Secretary 
12 of 12
Denise Wilson Director of Distribution Customer 
Support 
5 of 7
Jeremy Bending Director, Network Strategy 11 of 12
Jon Butterworth Director, Operations 9 of 12
Chris Bennett Commercial Manager 5 of 5
David Salisbury Operate & Maintain Process 
Manager 
4 of 5
Hilary Buxton Replace & Extend Process 
Manager 
5 of 5
Daniel Davies Emergency Response & Repair 
Manager 
4 of 5
Johnny Johnston Customer Operations Manager 5 of 5
Michael Dyke Director of UK Construction 4 of 6
Andrew McKelvey Head of Gas Distribution Alliances 5 of 6
Pete Massey Director of Transformation 8 of 12
 
The Distribution Executive Committee has a number of sub-
committees dealing with matters such as investment 
governance and coordination of operations. 
Finance committee 
The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting 
policy and grants authority for financing decisions, bank 
accounts, credit exposure, control mechanisms for hedging and 
foreign exchange transactions, guarantees and indemnities and 
approves, or if appropriate, recommends to the Board other 
treasury, tax, pensions and insurance strategies. 
Group holding company 
During the year, two of the Directors, Nick Winser, and Mark 
Fairbairn, until his resignation in March 2011, were also 
Executive Directors of National Grid plc. Through participation 
of these Directors at the Board of both companies, the Board of 
National Grid Gas is well placed to identify and facilitate 
understanding of the views of its shareholder. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for 
internal control throughout its group operations and in particular 
in monitoring its effectiveness within its subsidiary companies.  
The system of internal control, and in particular our risk 
management policies, has been designed to manage rather 
than eliminate risks to the achievement of our strategic and 
business objectives. 
During the year, the Board of National Grid plc has undertaken 
a review of the internal control processes, including those of the 
Company, and their effectiveness. 
Risk management 
The Company has embedded risk management into its 
business decision making process.  This risk management 
process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down 
assessments of operational, including safety, financial and 
other business or project risks. From the bottom-up, business 
units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture their key 
risks and the actions being taken to manage them. These risk 
registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the executive 
committees for those business units.  Directors and other senior 
management are involved at critical stages in the review 
process. Their review and debate of the outputs of the bottom-
up assessment against their top-down views produce an overall 
evaluation of the risks that are faced by the Company. In 
addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit 
Committees of National Grid plc review National Grid's overall 
risk profile and any changes. The Audit Committee also reviews 
the overall risk management process. 
Compliance management 
Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid 
wide basis. This process provides assurance to Directors and 
senior management on the effectiveness of control frameworks 
to manage key internal and external obligations and also 
highlights instances of significant non-compliance with these 
obligations. External obligations are driven primarily by key 
legal and regulatory requirements whereas internal obligations 
focus more on compliance with National Grid's own corporate 
policies and procedures, which included regulatory compliance 
policies. The compliance management process is consistent 
with and complimentary to the risk management process. 
Internal audit 
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function.  
This function is provided by National Grid's corporate audit 
function. 
Business separation 
Special Condition C20 of our NTS gas transporter licence 
requires that the Company maintains managerial and 
operational systems such that: 
 the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial 
advantage by reason of the way the Company conducts its 
NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition 
A6; and    National Grid Gas plc  DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010/11  29 
  
 cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN 
businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special 
Condition A35. 
Our policy on business separation is set out in the Company's 
Compliance Statement. 
We have taken the following specific actions to comply with the 
requirements of Special Condition C20: 
 established separate management for the gas 
transmission and gas distribution businesses, as 
described above; 
 appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of 
the gas transmission business and the gas distribution 
business. Each Compliance Committee reports directly to 
the Board of National Grid Gas and also to the Audit 
Committee of National Grid; and 
 appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who 
reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to 
the Audit Committee of National Grid. 
 