 National Grid Gas plc  NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012/13  15 
  
 
Internal control and risk management 
Risks are managed within the National Grid internal 
control and risk management processes as a whole. 
National Grid Gas is part of this and participates in the 
processes which are described below, in addition to its 
own governance processes which are subject to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 
The Gas Transmission Executive Committee is 
responsible for day to day management of our Gas 
Transmission business. The Distribution Executive 
Committee is responsible for day to day management of 
our Gas Distribution business. The membership of these 
two committees comprises Directors and senior business 
managers. The Gas Transmission Executive Committee 
is chaired by John Pettigrew, who also sits on the 
Executive Committee of National Grid, and is the UK 
Chief Operating Officer. The Distribution Executive 
Committee is chaired by Jeremy Bending. 
The System Operator Executive Committee is 
responsible for the strategic direction of Great Britain SO 
activities (Gas and Electricity combined) and the RIIO 
incentive and output performance measures. The 
membership of this committee comprises Directors and 
senior business managers. The committee is chaired by 
Nick Winser, who also sits on the Executive Committee 
of National Grid, and is the National Grid UK Executive 
Director. 
Overall responsibility for management of risks lies with 
the Board of National Grid, which is committed to the 
protection of our reputation and assets, as well as 
safeguarding the interests of our shareholders. We 
achieve this through maintaining a sound system of 
internal control.  
Oversight by the National Grid Board and its 
committees 
National Grid's Board of Directors maintains overall 
responsibility for the Company's system of internal control and 
reviews the effectiveness of the framework annually. The 
National Grid Board establishes the control environment, sets 
risk appetite, approves policies and delegates responsibilities. 
Where appropriate it delegates authority to its committees. 
The National Grid Audit Committee receives reports from the 
specialist functions and reviews the effectiveness of internal 
controls over financial reporting and risk management 
procedures. Also reviews the adequacy of the external audit 
process, including the effectiveness, independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors. 
The National Grid Finance Committee sets policy, monitors 
compliance and grants authority for financing decisions, 
taxation, insurance, pensions and trading/hedging activities in 
line with the National Grid Board's risk appetite. 
The National Grid Safety, Environment and Health Committee 
(SEH) sets policies, implements initiatives and monitors 
compliance and reviews reports on key risks associated with 
progress towards our safety, environment and health 
objectives. 
The National Grid Executive Committee reviews regular reports 
from specialist functions to monitor the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the internal control framework and takes 
appropriate action to safeguard the interests of National Grid 
and to further our strategy and business objectives. 
Supported by dedicated, specialist teams 
Process owners carry out detailed assessments and response 
plans are developed and monitored regularly. The National Grid 
Board and process owners are supported by dedicated 
specialist teams. Those specialist teams being: 
National Grid's Risk management team: 
  works with the National Grid Board to determine risk 
appetite and establish and implement risk management 
policies; 
  is responsible for the independent review and challenge of 
risk information throughout the business, compilation and 
analysis of risk profiles and monitoring risk management 
processes with the National Grid Group; and 
  regularly reports on risks to the oversight bodies. 
National Grid's Ethics and compliance management team: 
  maintains our standards of ethical business conduct; 
  promotes ethical behaviour and monitors compliance with 
external legal and regulatory requirements; and 
  operates our whistleblower helplines and supports activities 
to prevent and detect bribery. 
National Grid's Corporate audit team: 
  develops and executes a risk-based audit plan; and 
  provides independent, objective assurance to the National 
Grid Audit Committee, Safety, Environment and Health 
Committee,  the National Grid Executive Committee, the 
Gas Transmission Executive Committee, the Distribution 
Executive Committee and the System Operator Executive 
Committee on the extent to which control and governance 
frameworks are operating effectively. 
National Grid's Safety, environment and health team: 
  develops policy recommendations for the National Grid 
Board; 
  monitors safety, environment and health performance; and 
  works with process owners to deliver our safety, 
environment and health objectives. 
National Grid's Internal controls team:  16  National Grid Gas plc  NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012/13  
  works with process owners to identify, document and test 
the design and operation of internal control over financial 
reporting; and  
  helps refine and improve controls where required. 
National Grid's system of internal control and, in particular, its 
risk management process, has been designed to support  its 
strategic and business objectives as well as internal control 
over financial reporting. We aim to do this through:  
 mitigating risk; 
 making sure our information, including financial reporting, 
is accurate and reliable; 
 complying with our obligations - both internal and 
external; 
 applying sound governance practices; and 
 making informed and timely decisions to further our 
objectives. 
National Grid's internal controls are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate material risks. We balance the costs of internal 
controls with the magnitude and likelihood of the risks being 
managed in light of our risk appetite. 
National Grid's internal control process  
National Grid's internal control process is based on thorough 
and systematic processes that identify, assess and monitor 
business critical risks. 
Accurate and reliable information plays a vital role in our 
decision making, while education, training and awareness are 
all important elements that help us maintain effective internal 
controls. 
National Grid's internal control process starts with identifying 
risks, compliance matters and other issues. We do this through 
routine reviews carried out by process owners and facilitated by 
relevant dedicated, specialist teams. National Grid Gas record 
risks in our risk register, assesses the implications and 
consequences for National Grid and determine the likelihood of 
occurrence. 
We put in place action plans, controls and other process 
improvements designed to address the risks and issues 
identified. National Grid assesses the effectiveness of the 
controls regularly and seeks independent assurance where it is 
appropriate to do so.  
National Grid formally report the outcomes of its risk 
identification and control assessments to senior management 
and the relevant oversight bodies. This informs its decision-
making and provides assurances about its internal controls to 
management and the Board of National Grid.  
National Grid regularly monitor its action plans, other process 
improvements and the status of risks. The results of its review 
help update the process as the cycle continues. 
Internal control over financial reporting 
National Grid has specific internal mechanisms to govern the 
financial reporting process and the preparation of the Annual 
Report and Accounts. Its financial controls guidance sets out 
the fundamentals of internal control over financial reporting 
which are applied across the National Grid Group and its 
accounting guides provide guidance on its accounting policies.  
Within National Grid processes we have system, transaction 
and oversight controls. In addition, businesses prepare detailed 
monthly management reports which include analysis of their 
results along with comparisons to relevant budgets, forecasts 
and prior year results. These are presented to and challenged 
by National Grid senior management within Finance. The 
National Grid Finance Director, in turn, presents a consolidated 
management report to the Board of National Grid.  
These reviews are supplemented by quarterly performance 
reviews, attended by National Grid's Chief Executive and 
Finance Director. They discuss historical results and expected 
future performance and involve senior management from both 
operational and financial areas of the business.  
In addition to its own governance processes, National Grid Gas 
participates in the governance process of National Grid, which 
is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The internal control processes comply with the Turnbull 
guidance on internal control and the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.  
Reviewing the effectiveness of National Grid internal 
control 
Each year the Board of National Grid reviews the effectiveness 
of its internal control process, including financial reporting, to 
make sure it remains robust. The latest review covered the 
financial year to 31 March 2013. 