 13
Stock code: NET
www.netcall.com
22003-04 15/10/2012 Proof 6
Corporate Governance Statement
Introduction
The Board recognises the principles of good corporate 
governance set out in the Corporate Governance Code 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 
( the Code') and although, as the Company is quoted on AIM, 
it is not required to comply with the Code, it does so as far as 
it feels is practical and appropriate for a company of its size.
This statement, together with the statement of Directors' 
Responsibilities, Chairman's and Chief Executive's Review and 
the Directors' Report, indicates how the Company has applied 
the principles of the Code.
Board responsibilities
The Board's principal responsibilities are to deliver shareholder 
value, maintain reliable systems of control and provide 
the overall vision and leadership for the Company and the 
Group. It determines corporate strategy, reviews the Group's 
operating and financial performance to ensure it is effectively 
controlled, and is the primary decision-maker for all matters 
considered to be significant to the Group as a whole.
There is an agreed formal schedule of matters reserved for 
approval by the Board including the approval of acquisitions, 
budgets, commercial strategy, major capital expenditure, 
treasury policy, corporate governance, risk control and the 
appointment of new directors.
Board composition and balance
The Board, chaired by Michael Jackson, comprises two 
Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. 
Collectively, the Directors have a wide range of relevant 
business and financial experience and knowledge which is 
vital to the success of the Group. Biographical details of the 
Directors are on page 6.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined and 
distinct roles. The Chairman is responsible for corporate 
governance, shareholder communication and the efficient 
operation of the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for the 
day-to-day operation of the Group and leads the communication 
programme with analysts and potential investors. 
The Directors forming the Remuneration and Audit 
Committees are not independent, as defined by the Code, 
because Michael Neville became a Director of the Company 
following the acquisition of Telephonetics plc, of which 
company he was a Director, and Michael Jackson was 
appointed as Director and Chairman without the intervention 
of a Nomination Committee. Each of these Directors holds 
shares in the Company and Michael Neville is a director of 
other companies in the Group.
Board process
The Board carries out its duties with the assistance of the 
Board committees. The Board meets regularly during the 
year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary for 
specific purposes. Full and timely information is provided 
to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow 
Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who ensures that the Board meets 
formally at least 11 times per year, receives appropriate and 
timely information for decision making, that Board procedures 
are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements 
are met. Any Director, in order to fulfil his duties, may take 
independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
The table below shows the number of monthly meetings 
individual Directors could have attended during the year 
(taking account of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates) 
and their actual attendance.
Number of
meetings
Number of
meetings
attended
Roger Allsop (resigned on  
28 October 2011) 3 3
Henrik Bang 11 11
Mark Brooks 11 6
Michael Jackson 11 11
Michael Neville 11 11
James Ormondroyd 11 11
The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential 
conflicts of interest and confirms that the procedures have 
operated effectively during the year under review.
The Board does not formally evaluate the performance of 
the Board, its committees and its individual Directors but 
evaluates the effectiveness of the Board as a whole by a 
policy of managing the achievement of business objectives, 
and monitors the effectiveness thereof principally by the 
regular review of financial information and the work of the 
Audit Committee.
Internal control and risk management
The Directors are responsible for risk assessment and the 
systems of internal control. Although no system of internal 
control can provide absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss, the Group's systems are designed to 
provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems 
are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately. 
Company management: The Board has put in place a system 
of internal controls, set within a clearly defined organisational 
structure with well understood lines of responsibility, delegation 
of authority, accountability, policies and procedures. Managers 
assume responsibility for running day-to-day operational 
activities with performance regularly reviewed, and employees 
are required to follow procedures and policies appropriate to 
their position within the business.  14
22003-04 15/10/2012 Proof 6
Stock code: NET
Netcall plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012
Business risks: The Board is responsible for identifying, 
evaluating and managing all major business risks facing the 
Group. To facilitate the assessment of risks, monthly reports 
on non-financial matters are received by the Board, covering 
such matters as sales performance, project progress and 
human resource issues.
Financial management: A business plan and an annual 
operating budget are prepared by management and are 
reviewed and approved by the Board prior to commencement 
of each financial year. Monthly accounts comparing current 
year performance with budget, together with key performance 
metrics, are received and discussed by the Board. The 
Group has in place documented authority levels for approving 
purchase orders, invoices and all bank transactions. 
Quality management: The Group is focused on meeting the 
highest levels of customer satisfaction. Quality procedures 
for the development of products, services and maintenance 
support are documented and reviewed frequently. 
Internal audit: The Directors do not currently believe that 
an additional separate internal audit function is appropriate 
for the size and complexity of the Group, but will continue 
to periodically review the position. The Group is ISO9001 
accredited which has been independently audited. 
Election and re-election of Directors
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual 
General Meeting when, under the Company's Articles 
of Association, it is required that they be elected by 
shareholders. The Company's Articles of Association require 
that Directors retire and stand for re-election at least once 
every three years.
Directors' indemnity and insurance
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company 
has provided indemnities to the Directors (to the extent 
permitted by the Companies Act 2006) in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their office. The Company has taken 
out an insurance policy in respect of those liabilities for which 
Directors may not be indemnified. Neither the indemnity nor 
insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proved 
to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board to discharge its 
responsibilities for ensuring the integrity of the financial 
information reported to shareholders, meeting with and 
recommending the appointment and resignation of the 
Company's auditor and ensuring that non-audit services 
do not impact on the objectivity and independence of the 
Company's auditor. The members of the Audit Committee 
consider that they have the requisite skills and experience 
to fulfil the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The 
Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Neville and meets 
on at least two occasions each year. The Group's auditor 
has direct access to the Audit Committee at any time to 
raise any matters of concern or for discussion. The table 
below shows the number of meetings individual Directors 
could have attended during the year (taking account of 
eligibility, appointment and retirement dates) and their actual 
attendance.
Number of
meetings
Number of
meetings
attended
Roger Allsop (resigned on  
28 October 2011) 2 1
Michael Jackson 4 4
Michael Neville 4 4
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee' s principal function is to review the 
performance of the Executive Directors, recommend the setting 
of their remuneration and for considering the grant of share 
options to Directors and employees. The Committee is chaired 
by Michael Neville. Details of the Directors' remuneration can be 
found on page 8. The table below shows the number of meetings 
individual Directors could have attended during the year (taking 
account of eligibility, appointment and retirement) and their actual 
attendance.
Number of
meetings
Number of
meetings
attended
Roger Allsop (resigned on  
28 October 2011) 1 1 
Michael Jackson 3 3
Michael Neville 3 3
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and 
a Non-Executive Director. It is chaired by Michael Jackson. 
The principal functions are to review the structure, size and 
composition of the Board, consider succession and identify 
and nominate Board candidates. The Nomination Committee 
did not meet during the year.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good 
relationships with its institutional shareholders. Following the 
announcement of the half-year and year-end results, a series 
of formal meetings with institutional shareholders is undertaken 
which allows the Executive Directors to form relationships with 
the investors and for the shareholders to raise any concerns.
The Company's brokers and financial PR advisers provide 
feedback from investor and analyst meetings which are 
presented to the Board. The Annual General Meeting also 
provides an opportunity for the Board to communicate directly 
with shareholders. The Company maintains a website which 
contains information on the Group, regulatory announcements 
and financial statements: www.netcall.com. 
Corporate Governance Statement continued