 22852.04     14 October 2013 3:36 PM     Proof 5
Introduction
The Board recognises the principles of good 
corporate governance set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code ( the Code') 
and although, as the Company is quoted 
on AIM, it is not required to comply with the 
Code, it does so as far as it feels is practical 
and appropriate for a company of its size and 
complexity. The main exceptions are that:
 	 the Directors forming the Remuneration 
and Audit Committees are not 
independent, as defined by the Code, 
because Michael Neville became a Director 
of the Company following the acquisition 
of Telephonetics Plc, of which company 
he was a director, and Michael Jackson 
was appointed a Director and Chairman 
without the intervention of a Nomination 
Committee. Each of these Directors holds 
shares in the Company and Michael Neville 
is a director of other companies in the 
Group.
 	 the Board does not undertake a formal 
evaluation of its performance, as this is 
constantly under review given its size. 
This statement, together with the statement 
of Directors' responsibilities, Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's review and the Directors' 
report, explains the Company's corporate 
governance.
Board responsibilities
The Board's principal responsibilities are to 
deliver shareholder value, maintain reliable 
systems of control and provide the overall 
vision and leadership for the Company. It 
determines corporate strategy, reviews the 
Group's operating and financial performance 
to ensure it is effectively controlled, and is 
the primary decision-maker for all matters 
considered to be significant to the Group as 
a whole.
There is an agreed formal schedule of 
matters reserved for approval by the Board 
including the approval of acquisitions, 
budgets, commercial strategy, major capital 
expenditure, treasury policy, corporate 
governance, risk control and the appointment 
of new Directors.
Board composition and 
balance
The Board, chaired by Michael Jackson, 
comprises two Executive Directors and 
two Non-Executive Directors. Collectively, 
the Directors have a wide range of relevant 
business and financial experience and 
knowledge which is vital to the success of the 
Group. Biographical details of the Directors are 
on page 6.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly 
defined and distinct roles. The Chairman 
is responsible for corporate governance, 
shareholder communication and the efficient 
operation of the Board. The Chief Executive 
is responsible for the day-to-day operation 
of the Group and leads the communication 
programme with analysts and potential 
investors. 
Board process
The Board carries out its duties with the 
assistance of the Board committees. The 
Board meets regularly during the year and 
additional meetings are arranged as necessary 
for specific purposes. Full and timely 
information is provided to the Board to enable 
it to function effectively and to allow Directors 
to discharge their responsibilities.
All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary, who 
ensures that the Board meets formally at 
least 11 times per year, receives appropriate 
and timely information for decision making, 
that Board procedures are followed and that 
statutory and regulatory requirements are met. 
Any Director, in order to fulfil his duties, may 
take independent professional advice at the 
Company's expense.
The following table shows the number of 
monthly meetings individual Directors could 
have attended during the year (taking account 
of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates) 
and their actual attendance.
Number 
of 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Henrik Bang 11 11
James Ormondroyd 11 11
Mark Brooks 4 1
(resigned 19 November 2012)
Michael Jackson 11 11
Michael Neville 11 11
The Board has procedures in place to deal 
with potential conflicts of interest and confirms 
that the procedures have operated effectively 
during the year under review.
Internal control and risk 
management
The Directors are responsible for risk 
assessment and the systems of internal 
control. Although no system of internal control 
can provide absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss, the Group's 
systems are designed to provide the Directors 
with reasonable assurance that problems 
are identified on a timely basis and dealt with 
appropriately. 
Company management: The Board has put 
in place a system of internal controls, set 
within a clearly defined organisational structure 
with well understood lines of responsibility, 
delegation of authority, accountability, 
policies and procedures. Managers 
assume responsibility for running day-to-
day operational activities with performance 
regularly reviewed and employees are required 
to follow procedures and policies appropriate 
to their position within the business. 
Business risks: The Board is responsible for 
identifying, evaluating and managing all major 
business risks facing the Group. To facilitate 
the assessment of risks, monthly reports on 
non-financial matters are received by the 
Board covering such matters as sales and 
operations performance and research and 
development progress.
Corporate Governance Statement
www.netcall.com
SUPPORTING ORGANISATIONS TO DELIVER  
OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE
13
Netcall AR2013 - PROOF 5.indd   13 14/10/2013   16:57:37 22852.04     14 October 2013 3:36 PM     Proof 5
Financial management: An annual operating 
budget is prepared by management and 
are reviewed and approved by the Board 
prior to commencement of each financial 
year. Monthly accounts comparing current 
year performance with budget together with 
key performance metrics are received and 
discussed by the Board. The Group has 
in place documented authority levels for 
approving purchase orders, invoices and all 
bank transactions. 
Quality management: The Group is focused 
on meeting the highest levels of customer 
satisfaction. Quality procedures for the 
development of products, services and 
maintenance support are documented and 
reviewed frequently. 
Internal audit: The Directors do not currently 
believe that an additional separate internal 
audit function is appropriate for the size and 
complexity of the Group but will continue to 
periodically review the position. The Group 
is ISO9001 accredited which has been 
independently audited. 
Election and re-election  
of Directors
Directors are initially appointed until the 
following Annual General Meeting when, under 
the Company's Articles of Association, it is 
required that they be elected by shareholders. 
The Company's Articles require that one third 
of the current Directors must retire as Directors 
by rotation.
Directors' indemnity and 
insurance
In accordance with the Articles of Association, 
the Company has provided indemnities to 
the Directors (to the extent permitted by the 
Companies Act 2006) in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their office. The 
Company has taken out an insurance policy in 
respect of those liabilities for which Directors 
may not be indemnified. Neither the indemnity 
nor insurance provides cover in the event that 
a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly 
or fraudulently.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board to 
discharge its responsibilities for ensuring 
the integrity of the financial information 
reported to shareholders, meeting with 
and recommending the appointment and 
resignation of the Company's auditor and 
ensuring that non-audit services do not 
impact on the objectivity and independence 
of the Company's auditor. The members of 
the Audit Committee consider that they have 
the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The 
Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Neville 
and meets on at least two occasions each 
year. The Group's auditor has direct access 
to the Audit Committee at any time to raise 
any matters of concern or for discussion. The 
table below shows the number of meetings 
individual Directors could have attended 
during the year (taking account of eligibility, 
appointment and retirement dates) and their 
actual attendance:
Number of 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Michael Jackson 2 2
Michael Neville 2 2
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee's principal 
functions are to review the performance of the 
Executive Directors, recommend the setting 
of their remuneration and bonus payments, 
and to consider the grant of share options 
to Directors and employees. The Committee 
is chaired by Michael Neville. Details of the 
Directors' remuneration can be found on 
page 8. The table below shows the number 
of meetings individual Directors could have 
attended during the year (taking account of 
eligibility, appointment and retirement) and 
their actual attendance:
Number of 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Michael Jackson 8 8
Michael Neville 8 8
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the 
Chairman and a Non-Executive Director. It 
is chaired by Michael Jackson. The principal 
functions are to review the structure, size 
and composition of the Board, consider 
succession, and identify and nominate Board 
candidates. The Nomination Committee did 
not meet during the year.
Relations with 
shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to 
maintaining good relationships with its 
shareholders.
Following the announcement of the half-year 
and year-end results, a series of formal meetings 
with institutional shareholders is undertaken 
which allows the Executive Directors to form 
relationships with the investors and for the 
shareholders to raise any concerns.
The Company's brokers and financial PR 
advisers provide feedback from investor 
and analyst meetings which are presented 
to the Board. The Annual General Meeting 
also provides an opportunity for the Board 
to communicate directly with shareholders. 
The Company maintains a website which 
contains information on the Group, regulatory 
announcements and financial statements: 
www.netcall.com.
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Stock code: NET
Netcall plc  
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013
14
Netcall AR2013 - PROOF 5.indd   14 14/10/2013   16:57:38