 22
Governance
NetPlayTV plc
Corporate 
governance
The following section sets out the key 
governance policies and practices adopted 
by the Group. In common with most other 
companies traded on AIM, NetPlayTV plc is 
not required to follow the guidelines set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code ) and does not claim to do so. The 
Directors have given consideration to the 
Code and have chosen to provide certain 
information on how the Group has adopted 
various principles of it.
Board
At the date of this report, the Group Board 
was made up of two Executive and four 
Non-Executive Directors. Under the 
Company's Articles of Association a Director 
shall retire from office at the first Annual 
General Meeting after his or her appointment 
and one-third, but not exceeding one-third, of 
the Directors are required to retire by rotation 
each year.
The Board meets regularly throughout the 
year and all Directors have full and timely 
access to the information necessary to 
enable them to discharge their duties. There 
is a scheduled Board meeting at least every 
month and additional Board meetings are 
held as required.
During the year, the Board met seven times 
and the following attendance occurred:
C Jones CBE 7
C A N Butler 7
G P Stevens 7
A C Lapping  7
T S Mickley 6
A Kumar* 7
* Of the seven meetings attended during 2013, six 
were attended in the role of Company Secretary 
and one as both Company Secretary and Finance 
Director.
The Board is assisted in the discharge of its 
duties by the following Board committees:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which comprises three 
Non-Executive Directors: G P Stevens who 
chairs the Audit Committee; C Jones; and A C 
Lapping. The Audit Committee is responsible 
for ensuring that the financial performance of 
the Group is properly reported on and 
monitored, and for overseeing the operation 
of internal financial controls appropriate to the 
size and operations of the Group. The Audit 
Committee meets twice a year to review the 
results, the findings of the auditors, the 
independence and objectivity of the auditors, 
and the internal controls. It also reviews the 
application and appropriateness of the 
Group's accounting policies, including any 
changes to financial reporting requirements 
brought about by both external and internal 
requirements and it gives consideration to all 
major financial announcements made by the 
Group including its interim and preliminary 
announcements and annual report and 
accounts.
The external auditors and other Executive 
Directors may be invited to attend the 
meetings.
During the year the Audit Committee met 
twice. G P Stevens and A C Lapping attended 
both meetings.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the 
Committee ), which comprises three 
Non-Executive Directors: G P Stevens who 
chairs the Committee; C Jones; and A C 
Lapping. The Committee has the principal 
function of agreeing with the Board the 
framework and policy for the remuneration of 
the Group's executive management and 
determining, on behalf of the Board, the 
remuneration packages of the Executive 
Directors. The Committee also determines 
the policy on executive appointments.
No member of the Committee has any 
personal financial interest (other than as a 
shareholder), conflict of interest arising from 
cross-directorships or day-to-day 
involvement in running the business. No 
Director plays a part in any discussion about 
his own remuneration.
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to 
attend certain discussions of the Committee.
During the year the Remuneration Committee 
met three times. G P Stevens and A C 
Lapping attended all meetings.
Remuneration policy and arrangements
The objective of the remuneration policy is to 
ensure that the Executive Directors and 
managers of the Group are provided with 
appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance and are, in a fair and 
reasonable manner, rewarded for their 
individual contributions to the success of the 
Group. Each Director is assessed individually 
so that their remuneration is directly related to 
their performance over time and so that a 
proportion of their remuneration is 
performance related.
There are five main elements of the 
remuneration package for Executive 
Directors:
(i) Basic salary:
An Executive Director's basic salary is 
determined by the Committee before the start 
of each year and when an individual changes 
position or responsibility. In deciding 
appropriate levels, the Committee seeks to be 
competitive, but fair, using information 
obtained from both internal and external 
sources.
(ii) Performance related bonus:
Performance related bonuses are designed to 
reward contribution and to encourage the 
achievement of targeted levels of 
performance over the short term. The 
maximum cash bonuses are set by the 
Committee and are subject to stretching 
targets linked to the Group's operating 
performance in the year.
(iii) Long-term incentive arrangements:
The Company's long-term incentive 
arrangements are intended to encourage 
Directors and other key employees to focus 
on long-term, strategic corporate objectives 
and to further align the interests of 
management and shareholders. These 
arrangements consist of an Enterprise 
Management Incentive Scheme (EMI ), an 
Inland Revenue approved share option 
scheme and an Inland Revenue unapproved 
share option scheme. Details of these 
schemes are outlined in notes 6 and 25 to the 
financial statements. 23
Governance
NetPlayTV plc
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
(iv) Pension arrangements:
The Group does not operate a pension 
scheme for employees; however it does make 
contributions to personal pension plans.
(v) Other benefits:
Other benefits for Executive Directors include 
a private health care scheme.
Service contracts
C A N Butler has a service agreement, dated 
29 January 2010, which is terminable on six 
months' notice by either party.
A Kumar has a service agreement, dated 
11 November 2013, which is terminable on 
six months' notice by either party.
In the event of early termination, the Directors' 
contracts provide for compensation up to a 
maximum of basic salary plus the fair value of 
benefits to which the Directors are 
contractually entitled for the unexpired 
portion of the notice period. The Company 
seeks to apply the principle of mitigation in 
the payment of compensation on the 
termination of the service contract of any 
Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have specific 
terms of engagement, the dates of which are 
set out below. There are no provisions for 
compensation payable in the event of early 
termination. The Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial period of one year, 
following which the notice period is three 
months.
Director Date of engagement letter
C Jones CBE 11 June 2009
G P Stevens 31 July 2003
A C Lapping 1 February 2007
T S Mickley 1 November 2010
The determination of the Non-Executive 
Directors' remuneration has been delegated 
by the Board to the Executive Directors, 
within the limits set by the Articles of 
Association. The fees paid to the Non-
Executive Directors in the year, shown in note 
6 to the financial statements, are inclusive of 
the additional work performed for the Group 
in respect of membership of the Board 
committees. At the 2004 Annual General 
Meeting, shareholder approval was granted to 
allow Non-Executive Directors to participate 
in the Group's unapproved share option 
scheme.
Relations with shareholders
The Group is committed to ongoing 
communication with its shareholders. At the 
Annual General Meeting, individual 
shareholders are afforded the opportunity to 
question the Board.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
system of internal control established by the 
Group and places considerable importance 
on maintaining a strong control environment. 
However, such a system is designed to 
identify, manage and mitigate rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
Key elements of the Group's system of 
internal control are as follows:
Financial management
Annual budgets are prepared for each 
business division and for the Group. These 
budgets are reviewed and agreed by the 
Board and actual performance is measured 
against these budgets on a regular basis. 
Monthly management accounts are prepared, 
reviewed, analysed and presented to the 
Board. The Group has in place documented 
authority levels for approving purchase 
orders, invoices and all bank transactions.
Company management
The Executive Directors meet regularly to 
monitor and evolve the Group's strategic 
direction, including product offerings and 
routes to market. In addition, the Chief 
Executive conducts regular management 
meetings to ensure that the strategy is 
cascaded throughout the Group's operations 
and is being acted upon accordingly.
Risk analysis
The Group maintains a comprehensive risk 
register. The Board approves annual updates 
and appropriate risk mitigating action plans.