 Newcastle United PLC Annual Report 2004 17
Statement of corporate governance
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice
The provisions of the revised Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, will be applicable to the Group
for the first time for the year ending 31 July 2005. The Company is currently reviewing procedures to ensure that it will comply, as far
as is possible and considered by the Board to be applicable for the size and structure of the Group, with these new provisions.
The Board of Newcastle United PLC is accountable to shareholders on matters of corporate governance and this statement sets out
how the relevant principles contained in the Combined Code are applied to the Group.
With the exception of the areas noted below the Group has complied throughout the year ended 31 July 2004 with the provisions
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The size and structure of the Board of Newcastle United PLC results in a number of areas of non-compliance with the Combined
Code, which are noted below. The Directors acknowledge that this may give rise to some shareholder concerns, but are confident
that the current Board of Directors, together with Senior Management of the Group, combine to provide an adequate and effective
system of leadership and control.
The Board has two formally constituted sub Committees, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee. The responsibilities
and composition of these Committees are set out below.
Directors
The Board currently comprises one Executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors. Brief biographical details of the Directors
are on page 10. Of the four Non-Executive Directors only one, T J Revill, is considered by the Board to be independent. 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, covering such areas as Group
strategy, investment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters. It reviews
the strategic direction of the individual trading divisions, their annual budgets and progress towards the achievement of these
budgets. In the day to day running of operations, the Board is supported by the Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Financial
Controller, who are both full-time Executive Directors of the Company's main operating subsidiary, Newcastle United Football Company
Limited. As members of the Group's Senior Management, they also attend Board meetings.
The Company has a procedure in place for Directors, if necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to obtain independent professional
advice at the Company's expense. In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and,
if appropriate, training will be made available to Directors.
All Directors are supplied in a timely manner with information sufficient to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of two years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms by mutual
agreement. All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Areas of non-compliance
W F Shepherd undertook the roles of Chairman and Executive Director throughout the year ended 31 July 2004 (Provision A.2.1).
As noted above, however, the Group also has a Chief Operating Officer who, although not a Director of the Company, bears a large
part of the executive responsibility for the running of the Group's business. In addition, T J Revill is available as the independent
Director to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The majority of Non-Executive Directors are not independent from management or free from any business or other relationship which
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement (Provision A.3.2).
The Company does not currently have a Nominations Committee to make recommendations to the Board on new appointments
(Provision A.5.1).
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises two of the Non-Executive Directors - T J Revill (Chairman) and B S Shepherd. R Jones was
a member of the Remuneration Committee until 19 November 2003 on which date he did not seek re-election to the Board of Directors
of the Company. The Committee meets twice a year to consider, on behalf of the Board, all aspects of Executive Directors' remuneration.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
Areas of non-compliance
The Remuneration Committee does not consist exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors (Provision B.2.2).
The remuneration package for Executive Directors does not formally link a significant proportion of their total remuneration to corporate
and individual performance (Provision B.1.4).
In respect of annual bonuses awarded to Directors, the Company does not follow the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined Code
(Provision B.1.6).
Notice periods for W F Shepherd and D S Hall are currently 24 months, which is in excess of the recommended guidance
of 12 months or less (Provision B.1.7).  18 Newcastle United PLC Annual Report 2004
Statement of corporate governance (continued)
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two of the Non-Executive Directors - T J Revill (Chairman) and B S Shepherd. R Jones was a member
of the Audit Committee until 19 November 2003, on which date he did not seek re-election to the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Committee normally meets twice a year and is attended by Senior Management and representatives of the Group's external
auditors. Time is set aside for discussions with the external auditors in private. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of
accounting and financial policies and controls within the Group.
The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors (including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by them) and their suitability for re-appointment. The Audit
Committee is satisfied that KPMG Audit Plc's objectivity is not impaired by the size and nature of the non-audit work undertaken in
the year.
Areas of non-compliance
The majority of Non-Executive Directors who comprise the Audit Committee are not independent (Provision D.3.1).
Financial reporting
The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. As such, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the accounts.
Internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Group's strategic objectives, and can only provide
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  the Group has in place an on-going
process, described in detail below, for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. This process, which
is subject to an annual Board review of effectiveness, has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Risk assessment
The Board, whilst retaining overall responsibility for the Group's system of risk assessment and internal control, has delegated day
to day responsibility for its implementation to Kenneth Slater, Group Financial Controller and Finance Director of Newcastle United
Football Company Limited. To support him in this task a Risk Management Group, comprising of Business Department Managers,
meets four times a year to review the on-going risk management process and internal control procedures.
The Risk Management Group was established following consultations with external risk management consultants and used the Group
strategic plan as an initial context for risk identification and assessment. Risks identified during this process formed the basis for
a prioritised risk catalogue. Specific areas were allocated to individual members of the Risk Management Group who were given
responsibility for the generation and implementation of relevant action plans. Current risk management has built on this process
by seeking to identify and monitor, as part of a continuous process, the major business risks facing the Group. Inter-departmental
communication is encouraged, and individual Business Department Managers have the opportunity to add further risks to the
catalogue as relevant.
Findings from the Risk Management Group are reported to the Board on a bi-annual basis for consideration and comment. Risk
management, along with health and safety for which the Board also has overall responsibility, are regular Board agenda items.
This material forms the basis for the Board to undertake its annual assessment on internal control.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that in view of the size and nature
of the business, such a function is not currently considered appropriate. The Board will keep this decision under review.