 Director
Number of Meetings
R. Franklin
M. Cairns
B. Duckworth
D. Fitzsimmons
J. Grace
R. Quinlan
16
16
16
16
16
16
15
Meetings of 
Directors
3
*
*
3
*
3
*
8
*
8
8
*
8
*
Audit and
Compliance Remuneration
Meetings of committees
*  Not a member of the relevant committee
Nominations
1
1
1
1
*
1
*
24 Corporate Governance Statement 
NOVERA ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE
Novera Energy plc is listed on the Alternative Investment Market ( AIM') of the London Stock Exchange ( LSE'). AIM-listed 
companies are not required to comply with the disclosure requirements of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance ( the 
Combined Code ) issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006. However, the Board supports the principles 
contained in the Code, complies where appropriate and cost-effective and is committed to maintaining Corporate 
Governance according to industry standards. 
The following report summarises the current corporate governance processes that are in place.  
DIRECTORS
THE BOARD
The Board meets regularly for scheduled Board Meetings and in addition undertakes a separate off-site meeting annually to 
discuss strategy.  The Board also meets as required to deal with urgent business.
The table below lists the number of Board Meetings, Board Committee Meetings, and Directors' attendance during the year 
ended 31 December 2008.
The functions reserved for the Board and management are set out in the Corporate Governance Manual.  The Board of 
Directors are responsible for the direction and oversight of the Group. 
The current Directors bring to the Board considerable experience and expertise in their respective fields thus enhancing the 
effectiveness of the decision-making process.  Details of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Directors are set out on 
pages 22 and 23 of this Annual Report.
The responsibilities of the Board include:
> approval of goals, strategy and plans for the Group's direction and monitoring implementation;
> approval of the Group's risk management and internal control framework;
> approval of Group policies such as remuneration, health & safety and environment;
> discussion and approval of management recommendations such as capital expenditure, capital management, acquisitions 
   and divestitures;
> review of performance and results; 
> review of statutory, regulatory and reporting requirements of the Companies Act and the Stock Exchange ( AIM');
> review of Stock Exchange matters;
> review of related party transactions; and
> appointment and dismissal of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, determining their 
   conditions of service and monitoring their performance against established objectives.
The Corporate Governance Manual and its policies are updated and managed by the Company Secretary.  Responsibility for 
the management of day-to-day operations and administration of the Group is delegated by the Board to the 
Chief Executive Officer. 25
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have separate 
clearly defined responsibilities that are not exercised by the 
same person.  Roy Franklin is Chairman and David 
Fitzsimmons is Chief Executive Officer. 
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE
The Board comprises of four non-executive directors and 
two executive directors.  The Board considers that all the 
Non-executive Directors; Roy Franklin, Michael Cairns, Brian 
Duckworth and James Grace, are independent.  Brian 
Duckworth is the Senior Independent Director.
The independence criteria of the Combined Code are 
considered in all current and future appointments of 
non-executive directors.
The Board's size and composition is subject to the limits 
imposed by the Company's Articles of Association, which 
provides for a minimum of three and a maximum of 
ten directors. 
The Group has detailed and prescribed guidelines on trading 
shares.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.  
They evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board and prepare a description of the 
roles and capabilities required for new Non-executive 
Directors to be appointed to the Board. 
The Nominations Committee meets as necessary, but at 
least once a year.  The current members are the 
Non-executive Directors; Brian Duckworth, James Grace, 
Michael Cairns and Roy Franklin.  The number of meetings 
held by the Committee has been outlined on page 24.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Prior to each scheduled Board Meeting, all Directors are 
presented with the Board Papers which comprise of a 
CEO Report and a Financial Report.  The CEO briefs the 
Board on results, key issues and strategy during the 
Board Meetings. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary.  The Company Secretary ensures that 
good information flows amongst the Board and its 
committees and between senior management and 
non-executive directors.  The Company Secretary also 
advises the Board through the Chairman on all governance 
matters.
The Directors, where appropriate, are able to seek 
independent professional advice at the expense of the 
Group and have unrestricted access to the records and 
information of the Group.
All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board and 
regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge of 
the business.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Key executives have performance expectations in letters of 
appointment and employment contracts.  All executives and 
employees undergo a formal performance review by April 
each year by the Chairman or allocated line manager.  
Position descriptions are updated as part of the 
performance review process. 
RE-ELECTION
All directors are subject to election at the first Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) after appointment, and to re-election 
thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.  
Biographies of all Directors are provided on pages 22 and 
23, and those Directors subject to re-election are notified in 
the Notice of the AGM.  
NOVERA ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 26 Corporate Governance Statement continued 
N O V E RA E N E RGY P L C  A N N U AL R E P O RT A ND A C C O U N TS 2 0 0 8
REMUNERATION
REMUNERATION
Disclosure of directors' remuneration is set out on pages 30 
to 33 of the Remuneration Report.  The Board believes that 
levels of remuneration shall be sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate directors of the quality required to run the Group 
successfully.   A significant proportion of executive directors' 
remuneration shall be structured as to link rewards to 
corporate and individual performance.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include:
>   setting the remuneration policy;
>   ensuring that the remuneration and terms of service of 
     the directors are appropriate;
>   reviewing the structure of the Board; and
>   material changes to the rules of the Group pension or 
     employee share scheme. 
The Committee meets as necessary, but at least once a 
year. The current members are the three Non-executive 
Directors, Brian Duckworth (Chairman), Michael Cairns and 
James Grace.  The number of meetings held by the 
Committee has been outlined on page 24.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Board is committed to ensuring that all communications 
with shareholders present a balanced, understandable 
assessment of the Group's position and prospects. 
The responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors are set out 
in the Directors' Report and Auditors' Report on pages 28 
and 35 respectively. 
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Group's Audit and Compliance Committee ( ACC') 
serves the function of reviewing management practices in 
relation to the identification and management of significant 
risk areas and regulatory compliance. At least one member 
has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Group has in place clearly defined lines of responsibility 
and limits of delegated authority.  Comprehensive 
procedures provide for the appraisal, approval, control and 
review of capital expenditure.
The Group maintains a comprehensive annual budgeting 
and management reporting system.  A detailed annual 
budget is prepared in advance of each year and is 
supplemented by revised forecasts during the course of 
the year.  Actual financial results are reported monthly 
and compared to budget, revised forecasts and prior 
year results.
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
The members of the ACC are Non-executive Directors 
James Grace (Chairman) and Brian Duckworth.
The ACC's primary objectives are to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting 
and internal controls, and also maintaining the relationship 
with the external auditors. 
The responsibilities of the ACC include:
>   making recommendations to the Board on the 
     appointment of external auditors; 
>   reviewing the quality and independence of the external 
     auditors and the rotation of external audit engagement 
     partners;
>   providing an independent, objective review of the 
     adequacy and the integrity of the financial information 
     provided by management to shareholders and regulatory 
     authorities; and
>   reviewing the changes to treasury policies.
The external auditors have a direct line of reporting to the 
ACC and have clear and open access to the Committee 
members. The ACC's policy is to appoint external auditors 
who clearly demonstrate quality and independence. The 
performance of the external auditors is reviewed annually. 
The number of meetings held by the ACC has been outlined 
on page 24.  The formal terms of reference for the ACC are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Manual. NOVERA ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
27  
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Group has a communications strategy to promote 
effective communication with all shareholders and 
encourage effective participation. Communication initiatives 
undertaken by the Group include media announcements 
and the Group's website.  Other than during a closed period 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also 
maintain regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 
throughout the year. 
All information disclosed to the London Stock Exchange 
( LSE') is posted on the Group's website within three days 
of being disclosed to the LSE. Access to price sensitive 
information is rigorously controlled but procedures have 
been established to ensure that any such information is 
immediately released to the market, should it become 
inadvertently disclosed. 
The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for 
management of the Group's continuous disclosure 
obligations  as well as communication with analysts, 
brokers, shareholders, the media and the public, so as to 
ensure that the announcements are timely, factual, clear 
and precise and omit no material information.
Board members attend the AGM and are available to 
answer questions.  Resolutions are proposed on each 
substantially separate issue, including in relation to the 
Report and Accounts and the Directors' Remuneration 
Report.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to all 
shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting. 
 