 Corporate Governance
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH
THE COMBINED CODE
The Directors confirm that in the period
following flotation, the Company has complied
with the provisions of the revised Combined
Code on Corporate Governance issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, other
than as disclosed below. The application of
the principles of the Code, in the composition
and operation of the Board, the remuneration
of the Directors, relations with shareholders
and procedures for financial reporting and
internal control are described below.
DIRECTORS AND THE BOARD
The Board operates formally through regular
Board meetings and informally through regular
communication between the Directors. In the
six months following flotation the Board met
six times and delegated specific
responsibilities to Board committees as
described below.
The Board is responsible to the Company's
shareholders for the management and control
of the Group's activities, its strategic
objectives, its system of corporate
governance and the stewardship of the
Group's resources. This is achieved by regular
review of the key activities of the business
through the monthly management accounts,
detailed reports and presentations.
Additionally, the Board receives copies of
analysts' and brokers' reports and is updated
on any movements in major shareholdings.
There is also a formal schedule of matters
reserved for consideration and approval by
the Board. The Company Secretary is
responsible to the Board and is available to
individual Directors in respect of Board
procedures. The day-to day operational
management of the Group's activities is
delegated to the executive Directors. The
executive Directors have specific
responsibilities and have direct responsibility
for all operations and activities.
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief
Executive, the Finance Director and two
independent non-executive Directors. The
Chairman's main other commitments are
disclosed on page 12. The roles of Chairman
and Chief Executive are separate. The
Chairman is responsible for leadership of the
Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting
its agenda. Once agreed by the Board as a
whole, it is the Chief Executive's responsibility
to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial
objectives. The Board are satisfied with the
division of responsibility between the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The
Board has not formally agreed a detailed job
specification for the Chief Executive Officer as
they do not regard it as appropriate to do so
given the size of the Group.
Both non-executive Directors are independent
of management and free from any business or
other relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement. 
In accordance with the Company's Articles,
not more than one third of the Directors are
required to retire at each AGM, the Directors
to do so being those who have been longest
in office since their last appointment or
election. The non-executive Directors are
subject to election at the forthcoming AGM,
being the first General Meeting following their
appointment.
The Board has not undertaken a formal 
and rigorous evaluation of its own and sub-
committees' performance, but will assess the
collective contribution of the Board of
Directors during 2005.
18 office2office Annual Report 2004 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The Audit Committee's purpose is to assist
the Board in the effective discharge of its
responsibilities for financial reporting and
corporate control. It comprises both
independent non-executive Directors, chaired
by P Bertram. The Committee invites others,
including the Company's external auditors and
the Finance Director, to attend as appropriate.
A report on its activities is given on page 22.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for
advising the Board and making
recommendations on the size, structure and
composition of the Board and the
appointment of new Directors. The Committee
comprises the Chairman and both
independent non-executive Directors and is
chaired by D J Callear. The Committee has
not met in the period following flotation as
there have not been any Board appointments
to consider.
The Remuneration Committee's principal
responsibilities are to review and make
recommendations on the Group's overall
remuneration policy, individual remuneration
packages for executive Directors and the
Chairman, salary structure and employment
terms for Senior Management and the terms
and conditions of any Group share scheme.
The Committee comprises both independent
non-executive Directors and is chaired by 
J L Cohen. When necessary, non-committee
members are invited to attend by prior
arrangement with the Remuneration
Committee. A report on its activities is given
on page 24.
The terms of reference for these Committees
can be found on the Company's website.
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 27
includes details of remuneration policies and
of the remuneration of the Directors.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
The number of full Board meetings and
Committee meetings attended by each
Director in the six months following flotation
was as follows:
Corporate Governance
19 office2office Annual Report 2004
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 
Committee Committee Committee
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
Chairman
D J Callear 6 6 - - - - - -
Executive Directors
R C Peck 6 6 - - - - - -
M A Cunningham 6 6 - - - - - -
Non-executive Directors
J L Cohen 6 6 2 2 3 3 - -
P Bertram 6 6 2 2 3 3 - - Corporate Governance
RELATIONSHIPS WITH
SHAREHOLDERS
The Board considers effective communication
with shareholders, whether institutional
investors, private or employee shareholders,
to be extremely important.
The Company reports formally to shareholders
twice a year, when its half-year and full-year
results are announced and an interim report
and a full report respectively are issued to
shareholders. These reports are posted on the
Company's website (www.office2office.biz). 
At the same time, executive Directors give
presentations on the results to institutional
investors, analysts and the media in London
and Edinburgh. Copies of major presentations
are also posted on the Company's website. In
November the Company hosted a site visit at
its Basingstoke warehouse for institutional
investors.
The Company's Annual General Meeting takes
place in Norwich and formal notification is
sent to shareholders with the Annual Report
at least 20 working days in advance of the
meeting. The Directors are available, formally
during the AGM and informally afterwards, for
questions. Details of the 2005 AGM are set
out in the notice of the meeting enclosed with
this Annual Report.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with
major institutional shareholders and fund
managers. The Chairman and the Senior
Independent Director are always available to
shareholders on all matters relating to
governance.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors are responsible for the Group's
systems of internal controls and for reviewing
their effectiveness. The internal control
systems are designed to meet the Group's
needs and address the risks to which it is
exposed. Such systems manage, rather than
eliminate, the risks faced by the business and
can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or
loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the Group which has been in place
throughout the year under review and up to
the date of approval of this Annual Report.
This process is regularly reviewed by the
Board to ensure that material risks and
problems are identified and appropriate 
action taken at an early stage. 
The key elements of the Group's procedures
and internal financial control framework are:
  the close involvement of the executive
Directors in all aspects of day-to-day
operations, including regular meetings with
senior staff from all parts of the business to
review all operational aspects of the
business;
  clearly defined responsibilities and limits of
authority. The Board has responsibility for
strategy and has adopted a schedule of
matters which are required to be brought 
to it for decision;
  a comprehensive system of financial
reporting, forecasting and budgeting.
Detailed budgets are prepared annually for
all parts of the business. Reviews occur
through the management structure
culminating in a Group budget, including
forecasts for the next two years, which is
considered and approved by the Board.
20 office2office Annual Report 2004 Financial accounts are prepared monthly and
submitted to the Board to review actual
performance, relative to budget and prior year,
of the Group. Explanations are provided for
significant variances as identified and
investigated. Detailed expense reports with
comparisons against budget are issued
monthly to cost centre managers to assist in
cost control. Variances from budget are
closely monitored, and a comprehensive
annual review of risks across the Group is
produced. The review is followed up by
regular updates to the Board about the
effectivness of internal controls.
In view of the Group's controls structure
summarised above, and on advice from the
Audit Committee, the Board has resolved that
at the present time there is no need to
establish an internal audit function.
CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
Measures to ensure responsible business
conduct and the identification and
assessment of risks associated with social,
ethical and environmental matters are
managed in conjunction with all other
business risks and reviewed at regular
meetings of the Board and executive
management meetings.
A summary report on the Group's policies and
targets for corporate social responsibility is set
out on page 13. 
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the
principles of its corporate social responsibility
annually. 
Corporate Governance
21 office2office Annual Report 2004