 19 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2007
for the year ended 31 August 2007
Corporate governance report
The Board supports the principles of corporate governance
contained in the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting
Council.The Company is moving towards voluntarily
applying the principles of the Combined Code as indicated
below.
The Board
The Group's business is managed by the Board of Directors.
The full Board meets regularly, and met a total of six times
during the year ended 31 August 2007. Meetings include
discussion of current and future performance and strategy.
In addition, terms of reference for full Board approval are in
place, which includes inter alia, the approval of annual and
interim results, significant transactions, major capital
expenditures, the yearly business plan and budget, the
Group's long term commercial strategy, establishing financial
authority limits, litigation, conflict of interest and share
dealing policies and executive remuneration and
appointments.
Each Board member receives regular management accounts
including a review and analysis of performance against
budget and other forecasts. Directors are sent an agenda
and a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be
discussed at the meeting. Additional information is provided
as appropriate.
The Board currently consists of six directors, three of whom
are non-executive.Their names are set out on page 12.
The Company has a separate Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman. Dr. Pierre Jungels, Gary Jones and Keith Lough
are considered by the Board to be free from any business 
or other relationship that could materially impact their
independent judgement.The non-executive directors receive
a fixed fee for their services and all non-executive directors
receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in
attending meetings.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take
independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations 
are followed.
The Chairman ensures that new directors receive a full,
formal and tailored induction on joining the Board. As 
part of this induction, the Company would offer major
shareholders the opportunity to meet a new non-executive
director.
Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility for the
Company, the day to day management of the business 
is conducted by the executive directors. In addition, in
accordance with best practice, the Board has established
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with
written terms of reference for each that set out their 
duties and authority.
Committees of the Board
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets as and when required.
The members of the committee comprise Keith Lough
(Chairman), Gary Jones and Dr. Pierre Jungels. As noted
above all three directors are considered to be independent
non-executive directors.The Committee's terms of
reference are principally concerned with accounting matters,
financial reporting and internal controls.The Committee
meets to review all significant judgments made in the
preparation of the half-yearly and annual accounts, before
they are submitted to the Board. It agrees with the auditors
the nature and scope of their work and discusses with them
the result thereof.The Committee has the power to seek
external advice as and when required. In addition, the Audit
Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding
the appointment of the external auditors, reviews their
independence and objectivity and is also responsible for
agreeing the level of audit fees and monitoring the provision
of non audit services provided by the Group's auditors.
Members of the Audit Committee make themselves
available so that staff of the Company may, in confidence,
raise concerns about possible financial improprieties or
other matters of concern.The Audit Committee has
arrangements in place for the proportionate and
independent investigation of such matters and for
appropriate follow up action.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required.
It comprises Gary Jones (Chairman), Keith Lough and 
Dr. Pierre Jungels. As noted above, all three directors are
considered to be independent non-executive directors.The
Committee's objective is to develop remuneration packages
for executive directors that enable the Group to attract,
retain and motivate executives of the appropriate calibre
without paying more than necessary. No director is involved
in deciding his or her remuneration.The Board's policy 
on executive remuneration and the details of executive
director's individual remuneration packages are fixed by 
the Committee or the Board. Full details of the directors'
remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 16 to 18.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required.
It considers the appointment of both executive and non-
executive directors and makes recommendations to the
Board. It comprises Dr. Pierre Jungels (Chairman), Keith
Lough and Gary Jones, and as noted above, all three
directors are considered to be independent non-executive
directors. All directors are required to submit themselves
for re-election by the shareholders at the Company's Annual
General Meeting following their first appointment and
thereafter at least every three years. Notwithstanding this,
at least one third of all directors must submit themselves 
for re-election each year. At the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting Dr. Lucy MacGregor and David Pratt will
submit themselves for re-election, having either retired by
rotation or having been appointed since the last Annual
General Meeting.
The terms of reference of the committees of the Board,
explaining their respective roles and the authority 
delegated to them by the Board are available on the
Company's website.
Board balance and independence 
During the year and up to the date of this Report, the Board
continued to be of the opinion that Dr. Pierre Jungels, Keith
Lough and Gary Jones were independent within the meaning
of the Code. On 28 March 2007 , Dr. Pierre Jungels was
appointed as the Senior Independent Director and carried
out this role up to the date of this report. 20 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2007
The independent non-executive directors review and
monitor strategy, the performance of management, the
integrity of financial information and control and risk
management.Through the Remuneration and Nomination
Committee they are also responsible for setting the
remuneration of the executive directors and of senior
executives below Board level and for planning Board 
and senior management succession.
The following table sets out the number of Board and
Committee meetings held during the year and the directors'
attendance at each.
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Executive
David Pratt
Chief Executive Officer 6 2 2 1
Dr. Lucy MacGregor
Chief Scientific Officer 5 - - -
Bob Auckland
Chief Financial Officer 6 2 2 1
Non-executive
Dr. Pierre Jungels
Non-executive Chairman 6 2 2 1
Keith Lough 5 2 2 1
Gary Jones 6 2 2 1
Former directors
Landon Clay 1 - - -
Jeffery Garner 5 - - -
T otal number 
of meetings 6 2 2 1
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for establishing and monitoring
internal control systems, and for reviewing the effectiveness
of these systems.The Board views effective operation of a
rigorous system of internal control as critical to the success
of the Group, however it recognises that such systems can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material mis-statement or loss.The key elements of the
Group's internal control systems are as follows:
Control environment
The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined
responsibilities and accountabilities. It adopts the highest
values surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and these
values are documented and communicated clearly
throughout the whole organisation.
Identification and evaluation of risks
The Board actively identifies and evaluates the risks inherent
in the business, and ensures that appropriate controls and
procedures are in place to manage these risks.
Health, Safety and the Environment
The Board receives reports from David Pratt who is
Chairman of the Company's HSE Committee.T wo other
executive directors, Dr. Lucy MacGregor and Bob Auckland
also sit on this committee.The Company believes that it
best serves its stakeholders by ensuring that its activities are
carried out in a safe and environmentally sensitive manner.
Control procedures 
Detailed written policies and procedures have been
established covering key financial operating and compliance
risk areas.These will be reviewed and updated at least
annually by the Board. Due to the nature of the Group's
operations and its size, the Board considers that there is no
current requirement for an internal audit function although
it will continue to review the requirement for such a
function on a periodic basis.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee reviews the nature and extent of the
services provided to the Group by BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
and are satisfied with the independence of the Group's
auditors.
Performance evaluation
The performance of the Chairman and each director will be
formally evaluated on an annual basis.The non-executive
directors will meet annually, and whenever deemed
necessary, to appraise the Chairman's performance in the
absence of the Chairman.The performance of non-executive
directors, other than the Chairman, will be reviewed by the
Chairman and the executive directors.The performance of
the executive directors will be reviewed by the Board, as
deemed necessary, in the absence of the executive director
under review.
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to constructive dialogue with 
its shareholders.The Company uses the Annual General
Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its
shareholders. Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which
will be held at 12.00noon on 19 December 2007 at the office
of KBC Peel Hunt Ltd, 1 1 1 Old Broad Street, London EC2N
1PH, is enclosed with this report. Details of the resolutions
and explanatory notes thereon are included with the Notice
along with a proxy form for members of the Company
unable to attend.
The Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent
Company Director, meets with major shareholders during
the year to develop an understanding of their views about
the Company.
The Group's website www.OHMsurveys.com is the primary
source of information on the Group.This includes an
overview of the activities of the Group, and details of all
recent Group announcements.
Statement of compliance
The directors are satisfied that the Company is now
voluntarily complying, so far as the Board considers
appropriate for a group of this size, with the Code
provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006 by the
Financial Reporting Council.
By order of the Board
Bob Auckland
Company Secretary
19 November 2007
Corporate Governance Report continued