 18 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2006
The Board supports the principles of corporate governance
advocated by The Principles of Good Governance and 
Code of Best Practice (the Combined Code) issued by 
the Financial Services Authority.The Company is moving
towards voluntarily applying the principles of the Combined
Code as indicated below.
The Board
The Group's business is managed by the Board of Directors.
The full Board meets regularly, and met a total of eight times
during the year ended 31 August 2006. Meetings include
discussion of current and future performance and strategy.
In addition, terms of reference for full Board approval are in
place, which includes inter alia, the approval of annual and
interim results, significant transactions, major capital
expenditures, the yearly business plan and budget, the
Group's long term commercial strategy, establishing financial
authority limits, litigation, conflict of interest and share
dealing policies and executive remuneration and
appointments.
Each Board member receives regular management accounts
including a review and analysis of performance against
budget and other forecasts. Directors are sent an agenda
and a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be
discussed at the meeting. Additional information is provided
as appropriate.
The Board currently consists of seven directors, four of
whom are non-executive.Their names are set out on page
12.The Company has a separate Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman. Gary Jones and Keith Lough are considered
by the Board to be free from any business or other
relationship that could materially impact their independent
judgement.The non-executive directors receive a fixed fee
for their services and all non-executive directors receive
reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in 
attending meetings.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take
independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations 
are followed.
During the year, the Company contracted with Rockhopper
Exploration plc to provide it with a controlled source
electromagnetic survey. As Dr. Pierre Jungels is Chairman 
of both companies, he declared his conflict of interest to 
the Board and stepped aside from discussion.The decision
to proceed with the contract with Rockhopper was made
by the remaining directors as being in the best interests of
shareholders. Likewise, the contract negotiation was
conducted without his participation.
Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility for the
Company, the day to day management of the business is
conducted by the executive directors. In addition, in
accordance with best practice, the Board has established
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with
written terms of reference for each that set out their 
duties and authority.
Committees of the Board
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets as and when required.
The members of the committee comprise Keith Lough
(Chairman), Gary Jones and Dr. Pierre Jungels. As noted
above both Keith Lough and Gary Jones are considered to
be independent non-executive directors.The Committee's
terms of reference are principally concerned with
accounting matters, financial reporting and internal controls.
The Committee meets to review all significant judgments
made in the preparation of the half-yearly and annual
accounts, before they are submitted to the Board. It agrees
with the auditors the nature and scope of their work and
discusses with them the result thereof.The Committee has
the power to seek external advice as and when required.
In addition, the Audit Committee makes recommendations
to the Board regarding the appointment of the external
auditors, reviews their independence and objectivity and 
is also responsible for agreeing the level of audit fees and
monitoring the provision of non audit services provided 
by the Group's auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was established in March
2004 and meets as and when required. It comprises 
Gary Jones (Chairman) and Keith Lough. As noted above,
both Keith Lough and Gary Jones are considered to be
independent non-executive directors.The Committee's
objective is to develop remuneration packages for executive
directors that enable the Group to attract, retain and
motivate executives of the appropriate calibre without
paying more than necessary. No director is involved in
deciding his or her remuneration.The Board's policy on
executive remuneration and the details of executive
director's individual remuneration packages are fixed by 
the Committee or the Board. Full details of the directors'
remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report on
pages 15 to 17.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required.
It considers the appointment of both executive and non-
executive directors and makes recommendations to the
Board. It comprises Dr. Pierre Jungels (Chairman),
Keith Lough and Gary Jones, and as noted above, both 
Keith Lough and Gary Jones are considered to be
independent non-executive directors. All directors are
required to submit themselves for re-election by the
shareholders at the Company's Annual General Meeting
following their first appointment and thereafter at least
every three years. Notwithstanding this, at least one third 
of all directors must submit themselves for re-election each
year. At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Bob
Auckland, Dr. Pierre Jungels, Keith Lough and Jeffrey Garner
will submit themselves for re-election, having either retired
by rotation or having been appointed since the last Annual
General Meeting.
for the year ended 31 August 2006
Corporate Governance Report 19 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2006
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for establishing and monitoring
internal control systems, and for reviewing the effectiveness
of these systems.The Board views effective operation of a
rigorous system of internal control as critical to the success
of the Group; however it recognises that such systems can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material mis-statement or loss.The key elements of the
Group's internal control systems are as follows:
Control environment
The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined
responsibilities and accountabilities. It adopts the highest
values surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and these
values are documented and communicated clearly
throughout the whole organisation.
Identification and evaluation of risks
The Board actively identifies and evaluates the risks inherent
in the business, and ensures that appropriate controls and
procedures are in place to manage these risks.
Health, Safety and the Environment
The Board receives at each of its meetings a report 
from David Pratt who is Chairman of the Company's 
HSE Committee.T wo other executive directors,
Dr. Lucy MacGregor and Bob Auckland also sit on this
committee.The Company believes that it best serves its
stakeholders by ensuring that its activities are carried out 
in a safe and environmentally sensitive manner.
Control procedures 
Detailed written policies and procedures have been
established covering key financial operating and compliance
risk areas.These will be reviewed and updated at least
annually by the Board. Due to the nature of the Group's
operations and its size, the Board considers that there is no
current requirement for an internal audit function although
it will continue to review the requirement for such a
function on a periodic basis.
Performance evaluation
The performance of the Chairman and each director will 
be formally evaluated on an annual basis.The non-executives
will meet annually, and whenever deemed necessary, to
appraise the Chairman's performance in the absence of 
the Chairman.The performance of non-executive directors,
other than the Chairman, will be reviewed by the Chairman
and the executive directors.The performance of the
executive directors will be reviewed by the Board, as
deemed necessary, in the absence of the executive director
under review.
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to constructive dialogue with 
its shareholders.The Company uses the Annual General
Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its
shareholders. Notice of the Annual General Meeting,
which will be held at 2pm on 1 December 2006 at the office
of KBC Peel Hunt Ltd, 1 1 1 Old Broad Street London 
EC2N 1PH, is enclosed with this report. Details of the
resolutions and explanatory notes thereon are included 
with the Notice along with a proxy form for members of 
the Company unable to attend.
The Group's website www.OHMsurveys.com is the primary
source of information on the Group.This includes an
overview of the activities of the Group, and details of 
all recent Group announcements.
Statement of compliance
The directors are satisfied that the Company is now
voluntarily complying, so far as the Board considers
appropriate for a group of this size, with the Code
provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
By order of the Board
Bob Auckland
Company Secretary
17 October 2006 