 29 Optimal Payments Plc   Annual Report 2010
Business Review 02 - 21
Governance 22 - 41
Financial Information 42 - 74
Company Information 75 - ibc
Corporate Governance Statement
Sound corporate governance remains a key priority, and is a central factor in the way the business is run and in the mindset of its staff.
The Board believes that clear direction and understanding, robust internal controls, and high standards of integrity should be 
dominant factors in the way the Group is managed.
To effect this, the Board has maintained written policies since 2004 governing various aspects of the Group's operations and 
procedures, which underpin further operational policies and procedures. These policies are reviewed regularly to ensure conformity 
with current legislation, regulations, and changing market conditions. New policies are introduced when considered appropriate and 
a total of two new policies were introduced during 2010.
The Board reviews this policy framework and sets and monitors fundamental internal policies and external requirements on a 
continuing basis, with the aim of minimising strategic, operational, financial and market risks as far as possible, and to make 
decisions based on such a risk based approach. The Board fully endorses the spirit of the Combined Code, as set out in the UK 
Listing Authority Listing Rules (the Code ) and, as far as practically possible, the Board seeks to ensure that the Company complies 
with the principles of the Code, whilst being cognisant of the Company's specific circumstances in terms of its size, nature and stage 
of development.
Board of Directors
The Board comprises three Executive Directors (Mark Mayhew, Keith Butcher and Joel Leonoff) and four Non-Executive Directors (John 
Bateson, Jonathan Comerford, Dale Johnson and Ian Francis) whose Board and Committee responsibilities as at 31 December 2010 
and currently are set out in the table below. The Directors' biographies on page 24 illustrate their relevant corporate and industry 
experience.
Membership of the three Board Committees is as follows:
 Position Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Dale Johnson Non-Executive Chairman Chairman - - Chairman
Mark Mayhew President & CEO Member - - Member
John Bateson Non-Executive Director Member Member Member Member
Keith Butcher CFO Member - - Member
Jonathan Comerford Non-Executive Director Member - Chairman Member
Ian Francis Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member
Joel Leonoff CEO Member - - Member
Ian Cobbold Non-executive director of NETELLER  - Member - - 
 (UK) Limited, the Group's UK FSA  
 regulated subsidiary 
The Non-Executive Chairman, Dale Johnson, is responsible for the running of the Board, and he, together with the CEO, is responsible 
for liaising with the Company Secretary to ensure that all Directors receive sufficient and relevant information of a financial, business 
and corporate nature prior to meetings. The Chairman encourages the Board to act as a single unit by obtaining consensus at Board 
meetings. In exceptional circumstances decisions would be taken by majority.
Executive responsibility for the running of the Group's business rests with Mark Mayhew and Joel Leonoff, being joint CEOs since the 
acquisition of Optimal Payments, who are supported in this by the Executive Management Team.
It is the Board's policy that all new Director appointments will be considered and, if appropriate, approved by the full Board, 
following consideration by the Nominations and Remuneration Committees of any incoming Director's remuneration package.  Optimal Payments Plc   Annual Report 2010 30
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
Meeting attendance
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director appear in the tables at the beginning of the Report of 
the Directors, the Nominations Committee Report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the Audit Committee Report respectively.
The Board communicates frequently and meets at regular intervals, and at these meetings the Directors are responsible for approval 
of the overall strategy and major developments of the Group. The co-CEOs and the Executive Management Team are responsible for 
coordinating and implementing the approved business strategy.
The Board approves the annual budget and monitors monthly the performance of the Company, Group and Executive Management 
Team against the approved budget and a range of key performance indicators, as well as considering employee issues and key 
appointments. All members of the Board are able to take independent professional advice in relation to their duties as a Director of 
the Company, at the Company's expense, should they wish to do so.
During 2010, the Company Secretary, to whom all Directors have access, attended Board and Committee meetings, and ensured 
compliance with relevant procedural obligations, as well as being available for provision of advice to the Company and Directors.
The Directors submit themselves for re-election, in accordance with the Group's Articles of Association and the Code, at least once 
every three years.
A summary of the performance and financial position of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 is set out in the 
Chairman's Statement, the CEO's Statement, the Business Review and the Financial Review. The Board believes that this information 
provides a balanced assessment of the Company and the Group's financial position and future prospects. The responsibilities of the 
Directors are set out on page 25.
Internal control and risk management
The Board attaches considerable importance to the Group's systems of internal control and risk management by establishing a 
continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks which the Company and Group face.
During 2010 the exposures to risk, including the changing regulatory environments within the industry and the continuing adverse 
consequences of the global economic downturn, were closely monitored by the Group. A summary of the key risks facing the business 
is set out in the section Business Risks  on pages 18 to 21.
The Director of Internal Audit remains Andrew Hayes and a further appointment was made to the internal audit team during 2010 
which further strengthened the function. A direct line of communication between the Audit Committee and the internal audit team 
enables close monitoring of the work carried out by this specialist team and, combined with frequent communication with the Group's 
external auditors, this ensures that sufficient controls for managing risks are in place in line with the Code. Risk management covers 
operations, security, compliance, finance and strategy. The Audit Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, monitors these areas 
closely with regular input from the Chief Risk Officer, and applicable matters are reviewed at meetings of the Audit Committee. 
The Group's Enterprise Risk Management Framework ensures that risks are managed effectively in support of the Group's strategic, 
business and governance objectives.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and the Board 
recognises that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Further details of the Internal Audit function can be found in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 38 and 39.
The Group also operates an accounting and budgeting system, which is reported and analysed on a monthly basis. Variances 
between budget and actual results are analysed thoroughly to ensure that any material differences are investigated appropriately.
In addition, the Company has adopted the Model Code for dealings in securities of the Company by relevant employees  of the 
Group, and Directors of the Company or Group companies. Further, the Directors will also continue to comply with Rule 21 of the 
AIM Rules relating to Directors' dealings and will take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the Group and the Group's 
relevant employees. 31 Optimal Payments Plc   Annual Report 2010
Business Review 02 - 21
Governance 22 - 41
Financial Information 42 - 74
Company Information 75 - ibc
Communications with investors
The Group is strongly committed to good investor communications and seeks to build a relationship of mutual understanding with 
both its institutional and private investors. The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests in the Group's 
strategy and performance. The co-CEOs and the Chief Financial Officer, assisted by the Vice President, Corporate Development & 
Communications, meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis and make themselves available for calls as appropriate. 
The Company holds briefings with institutional fund managers, analysts and other investors, primarily following the announcement 
of interim and final results, as well as at other times during the year as may be appropriate. The Company's programme of investor 
relations activities is designed to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and consistent view of the Group's 
performance. Care is taken to ensure that any price sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same time in 
accordance with FSA requirements.
All shareholders are welcomed to the Company's Annual General Meeting, at which the Board of Directors will be available to 
answer questions from shareholders. Communication is also provided through the Annual Report and the Interim Report and the 
investor relations area on the Company's website (www.optimalpayments.com). The Group's corporate website provides information 
as required by Rule 26 of the AIM Rules in addition to general corporate and investor information. All material public and regulatory 
announcements are reviewed by the Board and the Company's nominated adviser prior to release and publication. The Board 
receives reports from the Company's broker twice a year that communicate feedback from institutional shareholders. The Board 
reviews analyst and press coverage of the Company regularly at Board meetings, and receives reports twice a year from its financial 
public relations adviser regarding the views of analysts.
The Group also maintains a portal for UK-based shareholders that provides an online record of shareholdings and shareholder 
details. Further information is set out at the end of the Annual Report.
Enquiries from shareholders are always welcome and can be directed to Andrew Gilchrist, Vice President, Corporate Development & 
Communications at the following email address: investorrelations@optimalpayments.com or by telephone to +44 1624 698713.