 Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2013 44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
As at 30 September 2013, all of the Non executive Directors were 
independent as provided for by the Code.
Role of Non executive Directors
The Company's Non executive Directors provide input to the business by 
contributing to the oversight function of the Board and to the development 
of the Company's strategy. Non executive Directors are required to be 
satisfied that the financial information is accurate and that the internal 
controls and policies and procedures governing risk management are 
effective and appropriate. The Company's Non executive Directors are 
available to shareholders. The Non executive Directors met as a group 
on two occasions during the financial year ended 30 September 2013 
without the presence of Executive Directors. 
Board process and information
The Board met twelve times during the year, including once over 
a two day period with senior management to focus on strategy 
and business planning. Dialogue occurs regularly between Directors 
outside of scheduled meetings. Meeting agendas include review 
and approval of minutes recorded of the previous meeting, matters 
arising, items for discussion, special items, items for note and any other 
business. Board materials are distributed by the Company Secretary 
normally not less than seven days in advance of meeting dates to allow 
Directors to adequately prepare for meetings. The Board receives 
operational and financial information to assist in monitoring and assessing 
the ongoing performance of the business on a monthly basis. This 
includes reports from the CEO, CFO and Company Secretary. The Board 
also schedules and reviews special items covering business critical areas 
during the year. The Executive with responsibility for the special item 
submits a written report covering the item, which is included in the Board 
materials, and attends the Board meeting by invitation for that part of the 
agenda to discuss the report in detail. 
No one other than Directors and the Company Secretary is entitled to be 
present at Board meetings unless specifically invited to attend. In those 
instances when a Director has been unable to attend Board or Committee 
meetings, his or her comments on the papers for that meeting are 
communicated to the Chairman in advance so that they can be 
duly considered.
Combined Code
The Board of Directors (Board) remains committed to ensuring 
high standards of corporate governance are maintained and continues 
to manage the Company's affairs in accordance with the principles 
and provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
(September 2012). 
Statement of compliance
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the 
principles and provisions set out in the Code throughout the year 
ended 30 September 2013.
Board of Directors
The principal duty of the Board is to represent and protect the interests 
of the Company's shareholders by ensuring that the Company is 
well managed and operated in a way which is in the interests of its 
shareholders. The Board is responsible for oversight of the formulation 
and implementation of the strategy of the Company. The Board is also 
responsible for oversight of the Company's operations and has an 
obligation to keep informed of the Company's activities and appropriate 
policies and procedures in order to assist management in formulating, 
developing and implementing plans and serves as a body to review 
and provide advice to management on the operations of the Company. 
The Board is committed to reviewing its membership on a regular basis. 
The Chairman ensures that Board discussions are conducted taking all 
views into account so that no one individual Director or small group of 
Directors dominate the proceedings.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
There is a distinct and defined division of responsibilities between 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Chairman 
is primarily responsible for the effective working of the Board and the 
CEO is responsible for the operational management of the business 
and for the implementation of strategy as agreed by the Board. 
The division of responsibilities is reviewed annually by the Board.
Board balance and independence
During the accounting period the Board comprised, as Executive 
Directors, Roy Davis, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Louisa Burdett, 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) until 17 July 2013. The Non executive Directors 
comprised Dr Peter Fellner, Barry Rose (until 31 May 2013), John Goddard, 
Dr Peter Kehoe, David Wilson and Rosalyn Wilton.  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2013 45
The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the 
Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board continued to apply C.2 of the Code by establishing a continuous 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that are 
considered significant. Its system is designed to manage the risk and 
can only be a reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
A Group Risk and Control Framework has been established 
and includes a range of controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance. It is based principally on reviewing reports from 
management and considering whether significant risks are identified, 
evaluated, classified and controlled and ensuring that any significant 
weaknesses are promptly and properly remedied. This includes manuals of 
policies and procedures applicable to all material aspects of the business, 
a budgetary control system which includes monitoring actual performance 
against pre determined plans, and the appointment of suitably qualified 
and experienced staff to execute on their agreed responsibilities. 
External audit risk assessment and planning is in place. The Audit 
Committee considers and determines relevant action in respect 
of any control issues raised by either the Executive Directors 
or the external Auditor. 
There is currently no dedicated internal audit function. The Directors 
review and determine the requirement for a dedicated internal audit 
function on an annual basis. The Directors have determined, based on the 
size and complexity of the Group, that a dedicated internal audit function 
is not currently required. If any specific internal control weakness is either 
perceived or identified, the Directors will engage an independent third 
party to carry out additional tests.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes an evaluation of its own performance and that 
of its Committees and individual Directors, including an assessment 
of the effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and Non executive 
Directors and Company Secretary. During this evaluation, consideration 
is given to the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge 
of the Company, Board diversity (including gender), how the Board 
works together as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
A meeting in the financial year ended 30 September 2013 of the 
Company's Non executive Directors under the leadership of the 
SID without the presence of the Chairman and Executive Directors 
to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman took place. 
The SID discussed the feedback with the Chairman.
Functions of the Board
The Board acknowledges and accepts its statutory duties and in doing 
so encourages the long term success of the Company by exercising 
independent judgement with respect to material strategic and operational 
issues; safeguarding corporate assets by reviewing the financial policies and 
affairs of the Company and overseeing the Company's financial reporting 
process and internal controls; reviewing of the adequacy of the Company's 
systems for compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; overseeing 
the Company's risk management process and ensuring that the Company 
has appropriate procedures in place to manage risks; and evaluating the 
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees at least annually. The Board 
delegates to the Company's Operating Board (which is chaired by the 
CEO and comprised of the Company's senior management and meets 
regularly), certain decisions, including implementing the strategy, 
operational plans and policies of the Company and the Company's 
subsidiary companies as determined by the Board; delivering the 
operating and financial results against budgets; and managing and 
controlling the allocation of capital, human and technical resources.
Senior Independent Director
The Code recommends that the Board should appoint one of its 
independent Non executive Directors to serve as the Company's senior 
independent director (SID). David Wilson is the SID for the Company 
and is available to shareholders. Employees can contact the SID under 
the provisions set out in the Group's Whistle Blowing Policy if they 
have concerns that have not been resolved through normal channels 
or for which contact through the normal channels is inappropriate. 
Accountability and audit 
All Directors have accepted a duty of care and accountability to act in 
the interests of the Company. The Audit Committee has a particular role, 
acting independently from management, to ensure that the interests 
of shareholders are properly protected relative to financial reporting 
and internal control. 
Risk management and internal control
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
monitoring, evaluating and managing the Company's significant risks, that 
such a process has been in place for the year ended 30 September 2013 
and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that 
it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the internal 
control guidance for Directors relative to the Code.