 Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 26
The Board 
The Pace plc Board is accountable to the 
Company's shareholders for standards of 
governance across the Group's businesses. 
Certain strategic decision-making powers 
and authorities of the Company are 
reserved as matters for the Board. Whilst 
day-to-day operational decisions are 
managed by the Chief Executive Officer 
the principal matters reserved for the 
Board are set out below:
   setting the overall strategic direction 
and oversight of the management 
of the Company;
   recommending or declaring dividends;
   approval of the Company 
consolidated financial statements;
   approval of major corporate 
transactions and commitments;
   succession planning and 
appointments to the Board and senior 
management remuneration; 
   review of the Group's overall corporate 
governance arrangements including 
systems of internal controls and risk 
management; and
   approval of the delegation of authority 
to the Chief Executive Officer and the 
terms of reference of all Committees 
of the Board.
Where appropriate, matters are 
delegated to a Committee which will 
consider them in accordance with its 
terms of reference.
Details of each Committee's terms of 
reference are available on the Pace website 
at www.pace.com
The Board of directors currently 
comprises two executive and four 
non-executive directors who bring a wide 
range of skills and experience to the Board. 
Biographical details of all directors are 
to be found on pages 24 and 25. The 
Chairman, Allan Leighton, is mainly 
responsible for the running of the Board, 
ensuring, together with the Company 
Secretary, that it receives timely and clear 
information appropriate to enable it to 
discharge its duties. The responsibilities 
of the Chief Executive Officer, Mike Pulli, 
are to focus on running the Group's 
business and implementing Group 
strategy. The Chief Executive Officer 
is assisted in managing the business 
on a day-to-day basis by the Executive 
Committee as further described below.
All the non-executive directors (other than 
the Chairman) are deemed by the Board 
to be independent and the Chairman was 
deemed independent on his appointment, 
as required by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. In addition, the Board 
has designated Pat Chapman-Pincher as 
the Senior Independent Director. All directors 
have access to the advice and services 
of the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary and are able to take independent 
professional advice at the Company's 
expense in the furtherance of their duties, 
if necessary. Each of the directors submit 
themselves for re-election on an annual 
basis. New directors receive a programme 
of tailored induction on joining the Board 
and all directors are offered the opportunity 
to continually update their skills and 
knowledge by attending external training 
events. The Company has in place 
procedures to deal with directors' conflicts 
of interest and the Board is satisfied that 
these procedures operate effectively.
The Board normally meets at least eight 
times each year. It reviews the strategic 
direction of the Group and meets with 
other senior executives and employees 
within the Group as required during the 
year. The Chairman holds meetings with 
the non-executive directors without the 
executive directors being present on a 
regular basis. It is the policy of the Board 
to undertake a formal review and 
evaluation of its performance including 
the performance of its committees, the 
Chairman and individual directors on an 
annual basis. This is generally concluded 
by written feedback in standardised form 
from each director to the Chairman or the 
Senior Independent Director in the case 
of appraisal of the Chairman. The Board 
will consider appointing an independent 
facilitator for the evaluation process at 
least once every three years and chose 
not to do so in 2013.
Board committees
The Board has established the following 
committees, each of which has written 
terms of reference specifying its authority 
and duties and copies of which are publicly 
available on the Company's website.
The Audit & Risk Committee 
is comprised of independent 
designated non-executive directors 
Pat Chapman-Pincher, Amanda Mesler 
and John Grant, who is the Chairman 
of the Committee. John Grant was 
previously Group Finance Director 
of a listed business and is considered 
by the Board to have the necessary 
recent and relevant financial experience 
for his role as Chairman. 
Details of the role and of the primary 
responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee 
are explained on pages 29 to 31
The Executive Committee is chaired 
by Mike Pulli as Chief Executive Officer. 
The Committee generally meets once a 
month and ensures that the strategy, 
plans and policies previously agreed or 
delegated by the Board are implemented.
Framework of Corporate Governance
_1_PIC_ar13_Middle_[MR].indd   26 20/03/2014   12:22:31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 27
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
The Executive Committee comprises 
two executive directors together with 
the senior executives shown in the 
table above.
The Remuneration Committee 
is comprised of Allan Leighton and 
independent designated non-executive 
directors John Grant, Amanda Mesler 
and Pat Chapman-Pincher, who is 
the Chairman of the Committee. The 
Committee is responsible for setting the 
remuneration of the executive directors 
and other members of the Executive 
Committee and wider Executive Team, 
including making recommendations 
regarding the grant of share incentive 
awards. The members of the Committee 
have no personal interest, other than 
as shareholders, in the matters to be 
decided, no potential conflicts of interest 
arising from cross-directorships and no 
day-to-day involvement in the running of 
the business. Where directors do hold 
other external positions, these are not 
considered to have any impact on their 
duties for the Group. 
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration Committee reviews 
the performance of the executive directors 
and other members of the Executive 
Committee as a prelude to recommending 
their annual remuneration, bonus awards 
and long-term share incentive awards to 
the Board. The final determinations are 
made by the Board as a whole but no 
director plays a part in any discussions 
concerning their own remuneration. 
There are no agreements between the 
Company and its directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment (whether through 
resignation, purported redundancy or 
otherwise) that occurs as a result 
of a takeover bid.
The Remuneration Report of the directors 
to shareholders, including the remuneration policy 
of the Company, is set out on pages 33 to 46
The Nomination Committee is 
comprised of non-executive directors 
Pat Chapman-Pincher, John Grant 
and Amanda Mesler and is chaired by 
Allan Leighton. Its principal purpose is 
to consider and make recommendations 
to the Board regarding the appointment 
of new directors. The Nomination 
Committee meets at least once a year 
or as required. 
Code compliance
As referred to on page 38 the Company 
granted an appointment share award 
to Allan Leighton on his appointment as 
Non-executive Chairman in 2011 and this 
currently remains unvested. Save in respect 
of this Appointment Share Award, the 
directors believe that the Company has 
complied throughout the year with the 
UK Corporate Governance Codes for 
2010 and 2012, as revised and adopted 
by the Financial Reporting Council. The 
Board confirms that it has established 
the necessary procedures designed to 
maintain a sound system of internal 
controls and that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced 
by the Company. 
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee comprises the two executive 
directors together with the following senior executives 
(who are deemed to be Persons Discharging Managerial 
Responsibility under the UK Listing Rules).
   Anthony Dixon  General Counsel 
and Company Secretary
   Shane McCarthy President, Pace International
   Tim O'Loughlin President, Pace Americas
In addition the following senior executives attend 
meetings of the Executive Committee on a regular basis: 
   Jon Cobb President, Software & Services
   Guy Sucharczuk President, Networks
   Phil Baldock Senior Vice President, Operations
   Jane Johnston Group Human Resources Director
_1_PIC_ar13_Middle_[MR].indd   27 20/03/2014   12:22:31 Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 28
Continued
Relations with shareholders
The Company has a well-developed 
investor relations programme led 
by the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer and managed 
by the Senior Vice President of Investor 
Relations and Strategy. Through this 
programme the Company maintains 
regular contact with major shareholders 
to communicate clearly the Group's 
objectives and monitors movements 
in significant shareholdings. 
Investor roadshows are now held each 
year in the USA as well as in the UK and 
formal investor presentations are made 
twice a year to groups of investment 
fund managers. The opportunity for 
shareholders to meet the Chairman or 
Senior Independent Director, separately 
from the executive directors, is available 
on request.
All financial and trading announcements 
are published immediately on the 
Company's website, including copies 
of the presentations made to analysts 
and investors. 
All shareholders are welcome to 
participate at the Company's Annual 
General Meeting when all the directors 
will normally be available to answer 
questions. The results of the Annual 
General Meeting resolutions, including 
details of votes cast/withheld, are 
published on the Company's website.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held on 24 April 2014  
at the offices of the Company at Salts Mill, 
Victoria Road, Saltaire, West Yorkshire 
BD18 3LF. Full details of the business to 
be transacted at the meeting will be set out 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting. 
Board and committee meetings attendance
Board
Audit & Risk
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Total meetings 10 5 2 1
Allan Leighton 10 1 2 1
Mike Pulli 10      
Roddy Murray 10      
John Grant 10 5 2 1
Mike Inglis* 3 2 1  
Pat Chapman-Pincher 10 5 2 1
Amanda Mesler 10 5 2 1
* Retired 24 April 2013.
Framework of Corporate Governance
_1_PIC_ar13_Middle_[MR].indd   28 20/03/2014   12:22:31