 The company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
As a result of the internal control procedures already in place at the beginning of the year and
reported in the previous annual report and accounts, and with the continued strengthening of controls,
the Company continues to fully adopt the Code.
A narrative statement on how the Company has applied the Principles and a statement explaining the
extent to which the provisions in the Code have been complied with appear below.
NARRATIVE STATEMENT
The Code establishes fourteen Principles of Good Governance which are split into the four areas
described below.
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which comprises five executive and three
non-executive directors.The Board considers that two non-executive directors, Mr A. C. D.
Ingleby-Mackenzie and Mr J. Mathew QC, are independent of management and Mr A. C. D.
Ingleby-Mackenzie is the senior non-executive director.The executive Chairman, Mr E. J. Olympitis,
is primarily responsible for the efficient working of the Board and the implementation of the overall
strategy and direction of the Group. He ensures that all directors receive sufficient relevant information
on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings.The Chief Executive, Mr C. C. N. Ng, is
responsible for the creation of the strategy as well as the day-to-day management of the business.All
directors are able to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties if necessary.
During the past year the Board has met formally on a quarterly basis and on other occasions as
required.The Board is responsible for overall company strategy, approval of acquisitions, disposals and
capital expenditure, treasury and consideration of significant financing matters. It monitors the
exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of individual trading subsidiaries,
their codes of conduct, their annual budgets, their progress towards achievement of those budgets and
their capital expenditure programmes.
All directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their
appointment.All directors, in accordance with the Code, submit themselves for re-election at least
every three years.
The Board has established three standing committees - the Audit Committee, Remuneration
Committee and Nominations Committee.These Committees operate within defined terms of
reference.
Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee (see page 10), under the chairmanship of Mr A. C. D.
Ingleby-Mackenzie, measures the performance of the executive directors and key members of senior
management as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and awards of
share options to the Board.The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors' Remuneration
and Interests is set out on page 10 and includes details of the directors' service contracts.
Relations with shareholders
There is a regular dialogue with institutional and individual shareholders.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
PACIFICMEDIAPLC
PAGE 7 The Company encourages shareholders to visit its web-site www.pacificmediaplc.com, with links to its
subsidiary undertakings and other entities in which the Company holds investments, in order to
receive up to date information about the Company.
All shareholders receive at least 20 working days' notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the
Chairman of the Company,Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available for
questions.
Accountability and Audit
Financial reporting
Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the Group are included in the
Chairman's statement and the Directors' Report on pages 3 to 6.The directors' responsibilities for the
financial statements are described on page 13.
Internal control
The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for the Group's system of internal control, which is
designed to safeguard the Group's assets against unauthorised use or disposal, ensure the maintenance of
proper accounting records and provide reliable financial information for use within the business and for
publication. In fulfilling these responsibilities, and on the basis that a system of internal control can
provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and
that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's
objectives, the Board has conducted for 2002 an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of
internal control which covered financial operational and compliance controls and risk management.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place
and there are procedures established to meet the requirements for the system of internal control that
are acceptable to the Board and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code produced by the Turnbull working party.This system of internal control was in place
for the whole of the year ended 31st December 2002 and steps are being taken to embed internal
controls and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of
improvement which come to management's and the Board's attention.The system continues to be
regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has considered the risks to the Group and the principal features of the Group's system of
internal control are as follows:
  an established management structure comprising the Board, with its committees and senior
managers.The management structure allows local management to report directly to the Group's
Board of Directors and encourages open dialogue;
  the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group will be
addressed at all meetings of the Board of Directors;
  the day-to-day supervision and involvement by the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive,
Executive Directors and Financial Director in the management of the Group;
  the Board reviews the monthly management accounts and receives regular reports from the Chief
Executive and Executive Directors; and
  the Board performs a detailed review of all major transactions, approves new investments and
regularly monitors existing investments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
PACIFICMEDIAPLC
PAGE 8 During the year the senior officer of TV Media Japan Inc. approved the renewal of a major airtime
contract on terms which were effectively twice the rate previously charged.This officer did not have
the authority to approve such a contract without agreement from the Chief Operating Officer or
Chief Executive and this agreement had not been granted.This matter is currently the subject of legal
action as detailed in the Notes to the Accounts.As a consequence of this breach of internal controls
the company has appointed two joint Chief Operating Officers of the TV Media Group to more
closely supervise the operations of that Group and ensure compliance with the internal control
procedures.
Although the Group does not currently have a formal internal audit function, the Board reviews the
need for this additional control on a regular basis, taking into account the size of the Group and the
nature of its operations.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which consists of Mr J. Mathew QC (chairman), Mr A. C. D.
Ingleby-Mackenzie and Mr E. J. Olympitis, has specific terms of reference which deal with its
authority and duties. It meets at least twice a year with the external auditors by invitation, to consider
reports relating to the monitoring of the adequacy of the Group's internal controls, to review the
annual financial statements, the accounting policies of the Company, its internal management and
matters arising from the external auditors' work.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee, comprises Mr A. C. D. Ingleby-Mackenzie, Mr J. Mathew QC and
Mr E. J. Olympitis (chairman), and discusses and agrees any proposed nomination to the Board, which
is then put forward for approval by the Board.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial
statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the next twelve months. For this reason the directors continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions
throughout the accounting period.Apart from the limited exceptions outlined below, the Company
complied throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2002 with the provisions as set out
in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
  A.6.1 - the non-executive directors are not appointed for specific terms;
 B.1.7 - four of the executive directors have service contracts which exceed one year;
 B.2.2 - the Executive Chairman is a member of the Remuneration Committee; and
 D.3.1 - the Executive Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
PACIFICMEDIAPLC
PAGE 9