 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
12 Parity Report & Accounts 2002
The maintenance of high standards of corporate governance remains a key priority for the Board.  Details of how the principles of corporate
governance are applied by the Company are set out below.
STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE
The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
GOING CONCERN
The Board confirms that after making enquiries and having regard to the new facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
THE WORKINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
THE BOARD
The Board consists of the Chairman, Bill Cockburn, the Chief Executive, Ian Miller, the Group Finance Director, Alison Leyshon and the three
other Non-executive Directors Billy Carbutt, John Maxwell and Alastair Macdonald. The Non-executive Directors are considered free from
any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Billy Carbutt acts as the Senior
Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board meets regularly to review strategic, operational and financial matters including proposed acquisitions and divestments. It approves
the annual and interim financial statements, the annual budget, significant transactions and major capital expenditure and reviews the
effectiveness of the system of internal control and the risks faced by the Group. The review covers all controls, including financial, operational
and compliance controls and risk management. All members of the Board are supplied in advance of meetings with appropriate information
covering the matters which are to be considered and have access to independent professional advice if required.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at intervals of not longer than three years as prescribed by the Combined Code. In 
accordance with the Company's articles, each year one third of the Board resigns and offers itself up for re-election by shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting.
A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and internal controls is set out on page 14.
COMMITTEES
The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the affairs of the Group.  With the exception of the Executive Committee, the
members of all Committees are Non-executive Directors.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee comprises the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Commercial Director and the Managing
Directors of the four business units, Business Solutions, Training, Resourcing Solutions and Parity Americas. The Committee meets regularly
to discuss strategic and operational issues and operates under powers delegated to it by the Board. Minutes of Executive 
Committee meetings are circulated to the Board and those issues outside the delegated levels of authority are referred to the Board for
decision as appropriate.   Parity Report & Accounts 2002     13
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee meets at least twice annually and comprises the Non-executive Directors under the Chairmanship of Billy Carbutt. The
Committee's terms of reference include the review of the Interim and Annual Accounts before their submission to the Board and the
monitoring of the system of internal financial controls to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. Its
responsibilities in respect of internal controls extend to directing and reviewing the work of Internal Audit.  
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.  It discusses the nature and scope
of the statutory audit with the external auditors and provides a forum for reporting by the external auditors of the Group.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the Executive Directors at the invitation of the Committee. The external auditors meet separately
with the Audit Committee on request, without the presence of the Executive Directors to ensure open communication. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors and during the year was chaired by Henry Angest until his resignation
on 30 November 2002, when Alastair Macdonald was appointed Chairman. The Committee meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing
the emoluments of the Executive Directors, the Group's remuneration policy and its pension arrangements and for making recommendations
thereon to the Board. The Committee consults the Chief Executive about its proposals and has access to external advisors to assist it with
ensuring that salary and benefit packages are competitive and appropriate.
Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 15 to 22.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Bill Cockburn and comprises the other Non-executive Directors. It is responsible for proposing
candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.  Where necessary, recruitment consultants
are used to assist the process.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Private and institutional shareholders are given an opportunity to communicate directly with the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Regular dialogue is also maintained with institutional shareholders through presentations and meetings after the announcement of the
Group's full year and half year results.
All members of the Board usually attend the Annual General Meeting. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees will normally be available to answer shareholders' questions at that meeting. Notice of the Meeting is posted to shareholders
with the Report and Accounts not fewer than 20 working days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting. The package sent to
shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at the Annual General Meeting, where a separate resolution is proposed for
each substantive matter. The Group's Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report and other Stock Exchange announcements are published
on the Group's website at www.parity.net.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and is assisted in this respect
by the Audit Committee. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Directors confirm that they have reviewed
the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls during the year.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The Directors are satisfied that it meets the requirements of the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
14 Parity Report & Accounts 2002
The management of each business is responsible for establishing detailed controls which are embedded within operational and financial
procedures in order to manage business risks on a day-to-day basis.  Changes in key business objectives which may impact on the risk profile
of the Group and require changes to existing controls and procedures are monitored by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director
through the established framework of Executive Committee meetings, monthly reviews with the Managing Directors of each of the business
units and quarterly business review meetings with the management teams of each business unit.
The findings and recommendations of internal audit work carried out during the 2002 financial year have been reported to the Audit
Committee and a summary of the findings has been presented to the Board. The internal audit programme focuses on the key risks inherent
in the businesses and the system of control necessary to manage such risks.
RECOMMENDATIONS MADE BY THE HIGGS AND SMITH REPORTS
The Board has considered the Corporate Governance recommendations set out in the Higgs and Smith reports published in January 2003.
Whilst compliance with the proposed guidance is not required until 2004, the Board is comfortable that there are currently no significant
areas of non-compliance which undermine effective corporate governance, for a group of Parity's size and complexity.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors are required by Company law to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the results for the year.
In preparing the accounts the Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently, make reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.  It is the responsibility of the
Directors to prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring proper procedures exist for the maintenance of adequate accounting records.  They are also
responsible for the Group's system of internal financial controls and for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.