 Corporate governance
Park Plaza Hotels' pursuit of excellence extends 
to corporate governance as well as hospitality. 
For example, as a closed-ended investment 
company registered in Guernsey, the Company 
is eligible for exemption from the requirements 
of the Combined Code (the Code ) issued 
by the United Kingdom Listing Authority. 
Nevertheless, we voluntarily comply with the 
main requirements of Code, which sets out 
principles of good governance and a code of 
best practice. We do this through a framework 
for corporate governance which the Directors 
believe is suitable for an investment company 
of our size and business activities. 
Consequently, the Board considers that the Company 
has complied with the provisions contained in Section 1 
of the Code throughout this accounting period. 
The Code recommends that the Board of Directors of 
a listed company should include a balance of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors (and in particular Non-
Executive Directors) such that no individual or group of 
individuals can dominate the Board's decision making. 
The Combined Code also recommends that the 
Chairman should, on appointment, be independent.
The Board
The Company currently has six Directors, four of whom are 
Non-Executives (including the Chairman Eli Papouchado). 
As recommended by the Combined Code, three of the 
Directors - Elisha Flax, Kevin McAuliffe and Nigel Jones 
- are regarded by the Company as being independent 
of management and free from any business or other 
relationship that could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement. The Company's 
Chairman, Eli Papouchado, is the founder of the Red Sea 
Group, the Company's largest shareholder and is not 
therefore independent of the Company.
High standards,  
rigorously applied
The Board has responsibility for the Group's strategic 
and financial policies and meets regularly.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and are able to gain access to 
external independent advice, should they wish to do so.
The Board maintains an appropriate balance of Executive 
and Non-Executive members, all of whom receive regular 
and timely information concerning the activities of the 
Group. This information enables the Board to exercise 
its responsibilities and control functions in a proper and 
effective manner.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the 
Company. The Directors believe that any changes to the 
Board's composition can be managed without undue 
disruption. With any new Director appointed to the 
Board, consideration will be given as to whether an 
induction process is appropriate.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the Notice 
and Agenda which are formally circulated to the Board 
in advance of the Meeting as part of the Board Papers. 
Directors may request any agenda items to be added 
that they consider appropriate for Board discussion. 
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the 
Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest 
prior to Board discussion.
To date, the Board has not considered it necessary 
to have formal strategy sessions. This is because the 
investment strategy, which is set out in the Company's 
prospectus, is reviewed regularly.
The primary focus at Board Meetings is a review of 
investment performance and associated matters. 
These include gearing and asset allocation as well as 
marketing, investor relations, risk management, general 
administration and compliance, peer group information 
and industry issues.
The Board evaluates its performance and considers the 
tenure of each Director on an annual basis. The Board 
believes that the current mix of skills, experience, ages and 
length of service are appropriate to the requirements of 
the Company.
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007   21   Directors' duties 
The Directors have adopted a set of reserved powers, 
which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail 
its major duties. These duties cover the following areas 
of responsibility:
  statutory obligations and public disclosure
  strategic matters and financial reporting
  risk assessment and management, including 
reporting, monitoring, governance and control
  other matters having material effects on the Company
The Directors have adopted these reserved powers of the 
Board to demonstrate the seriousness with which the 
Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities. These powers 
also enable ongoing means of measuring and monitoring 
the effectiveness of Board actions.
Directors' responsibilities
The Directors are required to prepare the Directors' 
Report and the financial statements for each financial 
year. These must give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year 
and of the profit or loss for that year. In preparing annual 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and apply them 
consistently
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent
  state whether applicable accounting standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements 
  prepare the financial statements on the going-concern 
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records which disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with The Companies (Guernsey) Law, 1994. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company. 
This involves taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice for corporate 
governance, the Group has established Committees 
to act on its behalf in overseeing and dealing with audit, 
remuneration, nominations, investment and operations.
The Audit Committee comprises Kevin McAuliffe 
(Chairman), Elisha Flax and Nigel Jones and meets at 
least three times a year. The Committee assists the Board 
in observing its responsibility for ensuring that the 
Group's financial systems provide accurate and up-to-
date information on its financial position and that the 
published financial statements represent a true and fair 
reflection of this position. The Committee also assists the 
Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, 
internal financial controls and compliance procedures are 
in place. The Audit Committee receives information from 
the Company Secretary and from the external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Kevin 
McAuliffe (Chairman) and Elisha Flax. The Committee 
advises the Board on an overall remuneration policy and 
meets at least twice a year. It also determines, on behalf 
of the Board, and with the benefit of advice from external 
consultants, the remuneration packages of the Executive 
Directors. The Board determines the remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee comprises Elisha Flax 
(Chairman), Nigel Jones and Kevin McAuliffe. Whenever 
possible, all Non-Executive Directors attend its meetings 
as well. The Committee carries out the selection process 
for the appointment of candidates to the Board and 
propose names for approval by the full Board.
The Investment Committee comprises Eli Papouchado 
(Chairman), Boris Ivesha, Chen Moravsky and Elisha Flax. 
The Committee assesses and approves new projects in 
accordance with an agreed approval process. It is also 
responsible for carrying out post-investment appraisals.
The Operational Committee comprises Eli Papouchado 
(Chairman), Boris Ivesha, Chen Moravsky and Elisha 
Flax. It develops and implements the overall operations 
strategy. The Committee also determines the framework 
of the Operational Board and monitors its activities.
Corporate governance
continued
22   Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007 Internal controls
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company's 
system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Company. This process has 
been in place for the period under review and up to the 
date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts. 
The Board reviews this process, ensuring it accords with 
appropriate corporate governance codes. On at least an 
annual basis, the Directors conduct a review of the 
Company's system of internal control. This covers all 
controls, including financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control. In particular, it has reviewed and 
updated the process for identifying and evaluating the 
significant risks affecting the Company and the policies 
by which these risks are managed.
Corporate responsibility
The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory 
changes and takes appropriate action.
On an annual basis, the Chairman assesses the 
performance of each Director. This assessment includes 
a review of Board and Committee meeting attendance.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, and given the nature of the 
Company and its investments, the Directors are satisfied 
that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going-
concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements. 
After due consideration, the Directors consider that the 
Company is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
Relations with shareholders
Board members will be available to respond to 
shareholders' questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Major shareholders are contacted directly on a regular 
basis.
The Company formally reports once a year to 
shareholders, who receive a proxy voting card with the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements. Additionally, 
current information is provided to shareholders on an 
ongoing basis through the Company website. The 
Registrar monitors the voting of the shareholders and 
proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are 
cast at the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders may 
contact the Directors via the Company Secretary.
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007   23  