 30 park plaza Hotels a nnual Report 2008
St a tement  
o F diReCto RS' 
ReSpon SiBiLitie S
Co Rpo Ra te  
Gove Rnan Ce
t he d irectors are required to prepare the d irectors' Report and the 
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and 
of the profit or loss for that year. in preparing those financial statements, 
the d irectors are required to:
-  select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently
-  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
-  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements
-  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it  
is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business
t he d irectors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with t he 
Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008. t hey are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
So far as each of the d irectors is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group's auditor is unaware, and each  
has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a d irector to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Group's auditor is aware of that information.
introdu Ction
a s a closed-ended investment company registered in Guernsey, the 
Company is eligible for exemption from the requirements of the 
Combined Code (the Code ) issued by the u K Listing authority. t he 
Board has however put in place a framework for corporate governance 
which it believes is suitable for an investment company and which 
enables the Company to voluntarily comply with the main requirements 
of the Code, which sets out principles of good governance and a code  
of best practice.
t he d irectors are committed to maintaining a high standard of 
corporate governance and intend to comply with those aspects of the 
Code which they consider appropriate, taking into account the size of  
the Company and the nature of its business.
t he Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions 
contained in Section 1 of the Code throughout this accounting period. 
t he Code recommends that the Board of d irectors of a listed company 
should include a balance of executive and n on-executive d irectors (and 
in particular n on-e xecutive d irectors) such that no individual or group 
of individuals can dominate the Board's decision making. t he Combined 
Code also recommends that the Chairman should, on appointment,  
be independent.
t he Bo Ard
t he Company currently has six d irectors, four of whom are n on-
e xecutives (including the Chairman eli papouchado). a s recommended by 
the Combined Code, three of the d irectors, elisha Flax, Kevin mcauliffe 
and n igel jones are regarded by the Company as being independent of 
management and free from any business or other relationship that could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. t he 
Company's Chairman, eli papouchado, is the founder of the Red Sea 
Group (of which euro Sea, the Company's largest Shareholder, is a part) 
and is not therefore independent of the Company.
t he Board has responsibility for the Group's strategic and financial 
policies and meets regularly.
all the d irectors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and are able to gain access to external independent advice 
should they wish to do so.
an appropriate balance of executive and n on-executive members of  
the Board is maintained and the Board is to be supplied with regular  
and timely information concerning the activities of the Group in order  
to enable it to exercise its responsibilities and control functions in  
a proper and effective manner.
t he Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company, and the 
d irectors believe that any changes to the Board's composition can be 
managed without undue disruption. w ith any new d irector appointment 
to the Board, consideration will be given as to whether an induction 
process is appropriate.
t he Board considers agenda items laid out in the n otice and agenda 
which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of the meeting 
as part of the Board papers and therefore d irectors may request any 
agenda items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board 
discussion. additionally, each d irector is required to inform the Board  
of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
t he Board has not currently considered it necessary to have formal 
strategy sessions, as the investment strategy, which is set out in the 
Company's prospectus, is reviewed regularly. Governance and Board
park plaza Hotels a nnual Report 2008 31 
t he primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment 
performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, 
as well as marketing/investor relations, risk management, general 
administration and compliance, peer group information and  
industry issues.
t he Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure 
of each d irector on an annual basis, and believes that the mix of 
skills, experience, ages and length of service are appropriate to the 
requirements of the Company.
d ire Ctor's d uties 
t he d irectors have adopted a set of reserved powers, which establish the 
key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties. t hese duties cover 
the following areas of responsibility:
-  statutory obligations and public disclosure
- strategic matters and financial reporting
-  oversight of management and personnel matters
-  risk assessment and management, including reporting, monitoring, 
governance and control
-  other matters having material effects on the Company
t hese reserved powers of the Board have been adopted by the d irectors 
to clearly demonstrate the seriousness with which the Board takes its 
fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and 
monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
BoA rd Committees
in accordance with best practice for corporate governance, the Group 
has established, amongst other Committees, the following Committees 
in order to carry out work on behalf of the Board: an audit Committee, 
a Remuneration Committee, a n ominations Committee, an investment 
Committee and an o perational Committee.
Audit Committee
an audit Committee has been established and comprises Kevin 
mcauliffe (Chairman), elisha Flax and n igel jones and meets at least 
three times a year. t he audit Committee assists the Board in observing 
its responsibility for ensuring that the Group's financial systems provide 
accurate and up-to-date information on its financial position and that 
the published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection 
of this position. it also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate 
accounting policies, internal financial controls and compliance 
procedures are in place. t he audit Committee receives information  
from the Company Secretary and from the external auditors.
r emuneration Committee
a Remuneration Committee has been established and comprises Kevin 
mcauliffe (Chairman) and elisha Flax. t he Remuneration Committee 
advises the Board on an overall remuneration policy and meets at least 
twice a year. t he Remuneration Committee also determine, on behalf of 
the Board, and with the benefit of advice from external consultants, the 
remuneration packages of the e xecutive d irectors. t he Board determines 
the remuneration of the n on-e xecutive d irectors.
n ominations Committee
a n ominations Committee has been established and comprises elisha 
Flax (Chairman), n igel jones and Kevin mcauliffe. w henever possible, all 
n on-e xecutive d irectors will be present. t he n ominations Committee 
carries out the selection process for the appointment of candidates to 
the Board and propose names for approval by the full Board.
investment Committee
an investment Committee has been established and comprises eli 
papouchado (Chairman), Boris ivesha, Chen moravsky and elisha Flax. 
t he investment Committee assesses and approves new projects in 
accordance with an agreed approval process. t he investment Committee 
is also responsible for carrying out post-investment appraisals.
o perational Committee
an o perational Committee has been established and comprises  
eli papouchado (Chairman), Boris ivesha, Chen moravsky and elisha 
Flax. t he o perational Committee develops and implements the overall 
operations strategy. t he o perational Committee also determines  
the framework of the o perational Board and monitors its activities.
intern Al Controls
t he Board is ultimately responsible for the Company's system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. t he Board confirms that 
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by the Company. t his process has been in 
place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of this 
annual Report and accounts, and is reviewed by the Board and accords 
with appropriate corporate governance codes. t he d irectors conduct 
at least annually a review of the Company's system of internal control, 
covering all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and 
risk management. t he Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control. in particular, it has reviewed and updated the process 
for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company  
and the policies by which these risks are managed.
CorP or Ate res Ponsi Bility t he Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory changes and 
takes appropriate action.
o n an annual basis the Chairman assesses the performance of  
each d irector that includes a review of Board and Committee  
meeting attendance.
g oing Con Cern
after making enquiries, and given the nature of the Company and its 
investments, the d irectors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements, 
and, after due consideration, the d irectors consider that the Company  
is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
r el Ations with sh Areholders
Board members will be available to respond to shareholders' questions 
at the annual General meeting.
major shareholders are contacted directly on a regular basis.
t he Company reports formally to Shareholders once a year and a 
proxy voting card is sent to shareholders with the annual Report and 
financial statements. a dditionally, current information is provided to 
shareholders on an ongoing basis through the Company website. t he 
Registrar monitors the voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken 
into consideration when votes are cast at the annual General meeting. 
Shareholders may contact the d irectors via the Company Secretary.