 24 Parkwood Holdings plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Board Committees
The Board has established Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees .  
The Audit Committee, which is chaired 
by Sarah Kling, is formally constituted 
with written terms of reference and 
comprises the non executive directors .  The 
executive directors are not members of the 
Committee but may be invited to attend 
the Committee's meetings .  The external 
auditors also attend for part or the whole 
of each meeting and have direct access to 
the non executive directors for independent 
discussions without the presence of 
executive directors .
The Audit Committee may examine any 
matters relating to the financial affairs of 
the Group .  This includes reviews of the 
annual accounts and announcements, 
internal control procedures, internal audit 
reports, accounting policies, compliance 
with accounting standards, and such other 
related functions as the Board may require .  
The Remuneration Committee determines 
the terms and conditions (including annual 
remuneration and incentive awards) of 
the executive directors and other senior 
executives within the Group .  Membership 
of the Committee consists of the non 
executive directors with Sarah Kling as 
Chairman .  
The Nominations Committee comprises the 
Executive Chairman and the non executive 
directors and is responsible for identifying 
and nominating candidates to fill Board 
vacancies as and when they arise .  Meetings 
are held annually to evaluate the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience on the 
Board .  The Nominations Committee also 
met on two further occasions during 2009 
in connection with the appointment of 
the Group Finance Director .  Candidates 
for the position of Group Finance Director 
were sought by advertisement in a national 
newspaper .
The terms and conditions of all three 
committees are available on request from 
the Company's registered office and are 
displayed on the Group's website at www .
parkwood-holdings .co .uk .
Internal Control
The Board has established a Risk 
Management Committee comprising 
the Group Finance Director and senior 
managers from across the Group .  The 
Risk Management Committee meets to 
identify and prioritise areas of risk and 
is responsible for disseminating risk 
management procedures to each of the 
Group's companies . Risks are monitored 
and reported to the PMB for action as 
appropriate .
The Board, through the Audit Committee, 
reviews the procedures necessary to 
implement the guidance, Internal Control: 
Guidance for Directors on the Combined 
Code  .  Assessment of internal control is 
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords 
with the Internal Control Guidance for 
Directors in the Code .
The Audit Committee has, on behalf of 
the Board, reviewed the operation and 
effectiveness of the Group's system of 
internal control for the financial year and 
the period up to the date of approval of 
the financial statements .  The system of 
internal financial controls is designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable, but 
not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss .  
The key elements of the internal control 
system are as follows:
Management Structure
The Group continued to operate through 
the Trading Group which comprised a 
number of clearly defined activities .  Each 
division within the Trading Group has 
defined targets and is accountable to 
the Board .  During 2009 the Glendale 
division operated as six separately managed 
subsidiary companies, each with its own 
Managing Director and executive directors . 
Towards the end of 2009, a decision was 
reached to consolidate the Glendale division 
into one group comprising four operating 
segments in order to achieve management 
efficiency and cost savings across the 
division . 
Submission of Bids, Tenders and Prices
Tender documents are reviewed by 
executive management prior to submission 
and formal sign-off processes and authority 
levels are followed .  Pricing procedures are 
subject to a process of continuous review . 
Contract Review
Contract documents are reviewed prior 
to signature by executive management 
and external legal advisors, if appropriate 
to ensure that terms and conditions are 
acceptable to the Group .
Significant Commitments of the Chairman
As in the prior year, the Chairman has no 
other significant commitments .
Planning 
Each division prepares a three year strategic 
business plan in line with the Group's 
planning cycle .  A new strategic business 
plan will be prepared by each division for 
the period 2011-2013 in summer 2010 .  
The Plans are discussed and agreed with the 
executive directors of the Group .
Budgeting
Each division, subsidiary trading activity, 
contract and cost centre has an annual 
budget agreed between the budget 
holder and divisional or Group executive 
directors .  Performance against budget is 
regularly reviewed and future performance 
re-forecast as appropriate .
Capital Expenditure
The Group has a clearly defined framework 
for controlling the approval of capital 
expenditure .  Appropriate authorisation 
levels have been established, requiring the 
approval of divisional or Group executive 
directors .  Major expenditure is subject to 
approval by the Group Board .
Financial Reporting Process
The Group has in place internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to the 
Group's financial reporting process and the 
Group's process for preparation of
consolidated accounts . Parkwood Holdings plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 www .parkwood-holdings .co .uk
A summary of the process the Board and 
its Committees apply in reviewing the 
effectiveness of the system of internal 
control is set out as follows:
Audit Committee
During the year, the Audit Committee:
a . met three times, with the external 
auditors attending by invitation;
b . made recommendations as to the 
future scope, authority and resources of 
internal audit; and
c . considered the suitability of the Group's 
accounting policies and financial 
reporting and matters arising from the 
external auditor's work .
Internal Audit
In accordance with the Combined Code, the 
Board considered the need for an internal 
audit function and ensured appropriate 
plans were in place, commensurate with 
the size and complexity of the Group .  No 
materially adverse control failures were 
identified by the internal audit function 
during the year .  The Board is considering 
increasing the resource allocated to the 
internal audit function during 2010 .
The chair of the Audit Committee 
(Sarah Kling) is a former partner with 
accountants KPMG .  The Board is provided 
with recommendations from the Audit 
Committee on a regular basis .  The Board 
also reviews the key risks of the Group's 
businesses, including reports from the Risk 
Management Committee, and evaluates 
the ability of existing internal controls to 
manage these risks .  
External Auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
the development, implementation and 
monitoring of the Group's policy on 
external audit .  The Committee considered 
the audit plan and met with the external 
auditors independently of management .  
A review of the audit process is carried 
out both during and after the audit .  The 
Committee monitors the nature and cost 
of non-audit services being provided to 
the Group in order to ensure that auditor 
independence is not impaired .  Non-audit 
services provided by the auditors during the 
year comprised tax compliance and advisory 
work and amounted to  168,000 (2008: 
 79,000) .
Whistle Blowing 
Procedures
The Group has a written procedure whereby 
employees who wish to communicate with 
senior management or the non executive 
directors outside the normal lines of 
reporting are able to do so .  This enables 
employees to direct queries, grievances 
or any matters that they feel cannot be 
reported through line management to an 
appropriate senior manager .  In the case of 
matters affecting the executive directors, a 
line of communication is established to the 
senior independent non executive director .
Relations with 
Shareholders
Parkwood recognises the interest of 
shareholders in the Group's strategy and 
performance, Board membership and the 
quality of management .  Shareholders are 
kept up to date with the latest news and 
Company announcements on the Group's 
web site (www .parkwood-holdings .co .uk) .
The AGM is used to communicate with 
shareholders and they are encouraged 
to participate .  The Chairpersons of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations  
Committees are available at the meeting to 
answer questions .  Separate resolutions are 
proposed on each issue so that they can be 
given proper consideration .  All proxy votes 
are counted and the number lodged on each 
resolution is reported after it has been dealt 
with by a show of hands .
Accountability  
and Audit
The Board presents a balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Group's 
position and prospects in all price-
sensitive announcements as well as in the 
information presented to fulfil statutory 
and regulatory requirements .