 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business review
Governance
Financial statements
Other information
Report of the Audit Committee 
 
99
Purpose 
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering how it should  
apply the required financial reporting and internal control 
principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship 
with the Company's joint auditors, BDO LLP and BDO Limited.  
Membership 
The Board has done this by appointing an Audit Committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee are: 
> Stephen Box (Chairman) 
> Tim Bristow 
> Lewis Moonie 
The Code recommends that a minimum of three 
Independent Directors (excluding the Chairman of the 
Board) should serve on the Audit Committee and therefore 
the Company is compliant with this recommendation. 
Stephen Box has recent and relevant financial experience.  
Responsibilities 
The Audit Committee has adopted terms of reference, 
approved by the Board that are available on the Company's 
website: www.partygaming.com/investor/audit_terms.html. 
In summary the main responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are: 
> to consider and make recommendations to the Board as 
regards the appointment and re-appointment of the head 
of the internal audit function and also the external auditors; 
> to recommend the audit fee to the Board and to develop 
and recommend to the Board the Company's policy in 
relation to the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor; 
> to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company and any formal announcements relating to the 
Company's financial performance and to review, and 
challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements  
of management in relation to the half-year and annual 
financial statements before submission to the Board; 
> to meet with the external auditors post-audit at the 
reporting stage to discuss the audit, including problems 
and reservations arising from the audit, and any matters 
the auditor may wish to discuss (in the absence of 
management, where necessary); 
> to make recommendations to the Board concerning any 
proposed, new or amended accounting policy; 
> to monitor and review the internal audit programme  
and its effectiveness;  
> to ensure co-ordination between the officers responsible 
for internal audit and the external auditors, and that the 
internal audit function is adequately resourced and has 
appropriate standing within the Company; 
> to consider any major audit recommendations and to 
consider the major findings of internal investigations and 
management's response (in the absence of management, 
where necessary); and 
> to monitor and review the Company's systems for internal 
financial control, financial reporting, internal control and 
risk management. 
Business during the year 
During the year to 31 December 2009, the Audit Committee 
met four times to deal with the following business: 
March:  
Review the 2008 Annual Report 
Review the external auditors' report and the required letter of 
representation from the Company 
Consider the non-audit services provided by the external 
auditors 
Consider whether to recommend the re-appointment of the 
external auditors at the 2009 AGM 
Review the internal audit status report 
Consider the disclosure implications of the Company's 
discussions with the USAO 
June:  
Review the consolidated risk report 
Review the latest internal audit status report 
Consider and recommend the adoption of an updated 
delegation of authority 
Review the external auditors' management letter arising from 
the audit of the 2008 annual results 
Receive a report from the external auditors on their plans for 
auditing the 2009 financial results and confirmation of their 
continuing independence 
Agree the updated external auditors' engagement letter 
Consider the non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors 
Review a pre-close trading update statement 
August:  
Review the external auditors' interim review relating to the 
2009 interim results and the required letter of representation 
from PartyGaming 
Review the 2009 interim results 
Consider the non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors 
Review the internal audit status report 
December: 
Review taxation strategy 
Review the consolidated risk report 
Review the latest internal audit status report 
Review the follow-up in respect of the management letter 
arising from the audit of the 2008 annual results 
Approve the 2010 internal audit plan and budget 
Review an updated report from the external auditors on their 
plans for auditing the 2009 financial results 
Review the non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors 
Review the Committee's work in 2009 and its terms 
of reference 
  PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009
Report of the Audit Committee  
 
 
100 
At these meetings, members met with management and  
with the internal and external auditors. The Audit Committee 
members also met privately with the external auditors  
and separately with the internal audit function, without 
management representatives present.  
Through these meetings and review process the Audit 
Committee has satisfied itself that proper and satisfactory 
internal control systems remain in place to identify and 
contain business risks and that the integrity of the Company's 
financial reporting is sound. In doing so the Audit Committee 
continues to exercise its authority to seek any information it 
requires from any employee of the Company. 
In 2010, the Audit Committee has met once to review and 
recommend the approval of the 2009 Annual Report. 
Risk management and effective internal controls 
The section,  Our risks' on pages 71 to 72 of the Annual Report 
sets out the main risks impacting the Group's business. 
PartyGaming maintains a robust system of internal control for 
the purpose of safeguarding the investment of Shareholders 
in the Company and the Group's assets. At least annually the 
Board conducts a review of the effectiveness of the Group's 
system of internal controls, covering all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management systems. PartyGaming's system of 
internal control reduces the probability that business risks 
might impede the Company in achieving its objectives, but  
it cannot eliminate these risks and can therefore provide  
only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Group has an internal audit department, which also 
carries out the Company's risk management monitoring. 
During the year, management identified the risks attaching 
to the business and, on an ongoing basis, efforts are being 
taken to mitigate these risks. Throughout the year 
PartyGaming's internal auditors performed internal audits of 
offices and departments within the business to assess whether 
adequate internal controls are in place to protect the Group, 
its employees and Shareholders. The internal audit reports are 
presented to the Audit Committee and the Head of Internal 
Audit meets regularly with the Audit Committee as well as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, to whom he has  
direct access. 
In accordance with the guidance contained in the  
Turnbull Report, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit 
Committee, has completed its annual review of the 
effectiveness of the internal system of control, and is satisfied 
that it is in accordance with that guidance. 
The Group continues to adopt and publicise a formal 
 whistleblowing' procedure by which employees can, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting or other matters. This procedure 
is set out in the Group's employee handbooks and has been 
reviewed by both the Audit and Ethics Committees. 
Both Committees are satisfied that arrangements are in 
place for the proportionate and independent investigation 
of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action. 
 
External Auditors 
During the year ended 31 December 2009, BDO LLP was 
appointed under an engagement letter to act as auditors 
to enable the Company to meet its obligations to prepare 
financial statements in accordance with the Listing Rules. 
For the purposes of filing the Company's financial statements 
in Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been appointed 
to act as joint auditors to allow an audit report to be issued 
under Section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) 
Act 1999. 
In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee made 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditors, approved their remuneration (both subject 
to Shareholder approval) and also approved their terms of 
engagement. In the current year the Audit Committee also 
established a revised policy regarding the appointment of 
auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group, over 
and above the external audit and will keep this under 
ongoing review. This policy dictates that in the Company's 
financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided 
by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due 
diligence for acquisitions and other specific matters noted 
below, should not exceed the total fees for audit services 
they provide. In the year ended 31 December 2009, the 
proportion of total non-audit fees to total audit fees paid to 
the external auditors was 0.005:1.0. 
In addition to their statutory duties, BDO LLP is also employed 
where, as a result of their position as auditors or for their 
specific expertise, they either must, or the Audit Committee 
accepts they are best placed to, perform the work in 
question. This is primarily work in relation to matters such as 
shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory filings 
and certain business acquisitions and disposals. In such 
circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review 
the specific service requirements and consider any impact 
on objectivity and independence of the auditors and any 
appropriate safeguards to this. As such the Audit Committee 
believes it appropriate for these non-audit services to be 
excluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above. In the year ended 
31 December 2009 the total fees paid to the external auditors 
in respect of due diligence for acquisitions was $1.05 million. 
The Audit Committee recommends and the Board agrees 
with the re-appointment of BDO LLP and BDO Limited as 
auditors and therefore an ordinary resolution to this effect  
is being proposed at the AGM (resolution 3), together with  
an ordinary resolution authorising the Directors to set the 
auditors' remuneration (resolution 4). 
Stephen Box 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
4 March 2010 