 25
The logical link to your customers PD Ports plc
Corporate Governance Report
Annual Report Period ended 31 March 2005
Introduction
The Board places significant importance on the establishment and continued achievement of high standards of corporate governance.
The Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 (the  Combined Code') applied formally to the Group only from
the date of the Company' s admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in December 2004, but the Group has endeavoured
to comply with its principles and provisions from the date of its AIM listing in July 2004. Consequently, the references to the  period' in this
Corporate Governance report relate to the dates between the AIM listing on 12 July 2004 and the year end on 31 March 2005.
The Board
During the period, the Board comprised two executive directors, the Chairman and three non-executive directors. Details of the directors
are set out on pages 20 to 21. The composition of the Board is designed to provide an appropriate balance of executive, financial and
commercial experiences and skills, and will be regularly reviewed. The Board currently meets eleven times a year, at a variety of Group
locations, with additional meetings held as required. All directors attended all meetings held in the period, other than Alan Kelsey who
did not attend the Board Meeting held on 29 November 2004. It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that the
directors receive all of the information necessary for the effective performance of their duties. In the furtherance of their duties, the
directors have access to the advice and service of the Company Secretary and are permitted to take independent professional advice
where necessary and to undertake any training considered appropriate, both at the Company' s expense. 
The Chairman, David Harding, met the independence criteria required by paragraph A.3.1 of the Combined Code on appointment. 
The Chairman also has two other non-executive directorships, details of which are shown on page 20. The Chairman is responsible for the
running of the Board. He has instigated an initial performance appraisal of the individual directors, consisting of self-assessment and face
to face meetings, which will be expanded into a more formal evaluation procedure of the Board, its committees and the directors in the
course of the next financial year.
The executive directors are Graham Roberts and Paul Daffern. The Board considers the independent non-executive directors to be
James Sutcliffe and Alan Kelsey, with the latter acting as the senior independent director. James Wilding is not considered to be
independent as he is an employee of the Group' s major shareholder, Nikko Principal Investments Limited. 
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision. These include matters relating to Group strategy,
structure and capital, financial reporting and senior appointments within the Group.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining and directing the Group' s corporate strategy. This is achieved through consideration
and approval of the annual business plan and budget, and through the monitoring and discussion of financial results and corporate
matters at regular board meetings. The delivery of the corporate strategy is the responsibility of the executive directors who, with the
Executive Management T eam, run the Group on a day to day basis. 
Board Committees
The following Board Committees were established in July 2004 under specific terms of reference:
1. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises James Wilding (Chairman), James Sutcliffe and Alan Kelsey. The Committee' s duties include the review
of financial reporting, internal controls and risk management systems, whistle blowing, internal audit and the appointment and removal
of external auditors. The Committee will normally meet a minimum of three times annually, and had two meetings during the period.
2. Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Alan Kelsey (Chairman), David Harding and James Sutcliffe. The Committee determines the
Group' s remuneration policy including any performance related bonus schemes, share incentive plans and pension arrangements. The
Committee will normally meet a minimum of twice annually, and had two meetings during the period.
3. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises James Sutcliffe (Chairman), David Harding, Alan Kelsey and James Wilding. The Nomination
Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, establishing appropriate succession plans for
the executive directors and other senior executives in the Group and for the nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies where
required. The Committee will normally meet a minimum of twice annually, and had one meeting during the period.
All of the Committee members attended all meetings during the period.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on request and are published on the Group' s website.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with its shareholders. The executive directors give regular
presentations to institutional investors and potential investors and attend meetings with them outside of close periods. Access to the
Chairman and senior independent non-executive director is also offered to major shareholders to ensure that channels are available for
them to raise any concerns directly. The Group engages a firm of financial PR consultants to provide another channel of communication
to shareholders, potential investors and analysts.
The Company engages with its smaller shareholders through the investor relations section of its website and through the Annual General
Meeting. T o this end, all directors will be available to answer questions at this forum. 26
The logical link to your customers PD Ports plc
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
Annual Report Period ended 31 March 2005
Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group' s systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit Committee,
which was established on flotation, has been delegated the responsibility for conducting this review. An assessment of all of the major
risks facing the Group and its businesses was undertaken during the period, together with an assessment of all of the key controls
designed to manage risk. However, the Board recognise that an effective system of internal controls can only reduce and not eliminate
risks in achieving business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group' s systems of internal control include regular meetings of Group and divisional management to discuss operational, strategic
and risk issues, supplemented by reviews of divisional finance issues hosted by the Group Finance Director. Monthly financial reporting is
supplemented by regular reforecasting, the results of which are compared with the previously approved detailed budget. In addition, all
significant projects are fully financially appraised prior to approval.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by James Wilding, a qualified chartered accountant. This appointment does not comply with the
requirement of provision C.3.1 of the Combined Code that all members of the Audit Committee be independent non-executive
directors. The Board feels that he has the most appropriate skills and experience to perform this role, and that his effectiveness is not
compromised by his being an employee of the Company' s major shareholder.
During the period, the Audit Committee has reviewed and approved the Group' s interim and third quarter results announcements on
behalf of the Board and has established a limit for the maximum value of fees for non-audit work that may be paid to the auditors without
its prior approval. It has also reviewed the independence of the auditors. The Audit Committee has considered the requirement for an
internal audit function and has recommended to the Board that such a function be established. This is expected to be fully operational
during the next financial year.
Going Concern
The Board has considered the applicability of the going concern basis in the preparation of these financial statements. This included the
review of internal budgets and projections of financial results and compliance with securitisation and banking covenants. The directors
consequently have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
Compliance Statement
With the exception of the provisions set out below, the Group has, during the period, been in compliance with the Combined Code.
Audit Committee and auditors: C.3.1
James Wilding, a non-executive director who is not independent, is a member and chairman of the Audit Committee. The Combined
Code states that all members of the Audit Committee should be independent. The Board feels that he has the most appropriate skills
and experience to perform this role, and that his effectiveness is not compromised by his being an employee of the Company' s 
major shareholder.
By order of the Board
Paul Daffern
Company Secretary
10 June 2005