 8 Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance statement
Penna Consulting Plc
Annual Report 2004
The Group is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority. The Board is accountable to the
Company's shareholders for corporate governance and confirms that there 
is a process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant
risks to the achievement of the Group's strategic objectives on an ongoing 
basis. The process has been in place throughout the year. This statement
describes how the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied to 
the Company and the Company's compliance throughout the year with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
We have a policy of dividing responsibilities for the Board and running the
Company's business by appointing a Chairman, a senior independent director
and a Chief Executive. The Chief Executive and the Finance Director form part 
of an operations board (The Directors Forum). This forum is responsible for running
the operations of the Company. For the last six months of the year, following the
resignation of Michael Jolly the Chief Executive, Suzie Mumm  took over the
roles of both Chief Executive and Chairman. This was deemed to be in the best
interests of the Company for a short period whilst changes were made. Sir James
Harvie-Watt, Bt the senior non executive director has now taken on the role 
of Non-Executive Chairman.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board of Directors meets at least eight times a year, and also has telephone
conferences as considered necessary. The Non-Executive Directors may meet
without the Executive Directors being present if required.
The Board has a balance of skills and experience appropriate to its size and
business. It is made up of two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive
Directors of whom two (Sir James Harvie-Watt, Bt and Richard Stillwell) are
deemed by the Company to be independent of management and free from any
business or other relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise
of their independent judgement. Their overriding duty is to ensure the operations
conducted by the company and the procedures followed reflect the best interests
of the Company's shareholders. The biographies of the Board Directors appear
on page 6. In the event that there is a need to express concerns to the Board
other than through the Chairman, the Board has appointed Richard Stillwell as
the Senior Independent Director to whom such concerns can be conveyed.
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed on issues
arising at Board meetings by; distributing a formal schedule of matters assigned
to each Board meeting which is circulated at the beginning of each year; a more
detailed agenda together with the Board papers are circulated at least seven
days before each Board meeting; considering the adequacy of the information
provided before making decisions; adjourning meetings or deferring decisions
when Directors require further information; encouraging Directors to talk to any
other key executives or seek further information in order to keep them as
informed as they deem appropriate; having key executives attend Board
meetings to share information and encourage debate with Board members.
The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its performance yearly. This
comprises an external evaluation of the Board's processes and then one to one
interviews with each Board member 
The Board has delegated specific authorities to an Audit Committee and 
a Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee operates under written terms of reference. The Committee
is composed of the Non-Executive Directors with the Chief Executive and the
Finance Director in attendance as requested by the Committee.
The Committee is chaired by Sir James Harvie-Watt, Bt and normally meets
before the Company's interim and annual accounts are submitted to the Board
for approval. The Committee meets annually without management with the
Company's auditors to ensure any concerns the auditors may have are fully
expressed. The Committee also recommends the appointment and reviews 
the fees of external auditors including non-audit related fees.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of reference.
The Committee is composed of Non-Executive Directors deemed by the Board 
to be independent of management and is chaired by Richard Stillwell and meets
periodically to approve the remuneration for the Executive Directors and to
discuss the remuneration of senior employees. The Committee sets general 
policy on behalf of the Board in connection with salaries, bonuses, options 
and employee benefits. The Remuneration Report is on pages 10 to 13.
Nominations Committee
It is deemed appropriate for all members of the Board to participate in the
recruitment of members of the Board. There is a formal, rigorous and transparent
procedure for appointing new directors to the Board. A person, skills and
experience specification is drawn up in the context of the skills and experience
which are deemed to be needed in a new Board Director, against which a short
list of candidates is matched, and full competency based interviews take place
before all Board members interview candidates. All new Board members
undertake a three-day familiarisation process. This involves visits to several
Penna locations and meeting a number of Penna people in order to get as full
an understanding of the business and the issues it faces as possible. This process
has recently been renewed, and will form part of the Penna employee
familiarisation program.
Maintenance of a sound system of Internal Control
In applying Principle D.2 of the Combined Code, the Board should maintain a
sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and the
Company's assets. The Directors recognise that they have overall responsibility
for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide
them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations,
internal financial control and compliance with laws and regulations. However,
there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and, accordingly,
even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
For the full year the Board has complied with the procedures recommended by
the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee. The processes
used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control
include:
l
Monthly meetings of the Directors Forum which are subsequently reported on
to the Board 
l
Discussions with management on risk areas identified by management and/or
the audit process  Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2004
l
Discussions and review of the issues arising from internal and external audits 
l
The review of significant Group risks.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of their review of the risk
assessment process. The Board concludes on the overall effectiveness of all
internal controls.
The key features of the internal financial control system that operated throughout
the period are described below:
l
Comprehensive planning system, annually approved by the Board 
l
The reporting of business performance by operations directors 
l
Monthly financial reporting comparing actual performance against plan 
and against the prior year's results on a monthly and year-to-date basis 
l
Regular consideration by the Board of actual performance against budgets 
and business plans 
l
Ongoing discussions with the head of each discipline within the organisation
l
A review of the financial controls across the Group 
l
Regular reporting of legal and accounting developments to the Board 
l
The definition of lines of responsibility and delegation of authority
l
The setting of authorisation limits.
The Board carefully reviews the business plans and budgets. Material capital
expenditure and other large commitments in excess of approved plans are
subject to approval by the Board.
Given the Group's size and the nature of the Group's business, the Board does
not consider that it would be appropriate to have its own internal audit function
at present. Instead, the audit of internal financial controls form part of the
responsibilities of the central group finance function.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chief Executive's
Review on pages 1 to 5 includes a detailed review of the business. There is
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the
Company's preliminary announcement of the year-end results and at the half year.
Feedback from investors is encouraged and is shared with all Board members.
Information about Group companies and up to date news on the Group's services
and activities is also accessible via the Penna Consulting web site (www.e-
penna.com).
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The Board aims to
ensure that all the Non-Executive Directors are available at Annual General
Meetings to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting on 29 September 2004 can be found in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting.
Compliance Statement
The UK Listing Authority's Rules require that the Board reports on the Company's
compliance with the Code provisions throughout the accounting period.
The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the Code throughout 
the year except as detailed below.
Following the resignation of the Chief Executive in October 2003, the Chairman
undertook the responsibilities of this role on an interim basis. The Board
announced on 2 June 2004 that the senior independent non-executive director,
Sir James Harvie-Watt, Bt, will become Chairman and that Suzie Mumm  would
continue as Chief Executive. Richard Stillwell will now become the senior
independent director.
Sir James Harvie-Watt, Bt.
Chairman
21 June 2004
Corporate governance statement 9