 Corporate governance 13
Phoenix IT Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
The Directors confirm that in the period
following flotation, the Company has
complied with the provisions of the
revised Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in July 2003, other
than as disclosed below. The application
of the principles of the Code, in the
composition and operation of the Board,
the remuneration of the Directors,
relations with Shareholders and
procedures for financial reporting and
internal control are described below.
The Board of Directors
The Group is controlled by a Board of
Directors which meets regularly and
currently comprises two Executive and
two Non Executive Directors. The Non
Executive Directors are Peter Bertram
who is Chairman and John Sussens who
is the Senior Independent Director, both
of whom are considered by the Board to
be independent of management and free
from any business or other relationship
which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their independent
judgement.
The Chairman's main other commitments
are disclosed on page 10. The roles of
Chairman and Chief Executive are
separate. The Chairman is responsible 
for leadership of the Board, ensuring its
effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Board is responsible to Shareholders
for the proper management of the 
Group and for its system of corporate
governance. It receives information on 
a monthly basis to enable it to review
trading performance, forecasts and
strategy and it has a schedule of matters
specifically reserved for its decision.
The most significant of these are:
  Changes to the structure, size and
composition of the Board;
  Consideration of the independence 
of Non Executive Directors;
  Review of management structure and
senior management responsibilities;
  With the assistance of the
Remuneration Committee, approval 
of remuneration policies across 
the Group;
  Approval of strategic plans, profit
plans and budgets and any material
changes to them;
  Oversight of the Group's operations
ensuring competent and prudent
management, sound planning, an
adequate system of internal control and
adequate accounting and other records;
  Final approval of annual accounts and
accounting policies;
  Approval of the dividend policy;
  Approval of the acquisition or disposal
of subsidiaries and major investments
and capital projects;
  Delegation of the Board's powers and
authorities, including the division of
responsibilities between the Chairman,
and the Chief Executive and other
Executive Directors; and
  Receiving reports on the views of
the Company's Shareholders.
Operational management of the Group
is delegated to the Chief Executive and
Group Finance Director.
Procedures exist to allow the Directors
to seek independent legal advice in
respect of their duties at the Company's
expense where the circumstances are
appropriate. All Directors have access 
to the Company Secretary for advice.
All Directors are required to submit
themselves for re-election at regular
intervals and at least every three years.
Due to the short period of time since
the flotation the Board has not
undertaken a formal and rigorous
evaluation of its own and sub-
committees performance as required 
by the Combined Code Provision A6.1
but the Board will assess the collective
contribution of the Board of Directors
during 2005.
The two Non Executive Directors
appointed in October 2004 prior 
to the flotation were not selected
using an external consultancy or open
advertisements as required by Code
Provision A4.6 but were selected on the
basis of their sector experience and
complementary skills and experience
they bring to the Board.
Committees of the Board
The following formally constituted
Committees deal with specific aspects 
of the Group's affairs in accordance with
their written terms of reference, which
are reviewed annually and are available
on request.
The Audit Committee's purpose is to
assist the Board in the discharge of its
responsibilities for financial reporting
and corporate control and to provide 
a forum for reporting by the external
auditors. The Committee which is
chaired by Peter Bertram, who is a
Chartered Accountant, comprises the
Non Executive Directors and meets at
least three times a year.
A report on its activities is given on 
page 15.
The Remuneration Committee, which is
chaired by John Sussens and comprises
the Non Executive Directors, meets at
least twice a year and additionally as
required. It is responsible for reviewing
remuneration arrangements for members
of the Board, and all senior reports of
the Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director and for providing general
guidance on aspects of remuneration
policy throughout the Group.
A report on its activities is given on 
page 16.
The Nominations Committee is chaired
by Peter Bertram and comprises the
Non Executive Directors. The Committee
is responsible for proposing candidates
to the Board, having regard to the
balance and structure of the Board. The
Committee has not met in the period
since flotation as there have not been
any Board appointments to consider.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for establishing
and maintaining the Group's system of
internal control. Internal control systems
are designed to meet the particular
needs of the Group and the risks to
which it is exposed. By their nature
however, internal control systems are
designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
Key elements of the internal control
system are described below. These have
all been in place throughout the year
and up to the date of this report and 
are all reviewed regularly by the Board:
  On-going procedures to identify,
evaluate and manage significant risks
faced by the business in accordance
with the guidance of the Turnbull
Committee on Internal Controls and
procedures to monitor the control
systems in place to reduce these risks
to an acceptable level;
  Clearly defined management structure
and delegation of authority to
Committees of the Board and the
Executive Directors;
  Clearly documented internal
procedures set out in the Group's
ISO9001 accredited quality manual;
  High recruitment standards and formal
career development and training to
ensure the integrity and competence 
of staff;
  Regular and comprehensive
information provided to management,
covering financial performance and key
performance indicators, including non-
financial measures; Corporate governance continued 14
Phoenix IT Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
  A detailed budgeting process covering
budgets for the coming year which are
approved by the Board;
  Procedures for the approval of
capital expenditure, investments 
and acquisitions;
  Monthly monitoring and reforecasting
of results against budget, with major
variances followed up and management
action taken where appropriate;
  Regular internal audits of key
processes and procedures under the
Group's ISO9001 accredited quality
assurance process; and
  Formal consideration of progress made
against significant business risks at
monthly Operating Board meetings,
with quarterly briefings to the Board.
Each year the Audit Committee and the
Group Finance Director formally review
the need for an internal audit function.
At the current time a formal internal
audit function is not considered
necessary for a number of reasons:
the small size of the Group, the relative
simplicity of the nature and type of
transactions entered into by the Group,
and significant executive involvement in
the Group's day to day business. The
Board, with the assistance of the Audit
Committee, is responsible for reviewing
the effectiveness of the Group's systems
of internal control. During the year, as
part of the flotation process, the Board
has reviewed the effectiveness of the
systems of internal control based on a
review of significant risks identified and
the results of quality and other reports
from management.
Auditor independence
The Company has a rigorous policy
designed to ensure that the auditors'
independence is not compromised by
their undertaking inappropriate non-
audit work. All significant non-audit 
work commissioned from the external
auditors requires Audit Committee
approval. The external auditors are only
selected to undertake non-audit work
where the nature of the advice makes it
more timely and cost effective to select
advisers who already have a good
understanding of the Group.
The Audit Committee has undertaken 
a review of the nature and amount of
non-audit work undertaken by the
external auditors to satisfy itself that
there is no effect on their independence.
Going concern
The Directors are satisfied that the
Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future, a period of
not less that twelve months from the
date of this report. For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Communication with Shareholders
The Company values the views of
Shareholders and recognises their
interests in the Group's strategy and
performance. It holds briefings with
institutional fund managers, analysts
and other investors, primarily following
the announcement of interim and
preliminary results, as well as at other
times during the year as may be
appropriate. The Company's programme
of investor relations activities is
designed to ensure that the investing
community receives a balanced and
consistent view of the Group's
performance. All Shareholders are
welcomed to the Annual General
Meeting, at which the Board of Directors
will be available to answer questions
from Shareholders.
Code Provision D1.1 requires the Senior
Non Executive Director to meet with
major Shareholders. Since flotation this
requirement has been undertaken by the
Chairman, who has met with a range of
major Shareholders to offer an
alternative point of contact for matters
of concern. In addition, the Board
receive reports from the Company's
broker twice a year that communicate
feedback from major Shareholders.
The Board also reviews analyst coverage
of the Company every month.
Attendance at meetings
The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director in the five months following flotation was as
follows:
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
Chairman
P Bertram 332211
Executive Directors
N Robinson 3 2
D Taylor 3 3
Non Executive Director
J Sussens 332211
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
David Taylor
Secretary
17 May 2005