 22441.04 26 June 2013 2:17 PM Proof 6
Phoenix IT Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
26
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board whose 
responsibilities include:
  
Reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial 
statements of the Group and results announcements of 
the Company and any other formal announcement relating 
to the Group's financial performance, reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgements contained therein, and 
recommending them to the Board for approval;
  
Reviewing the Group's systems for internal financial control 
and risk management;
  
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's 
Internal Audit function; 
  
Considering the appointment of the external Auditor; 
overseeing the selection process; and making 
recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put 
to the Shareholders for their approval in general meeting, 
in relation to the appointment, reappointment or removal 
and the approval of the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external Auditor;
  
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity 
and independence of the external Auditor, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements, agreeing the nature and scope of the 
audit process, and considering the Auditor's reports on 
the Group's financial statements and systems of internal 
financial control and risk management; 
  
Developing and implementing the policy on using the 
Auditor's services for non-audit advice, taking into account 
relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external audit firm; and
  
Monitoring and reviewing the Group's  whistleblowing' 
policy.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the 
Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that 
action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations 
on the steps to be taken.
Composition and Meetings of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the three independent Non-
Executive Directors. Biographical details of the independent 
Directors are set out on page 14 and their remuneration is 
set out on page 33. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is 
Brian Sellwood. The Audit Committee invites others, including 
senior representatives of the Company's external Auditor, 
the Executive Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer & Chief 
Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the 
Head of Internal Audit, to attend its meetings as appropriate, 
although it reserves the right to request any of these 
individuals to withdraw. Other senior management are invited 
to present such reports as are required for the Committee to 
discharge its duties. At least once each year representatives 
of the Company's external Auditor meet the Audit Committee 
without any Executive Directors present. 
The Audit Committee meets regularly and met three times 
during the year end 31 March 2013 and has an agenda linked 
to events in the Group's financial calendar. The agenda 
is predominantly cyclical and is approved by the Audit 
Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members. Each 
Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on 
matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items. 
The Board believes that the members of the Committee 
have sufficient skills, qualifications and experience to enable 
the Committee to discharge its duties, in accordance with 
the Terms of Reference. The Terms of Reference for the 
Committee are reviewed annually to ensure that they are in 
line with current best practice and are then referred to the 
Board for approval.
Accounting Irregularities 
As previously announced on 3 September 2012 and reported 
in further detail in the Interim Report of 29 November 2012, 
accounting irregularities found in the Servo Limited business 
and its subsidiaries required the restatement of profit after 
taxation relating to prior accounting periods. The Board 
appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC ) and Nabarro 
LLP to conduct an independent forensic investigation of such 
irregularities. A full update of the findings of the investigations 
initiated by the Board and of the actions taken or being taken 
as a consequence of those investigations are set out in the 
Business Review and the Directors' Report. 
Main activities of the Audit Committee
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the 31 March 
Report and Financial Statements, the half-year Interim 
Results and the Interim Management Statements issued on 
26 July 2012 and 13 February 2013. As part of these reviews 
the Committee received reports from the external Auditor 
on their review and subsequently met in March to receive a 
presentation by the external Auditor setting out their audit 
approach and procedures. In addition the Committee: 
  
considered the quality of the reports and the output from 
the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and 
mitigate risks;
  
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls 
and disclosures made in the annual report and financial 
statements; 
  
reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be 
undertaken by the Auditor;
  
evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external 
Auditor; 
  
agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to 
the external Auditor; 
  
reviewed its own effectiveness;
  
evaluated the performance of the Internal Audit function; 
  
agreed a programme of work for the Company's Internal 
Audit function; and 
  
received reports from Internal Audit on the work 
undertaken by Internal Audit and management responses 
to proposals made in the audit reports issued during the 
year. 
Audit Committee
Report 22441.04 26 June 2013 2:17 PM Proof 6
www.phoenix.co.uk
Stock Code: PNX
27
Our Governance
As previously announced following the appointment of PwC 
to undertake an independent forensic investigation in relation 
to the accounting irregularities referred to above, the Board 
appointed PwC as Auditor of the Group with effect from  
3 October 2012. Deloitte LLP resigned as Auditor of the Group 
on 24 September 2012. The Audit Committee recommended 
to the Board the appointment of PwC as Auditor without any 
tendering process on the grounds that in the circumstances of 
the accounting irregularities that came to light in September 
2012 there was insufficient time to undertake such a process 
and that the experience and known capabilities of PwC 
merited their prompt appointment.
External Auditor
The Audit Committee keeps under review the relationship with 
the external Auditor including:
  
the qualification, expertise and resources of the external 
Auditor, the effectiveness of the audit process including 
the external Auditor's quality control procedures;
  
the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor 
taking into account relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements and the relationship with the audit firm as a 
whole, including the provision of non-audit services; and
  
reviewing and implementing the policy on audit fees and 
fees for other non-audit services.
During the year both the previous Auditor and the newly 
appointed Auditor provided non-audit services. Note 8 to the 
financial statements include disclosure of the remuneration of 
both audit firms during the year, including an analysis of the 
audit services, the audit related services and the non-audit 
services. Auditor objectivity and independence of PwC was 
safeguarded through the forensic investigation work being 
performed by partners and staff who have no involvement 
in the audit of the financial statements. No services were 
provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements. There 
are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of 
external Auditor. Following assessment and review the Audit 
Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC be 
re-appointed. During the year KPMG were also appointed as 
Internal Audit advisers to help strengthen the Internal Audit 
function.
Internal Audit Function
The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its 
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and 
plans of the Internal Audit department. To fulfil these duties, 
the Audit Committee reviewed:
  
Internal Audit's terms of reference, reporting lines and 
access to the Audit Committee and all members of the 
Board; 
  
Internal Audit's plans and its achievement of the planned 
activity;
  
the results of key audits and other significant findings, the 
adequacy of management's response and the timeliness 
of resolution;
  
the statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and 
experience and timeliness of reporting; and
  
the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by 
Internal Audit.
In addition the Audit Committee reviewed the following: 
  
the recommendations of PwC in relation to the 
strengthening of the internal control processes;
  
the recommendations of KPMG contained in their Internal 
Audit effectiveness review (more fully referred to in the 
Directors' Report).
Overview
As a result of its work during the year the Audit Committee 
has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its T erms of 
Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity 
of the external Auditor. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the 
work of the Audit Committee. 
Brian Sellwood
Chairman, Audit Committee
31 May 2013