 Introduction
The Board supports the principles of corporate governance advocated by the Combined Code (the Code) and details are 
given below on the Company's approach to the application of the principles set out in the Code for the year under review. 
Since the Initial Public Offering Pinewood Shepperton plc has been compliant with the Code subject to the composition of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees, on which the Chairman sits. Given the size of the Company's Board it is considered
appropriate that Michael Grade sits on the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Composition of the Board
The Board consists of the Chairman, Michael Grade, three Executive Directors and two independent Non-Executive Directors.
Adrian Burn is the senior independent Director . 
Independence of Directors
Adrian Burn has been an independent Non-Executive Director of the Company since April 2000, and throughout the period 
has contributed significantly in discharging his duties in this role. Nigel Hall, who joined the Board as an independent Director
at the Initial Public Offering, brings a depth of listed company experience, and has been influential in guiding the Company
through its initial phase as a listed company. 
Board meetings
The Board meets at least ten times per year and at other times as appropriate. During the year under review the Board held 
ten scheduled meetings, which were attended by all serving Directors, save for Sir Ridley Scott and Tony Scott, as a result of
overseas commitments. In addition, a further nine meetings were held in relation to the Initial Public Offering. 
The duties and responsibilities of the Board
The Board is responsible for the following: strategy, capital expenditure projects over certain thresholds, treasury policy,
interim and final dividends, the financial statements and appointments to the Board.
The Board receives comprehensive monthly financial and operational information to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities. 
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and to senior management, to facilitate their assessment of the
Company's prospects, including succession planning. Procedures are in place for Directors to take independent professional
advice if required.
Board evaluation
During 2005 the Board intends to undertake an evaluation of its effectiveness and that of its committees and its members. 
There will also be a process for the Chairman's appraisal of the performance of the individuals on the Board. The performance 
of the Chairman will be reviewed by the senior independent Director . 
The Chairman's commitments
In line with the requirement of the Code the Directors report that Michael Grade's commitments to the Company have
remained constant throughout 2004. In May 2004, Michael Grade was appointed Chairman of the Governors of the BBC, 
a customer of Pinewood Shepperton plc. The Chairman of Pinewood Shepperton plc's Audit Committee has agreed
procedures with his counterpart at the BBC to avoid any potential conflict arising. 
Pinewood Shepperton plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21
Corporate governance Directors' training
Directors receive extensive details about the Company prior to appointment to the Board, and continue to be updated on all
operational issues via Board meetings and direct access to management. On an ongoing basis the Directors are briefed and
provided with information concerning issues affecting their roles and responsibilities.
Executive Directors' contracts
All Executive Directors' service contracts are of a rolling 12 months' duration.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Executive Directors have regular and structured contact with institutional shareholders and respond to shareholder queries
and requests. In addition, the Chairman makes himself available to meet significant shareholders.
Board committees
The Board has established three committees - Audit, Nomination and Remuneration. The Chairman and members of these
committees are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, following consultation with 
the appropriate committee's chairman. All meetings of the committees were attended by the serving members of the 
respective committees. 
Audit Committee
Adrian Burn - Chairman
Nigel Hall
Michael Grade
Adrian Burn and Nigel Hall are both independent Non-Executive Directors and have significant financial experience due to the
senior positions they have held in major commercial organisations. 
The committee has written terms of reference reflecting the requirements of the Code which have been approved by the Board
and implemented with effect from 19 April 2004, as amended 27 September 2004. The committee provides the Board with
assurance in respect of the integrity of the Group's financial procedures, policies and controls. The Group's external auditors
have direct access to the Audit Committee and meet with them prior to the finalisation of the interim and final results, and on
other occasions as required. The Audit Committee reports to the full Board of Pinewood Shepperton plc. The committee also
reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process including the issue of auditor independence. In line with best practice,
the Audit Committee has introduced a policy that defines non-audit services that the Group's auditors may or may not 
provide. The committee met four times during the year with the external auditors, with the Finance Director in attendance. 
The Audit Committee has concluded that given the size of the Company, an internal audit function is not currently required.
Pinewood Shepperton plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Corporate governance continued
22 Nomination Committee
Nigel Hall - Chairman
Adrian Burn
Michael Grade
Following the adoption of the Code the Board has put in place terms of reference for the committee, which were approved by
the Board on 19 April 2004, as amended on 27 September 2004. The committee's purpose will be to make recommendations
to the Board on all proposed appointments of Directors and to review succession plans for the Group. It is intended that the
committee will meet at least three times per year .
Remuneration Committee
Nigel Hall - Chairman
Adrian Burn
Michael Grade
A detailed report on the Remuneration Committee's activities is contained within the Directors' remuneration report.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness in
accordance with the provisions of the Code. The internal control system implemented at Pinewood Shepperton plc for the year
under review, and continuing, is structured in order that the Group's risks are effectively identified, evaluated and managed 
to provide reasonable but not absolute reassurance that there is no material misstatement or loss. This process is consistent
with the requirements of the Turnball Guidance.
The main elements of the Group's internal control system including risk identification are as follows:
Board
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group's internal control procedures, with an organisational structure that
supports clearly defined authority levels. Board meetings include consideration of strategic, financial, operational and
compliance issues, which is endorsed through assessment by the Audit Committee of the effectiveness of the internal,
financial and operating control environment.
Operating company controls
The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior heads of
department of each studio operating company, which maintain procedures to identify and mitigate all types of risk.
Financial reporting
A comprehensive budget, incorporating detailed commentary, is approved annually by the Board of Directors. Monthly financial
information including trading results, balance sheet, cash flow statements, cash forecasts, capital expenditure and levels of
indebtedness are reported against the budget and prior year comparatives. In addition, forecasts, treasury policy, financial
resources, borrowing facilities and hedging strategy are reviewed at these meetings. On an annual basis, the Board reviews 
the adequacy of the insurance cover for the Group. 
Pinewood Shepperton plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Corporate governance continued
23 Internal control continued
Shareholder communication
Pinewood Shepperton plc has a communication strategy with its shareholders, the majority of whom are institutional. 
The Company regularly communicates with its employees, a number of whom are shareholders in the Company. All Company
announcements are posted on the investor relations section of the Company's website at www.pinewoodshepperton.com 
as soon as they are released. Relevant shareholder presentations are also accessible to all investors via the website. 
The Company's dedicated investor relations section of its website includes historical financial and share price information, 
as well as information about the business. Following the announcement of interim and final results, presentations are 
made to institutional shareholders. The Annual General Meeting, to be held on 23 May 2005, provides an opportunity for
shareholders to meet and question the Company's Board, and to review the previous year's results and business. 
Employees
The Company has comprehensive employment practices for recruitment, remuneration, employee relations and health 
and safety.
Pinewood Shepperton plc is committed to its statutory obligations in respect of recruitment and the progression of its
employees irrespective of race, gender, age, sexual orientation, physical ability, or religion, and seeks to ensure regular 
and relevant communication with employees in respect of operational issues and trading performance. 
Environmental policy
Pinewood Shepperton plc's environmental policy was formalised in May 2004. The policy is reviewed regularly to reflect the
Group's respect for the environment and the local communities within which it operates. Pinewood Shepperton supports 
a caring approach to environmental challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 
and encourages development and diffusion of environmentally friendly processes.
Health and safety management, which is reviewed monthly by the Board, pays particular attention to safety in the work place
for staff and customers and also the working environment within which the Company operates.
Pinewood Shepperton plc's proposed enhancement plans embrace the use of environmentally friendly technology in the
construction of new buildings, which will include the review of energy efficiency, recycling of water and waste and solar energy.
Social responsibility policy
Pinewood Shepperton plc is cognisant of its social responsibility. The Board takes regular account of the significance of social
matters in business of the Company and has identified areas of social responsibility pertinent to its business, which cover
labour standards, charitable contributions, training opportunities aimed at the local community and the elimination of any
employee or discriminatory issues in the work place.
Pinewood Shepperton plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Corporate governance continued
24