 PLETHORA SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2006 16
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Directors value the principles of good governance and have applied principles of corporate governance
commensurate with its size. 
Directors
The Directors support the concept of an effective board leading and controlling the Group. The Board is
responsible for approving Group policy and strategy.  It meets on a regular basis and has a schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decision making. Management supply the Board with appropriate and timely
information and the Directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary. All Directors have
access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advice at the Group's expense.  
The Board consists of three executive directors, who hold the key operational positions in the Group and five
non-executive directors, who bring a breadth of experience and knowledge. This provides a balance whereby the
Board's decision making cannot be dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the Board is Stuart Wallis and
the Company's business is run by Messrs Steven Powell, Mike Wyllie and Brad Hoy.  The biographies of the
Directors are set out below:
Stuart Wallis (Non-Executive Chairman)
Stuart Wallis is a Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Taxation and is currently Chairman of
Protherics plc, The Simply Smart Group Limited, BCS Global Networks Ltd., TSL Education Ltd. and LGC Group
Holdings plc. He is also director of a number of other companies.
He has been Chairman of a number of publicly listed companies including LLP plc, Yorkshire Group plc, SSL
International plc and Communisis plc, as well as a number of private businesses. He was formerly Chief Executive
of Fisons plc and was also an executive director of Bowater plc, Octopus plc and Hestair plc.
Professor Sir Christopher Evans (Non-Executive Director)
As one of Europe's leading biotechnology entrepreneurs, Sir Christopher has established twenty successful
technology companies and floated four on the London Stock Exchange. Sir Christopher is the founder and
Chairman of Merlin Biosciences Limited, a European venture capital firm specialising in investments in life sciences.
Sir Christopher was awarded a Knighthood in the 2001 New Year's Honours List for services to the bioscience
industry and in the 1995 New Year's Honours List an OBE for services to biotechnology.
Neil Stafford (Non-Executive Director)
Neil Stafford has been a Director of Plethora Solutions since 2 December 2003 and is its co-founder. Neil has
held positions of increasing responsibility with American Cyanamid, Hoffmann-La Roche and Monsanto PLETHORA SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2006 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporation. He stepped down as Global Business Director of Monsanto Corporation in January 2000 in order to
develop his own business portfolio. Neil helped establish Exemplar, the US market leader in the outsourcing of
corporate healthcare, led the buy-out of Medscreen from its US parent and was responsible for the spin-out of
Vientia Genetics Limited from a leading UK teaching hospital. Neil is an advisor to a number of leading private
equity houses and institutions in London and New York.
Dr Ann Hayes (Non-Executive Director)
Ann worked for GlaxoWellcome (now GlaxoSmithKline) for over 20 years, initially in research, with particular
expertise in the areas of CNS and analgesia. Her last position in GlaxoWellcome was an international role as a
Director in Drug Discovery, with accountability for determining long-term discovery strategy across all therapeutic
areas, and with additional responsibilities in portfolio management and in re-engineering discovery processes.
Ann is currently an independent consultant, working extensively with small Pharma and biotechnology companies.
William (Bill) Robinson (Non-Executive Director)
Bill Robinson is currently Executive Vice President of Global Operations for UCB, a leading global
biopharmaceutical company, where he is responsible for all of UCB's global commercial and medical affairs. He is
also currently a Non-Executive Director of Sciele Pharma Inc., of Atlanta, Georgia USA. Before joining UCB in
2005, Bill spent 28 years with Eli Lilly in a variety of senior executive roles including VP Sales and Marketing
based in Indianapolis and regional management in Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East. Prior to joining Eli Lilly
he worked for Bourroughs Wellcome and Servier, both based in the UK.
Dr Steven Powell (Chief Executive Officer)
Steven joined Plethora as CEO in 2004.  Prior to this he was a director of the Gilde Biotechnology and Nutrition
Fund, a pan-European venture capital fund focused on investments in early-stage life science companies. In
addition to his private equity experience, Steven has 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical and life
sciences sector, during which time he has worked in research and development, commercial and general
management roles.
Dr Mike Wyllie (Chief Scientific Officer)
Mike Wyllie is a co-founder of Plethora Solutions. He has over 25 years of experience in senior management level
positions within the pharmaceutical industry with American Home Products and Pfizer. He has considerable
experience in all aspects of drug discovery and development and has been involved the successful commercialisation
of products including Cardura (doxazosin) and Viagra (sildenafil). Dr. Wyllie sits on The Clinical Trial Design and
Future Therapies in BPH Committees of the World Health Organisation International Consultations on Urological
Disease and he is an assistant editor of the British Journal of Urology in the Sexual Medicine Section. He has over
100 publications and is named as the inventor of in excess of 80 patents. PLETHORA SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2006 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Bradley Hoy (Chief Financial Officer)
Brad joined Plethora as CFO in March 2005. He has over ten years experience in the pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industries through financial and general management roles in the UK and USA. Most recently Brad
was CEO of UK private biotech company Xcellsyz Limited until the sale of its assets to Cambrex Corporation Inc.
Prior to this he was Senior Director of Geron Corporation's Edinburgh-based subsidiary Geron Bio-Med Limited.
Previously Brad held senior financial positions at Cyclacel Limited and ChiRex, Inc. and in subsidiaries of Rolls-
Royce plc and BTR plc. Brad is co-founder of Seven Hills Venture Partners Limited an Edinburgh-based life
science advisory group. Brad is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Relations with shareholders
The Directors value the views of its shareholders and recognise their interest in the Group's strategy and
performance. The Annual General Meeting will be used to communicate with private investors and they are
encouraged to participate. The Directors will be available to answer questions. Separate resolutions will be
proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there will be a resolution to approve
the annual report and accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders'
investment and the Group's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal financial control is
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
An audit committee has been established, chaired by Dr Ann Hayes, which meets twice per year and is
responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is monitored properly and reported on, as
well as meeting the auditors and reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and internal
control systems.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the Group does not
justify it at present.  However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The key features of the Group's system of internal control are as follows:
  the Group is headed by an effective Board, which leads and controls the Group;
  there is a clear division of responsibilities in running the Board and running the Group's business;
  the Board includes a balance of executive and non-executive Directors; and
  the Board receives and reviews on a timely basis financial and operating information appropriate to being able
to discharge its duties. PLETHORA SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2006 19
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future based on Group forecasts. The forecasts include the
funding from the recently agreed purchase by Sciele Pharma Inc of a $7 million equity stake in Plethora and
future licensing transactions. If the future licensing transactions are not forthcoming, the Group would either
draw down on available alternate funding or curtail certain research and development activities. Accordingly, the
Group has sufficient cash resources to allow it to continue in business for a period of at least twelve months from
the date of approval of these financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The Group recognises that there is a requirement to prepare its financial statements under IFRS for the financial
year ending 31 December 2007. Accordingly, the Group's interim results to June 2007 will be prepared under
IFRS.  The Board believes that the most significant impact on the Group's financial statements will be with regard
to accounting for intangible assets and taxation.