 P L E T H O R A S O L U T I O N S A N N U A L R E P O R T A N D A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 7
15
C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E
The Directors value the principles of good governance and have applied principles of corporate governance
commensurate with its size.
Directors
The Directors support the concept of an effective board leading and controlling the Group. The Board is
responsible for approving Group policy and strategy. It meets on a regular basis and has a schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decision. Management supply the Board with appropriate and timely information
and the Directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary. All Directors have access to
advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advice at the Group's expense.
The Board consists of three Executive Directors, who hold the key operational positions in the Group and five
Non-Executive Directors, who bring a breadth of experience and knowledge. This provides a balance whereby
the Board's decision making cannot be dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the Board is Stuart Wallis
and the Group's business is run by Messrs Steven Powell, Mike Wyllie and Brad Hoy. The biographies of the
Directors are set out below:
Stuart Wallis (Non-Executive Chairman)
Stuart is a Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Taxation and is currently Chairman of
Protherics plc, BCS Global Networks Limited and LGC Holdings Limited. He is also a Director of Herons Park
Limited, Needtest Limited and Ashridge Automobiles Limited.
He has been Chairman of a number of publicly listed companies including LLP plc, Yorkshire Group plc, SSL
International plc and Communisis plc, as well as a number of private businesses. He was formerly chief
executive of Fisons plc and was also an executive director of Bowater plc, Octopus plc and Hestair plc.
Mark Docherty (Non-Executive Director)
Mark Docherty joined the Plethora Board in June 2007. He is currently a Director of Merlin Biosciences Limited,
a European venture capital firm specialising in investment in life science companies. Mark is also currently a
Non-Executive Director of Onyvax Limited, Decon Sciences Limited and ReNeuron Group plc. Mark is a
Chartered Accountant and, before joining Merlin, worked previously at Arthur Andersen. He has a degree in
Mechanical Engineering from Sheffield University.
Neil Stafford (Non-Executive Director)
Neil Stafford has been a Director of Plethora Solutions since December 2003 and is its co-founder. Neil has held
positions of increasing responsibility with American Cyanamid, Hoffmann-La Roche and Monsanto
Corporation. He stepped down as Global Business Director of Monsanto Corporation in January 2000 in order
to develop his own business portfolio. In the last three years, Neil helped establish Exemplar, the US market
leader in the outsourcing of corporate healthcare, led the buy-out of Medscreen from its US parent and was
responsible for the spin-out of Vientia Genetics Limited from a leading UK teaching hospital. Neil is an adviser
to a number of leading private equity houses and institutions in London and New York. P L E T H O R A S O L U T I O N S A N N U A L R E P O R T A N D A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 7
16
C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E
Dr Ann Hayes (Non-Executive Director)
Ann worked for 22 years for GlaxoWellcome (now GlaxoSmithKline), initially in research, with particular expert-
ise in the areas of CNS and analgesia. Her last position in GlaxoWellcome was an international role as a Director
in Drug Discovery, with accountability for determining long-term discovery strategy across all therapeutic areas,
and with additional responsibilities in portfolio management and in re-engineering discovery process. Dr Hayes
is currently an independent consultant, working extensively with small Pharma and biotechnology companies.
She is a non-executive board member of Curidium Ltd. She has over 100 publications.
William (Bill) Robinson (Non-Executive Director)
Bill Robinson is currently Executive Vice President of Global Operations for UCB, a leading global biopharma-
ceutical company, where he is responsible for all of UCB's global commercial and medical affairs. He is also
currently a Non-Executive Director of Sciele Pharma Inc., of Atlanta, Georgia USA. Before joining UCB in 2005,
Bill spent 28 years with Eli Lilly in a variety of senior executive roles including VP Sales and Marketing based in
Indianapolis and regional management in Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East. Prior to joining Eli Lilly he
worked for Bourroughs Wellcome and Servier, both based in the UK.
Dr Steven Powell (Chief Executive Officer)
Steven joined Plethora as CEO in 2004. Prior to this he was a Director of the Gilde Biotechnology and Nutrition
Fund, a European venture capital fund focused on investments in early-stage companies. In addition to his
private equity experience, Steven has 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical and life sciences sector,
latterly as CEO of UK quoted biopharmaceutical company KS Biomedix plc until its acquisition by Xenova Group
plc. He has worked in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries in research and development, commercial
and general management roles. Steven has also helped to establish and finance a number of small life science
businesses in a non-executive role.
Dr Mike Wyllie (Chief Scientific Officer)
Mike Wyllie is a co-founder of Plethora Solutions. He has over 25 years of experience in senior management
level positions within the pharmaceutical industry with American Home Products and Pfizer. He has consider-
able experience in all aspects of drug discovery and development and has been involved the successful
commercialisation of products including Cardura (doxazosin) and Viagra (sildenafil). Dr. Wyllie sits on The
Clinical Trial Design and Future Therapies in BPH Committees of the World Health Organisation International
Consultations on Urological Disease and he is an assistant editor of the British Journal of Urology in the Sexual
Medicine Section. He has over 100 publications and is named as the inventor of in excess of 80 patents.
Bradley Hoy (Chief Financial Officer)
Brad joined Plethora as CFO in March 2005. He has over ten years experience in the pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industries through financial and general management roles in the UK and USA. Most recently
Brad was CEO of UK private biotech company Xcellsyz Limited until the sale of its assets to Cambrex
Corporation Inc. Prior to this he was senior director of Geron Corporation's Edinburgh-based subsidiary Geron
Bio-Med Limited. Previously Brad held senior financial positions at Cyclacel Limited and ChiRex, Inc. and in
subsidiaries of Rolls-Royce plc and BTR plc. He is co-founder of Seven Hills Venture Partners Limited an
Edinburgh-based life science advisory group. Brad is a Chartered Management Accountant. P L E T H O R A S O L U T I O N S A N N U A L R E P O R T A N D A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 7
17
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors value the views of its shareholders and recognise their interest in the Group's strategy and
performance. The Annual General Meeting will be used to communicate with private investors and they are
encouraged to participate. The Directors will be available to answer questions. Separate resolutions will be
proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there will be a resolution to
approve the annual report and accounts.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' invest-
ment and the Group's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal financial control is
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An audit committee has been established, chaired by Mr William Robinson, which meets at half yearly intervals
and is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and report-
ed on, as well as meeting the auditors and reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and
internal control systems.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the Group does
not justify it at present. However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The key features of the Group's system of internal control are as follows:
  the Group is headed by an effective Board, which leads and controls the Group;
  there is a clear division of responsibilities in running the Board and running the Group's business;
  the Board includes a balance of executive and non-executive Directors; and
  the Board receives and reviews on a timely basis financial and operating information appropriate to being
able to discharge its duties.
Going Concern
The Group has prepared forecasts that demonstrate that it is a going concern. The forecasts include the
funding recently received of $25 million from the revenue interest financing agreement with Paul Capital
Healthcare and future licensing transactions. If the future licensing transactions are not forthcoming, the
Group would either seek alternate funding or curtail certain research and development activities. Accordingly,
the Group has sufficient cash resources to allow it to continue in business for a period of at least twelve
months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E