 Page 19
Corporate Governance
Application of principles
The group is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the board is accountable to the
shareholders for implementation of the principles underlying these standards. The steps taken throughout the group to maintain
good corporate governance are set out below.
Compliance
The board confirms that it is reporting in accordance with the requirements of the revised Combined Code (the Code) except
that Mrs. S. E. Nicholson and Mr M Chadwick, who served throughout the year as non-executive directors, could not be
considered to be independent of the company's management and shareholders in view of their shareholdings. Mr. R. Fildes,
who was appointed as an independent non-executive director in August 2006, could not be considered independent following
his appointment as chairman in January 2007. The company has not, therefore, complied with provisions A.3.1, A.3.2, A.4.1,
B.2.1 and C.3.1 of the Code. 
The board of directors
The company supports the concept of an effective board leading and controlling the group. The board is responsible for
approving overall group policy and strategy. It meets on at least six occasions in each calendar year and has a formal schedule
of matters reserved for its decision, including the approval of interim and preliminary announcements, approval of annual report
and accounts, approval of dividend policy, approval of major capital expenditure, treasury management, appointment of board
members and professional advisors and, in a supervisory capacity, formulation of the group's risk management strategy and
health, safety and environmental policies. 
Management supplies the board with appropriate and timely information both informally and formally through a structured
reporting process of committees, including monthly executive and finance committees. A full and open debate is encouraged
on all matters relating to strategy, performance, resources, key appointments and standards of conduct at all meetings of the
board. The directors are also free to seek any further information they consider necessary to fulfill their duties. All directors have
access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, where appropriate, independent professionals at the expense
of the company. Training is available for new directors and ongoing training and education is provided to other directors as
necessary.
At the date of this report the board comprised four executive directors and four non-executive directors. The names and
biographical details of all the directors are shown on page 16.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated and clearly defined. Mr. R. Fildes served as chairman throughout the
year and Mr. D. Shaw served as chief executive throughout the year. The other executive directors who also served throughout
the year were Mr J. Edwards, finance director, Mr J. W. P. Nicholson, property development director and Mr D. D. R. Pochin,
construction services director. Mr R. G. Buck served on the board until his resignation on 31 October 2007 and Mr L. R. Murray
served on the board until his resignation on 31 May 2008. 
The non-executive directors also served as members of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees. The non-
executive directors have skills that complement those of the executive directors. Mr. R. Fildes served as chairman throughout
the year and Mr. N. R. L. Fry served as senior independent non-executive director throughout the year. Mr. M. Chadwick and
Mrs. S. E. Nicholson also served throughout the year.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following appointment and to re-election by shareholders
every three years thereafter in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company (the Articles ). Mr J. Edwards, 
Mr N. R. L. Fry and Mr M. Chadwick will therefore be retiring at this year's AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for 
re-election.
Accountability and audit
The board has formally constituted three sub-committees for audit, remuneration and nominations. Membership and a
summary of the terms of reference of these committees are detailed below. 
  Page 20
Corporate Governance
Audit committee
Throughout the year the audit committee comprised the following non-executive directors: Mr. N. R L. Fry (chairman), Mr. R.
Fildes and Mr. M. Chadwick.
The terms of reference of the committee include reviewing the group's management of risk, internal financial and operating
controls, reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness, the independence and objectivity of the auditors,
including fees in relation to, and in the nature of, non-audit services and, annually, the need for an internal audit function. The
committee meets at least three times a year and external auditors attend together with the executive directors as and when
required.
Remuneration committee
Throughout the year the remuneration committee comprised the following non-executive directors: Mr. N. R. L. Fry (chairman),
Mr. R. Fildes and Mr. M. Chadwick.
The committee has the responsibility for making recommendations to the board for the remuneration policy of the company
and also packages for individual directors. It carries out the policy on behalf of the board. In carrying out these responsibilities
the committee has had full regard to the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Code.
Nominations committee
Throughout the year the nominations committee comprised the following non-executive directors: Mr. R. Fildes (chairman), 
Mrs. S. E. Nicholson, Mr. N. R. L. Fry and Mr. M. Chadwick. 
The committee makes recommendations to the board on all board appointments and takes advice from external consultants
when necessary. 
Attendance record
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Total number of meetings 2007/08 8 4 3 1
M. Chadwick 8/8 4/4 3/3 1/1
J. Edwards 8/8
R. Fildes 8/8 4/4 3/3 1/1
N. R. L. Fry 8/8 4/4 3/3 1/1
D. R. R. Pochin 7/8
J. W. P . Nicholson 7/8
S. E. Nicholson 8/8 1/1
D. Shaw 8/8
Notes:
1. Mr. R.G. Buck attended 3 board meetings up to 31 October 2007.
2. Mr. L.R. Murray attended 7 board meetings up to 31 May 2008.
  Page 21
Corporate Governance
Relations with shareholders
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the company's strategy and performance,
board membership and quality of management. The board has dialogue with certain of its institutional and other shareholders
on numerous issues during the year and is pleased to promote the mutual understanding of objectives. In accordance with
section D1.2 of the Code the chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. The company arranges for
Notice of the AGM and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 21days before the meeting. The chairmen of the audit,
remuneration and nominations committees are available at the AGM to answer questions. Separate resolutions are proposed
on each issue and clear distinction is also drawn between ordinary and special resolutions to ensure they are given due
consideration. There are separate resolutions to approve the annual report and accounts and the remuneration report. The
company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies lodged on the resolutions after they have been dealt with by
a show of hands. The company also displays its interim and final announcements on the company website.
Internal control
The board has overall responsibility for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing
basis. The board confirms that, in accordance with the Guidance on Internal Control (the Turnbull Report), the group has taken
steps necessary to ensure compliance with principle C.2 of the Code. The board has overall responsibility for the management
of risk and has in place a full risk and control register of the group's activities. This register is reviewed at least annually to monitor
and ensure the adequacy of its procedures for the management and control of risk. This process involves each of the subsidiary
company boards carrying out periodic reviews of the key risk areas within its own business, including a review of health and
safety (risks, measures and policies), response to changes in legislation and the identification of commercial risk. Each
subsidiary company reports this information to the board. This process enables the board to identify areas where procedures
need to be changed or implemented throughout the group and to initiate appropriate action plans. The board monitors progress
towards successful completion of these action plans and the identification of any new risks through a process of ongoing
review.
Although the group has the relevant systems and procedures in place, the board considers the management of risk to be an
ongoing process and to increase entrenchment of these procedures throughout the group, the board encourages the
management of its subsidiary companies to conduct reviews of risk management strategies and control measures at least
annually and also to report to the board on any changes in activity that may have a significant risk management impact. In the
light of the above, the board is of the view that the group has established procedures in place to identify, evaluate and manage
the significant risks faced by the group. Key elements of the group's internal control procedures include: 
  well established budget and reporting functions that are regularly monitored throughout the year by the board;
  clear lines of authority between the management of the subsidiary companies and the board;
  well established procedures by which the management of the subsidiaries submit proposals for major capital
expenditure for approval by the board.
  an ongoing process of reviewing risks faced by the group, together with clear board responsibility for implementing
measures to manage and, where possible, reduce these risks. 
The board has also reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the group's system of internal financial control for the financial
year and the period up to the date of approval of the financial statements. The systems that the company has in place for risk
management and financial control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The board has considered the
need for an internal audit function, but has decided that it is not justified in view of the current size of the company; a decision
which the audit committee reviews annually. 
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements. 