 18
APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES
The group is committed to maintaining high standards of
corporate governance and the board is accountable to the
shareholders for implementation of the principles underlying these
standards. The steps taken throughout the group to maintain
good corporate governance are set out below.
COMPLIANCE
The company has complied throughout the year with the
provisions of the Combined Code (the Code) except in the
following respects.Two of the four non-executive directors, Mrs. S.
E. Nicholson and Mr.W. R.Verity (who served throughout the
year), were not appointed for specific terms of office. In addition,
neither could be considered to be independent of the company's
management and shareholders.The company has not, therefore,
complied with provisions A3.2, A6.1, B2.2 and D3.1 of the Code
throughout the year.
The board has full regard to the requirements of the new Code
and although it does not come into effect until reporting years
beginning on or after1November 2003, the board is taking early
steps towards its implementation.
DIRECTORS
The board supports the concept of an effective board leading and
controlling the group. The board is responsible for approving
overall group policy and strategy. It meets on at least six
occasions in each calendar year and has a formal schedule of
matters reserved for its decision, including the approval of items of
major capital expenditure, treasury management, appointment of
professional advisors and, in a supervisory capacity, formulation of
the group's risk management strategy and health, safety and
environmental policies. Management supply the board with
appropriate and timely information and the directors are free to
seek any further information they consider necessary. All directors
have access to the advice and services of the company secretary
and, where appropriate, independent professionals at the
company's expense.Training is available for new directors and
ongoing training and education is provided to other directors as
necessary. New directors each received appropriate training
following their appointments earlier this year.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated and
clearly defined. Mr. N. J. Pochin is the chairman of the board who
encourages full and open debate on all matters relating to strategy,
performance, resources, key appointments, and standards of
conduct at all of the meetings of the board. Mr. J. H.Woodcock is 
the chief executive and managing director.The other executive
directors are Mr. D. Shaw, finance director, Mr. L. R. Murray,
construction director, Mr. R. G. Buck, business development
director and Mr. J.W. P . Nicholson, property development director.
Mr. Buck and Mr. Nicholson were both appointed to the board on
17th April 2003.
During the year, in addition to the executive directors, the board
comprised of four non-executive directors, whose skills complement
those of the executive directors. Mr.W. G. Underwood is the senior
independent non-executive director and Mr. P .A. Dickson is the
second independent non-executive director. The other two non-
executive directors were Mrs. S. E. Nicholson and Mr.W. R.Verity,
neither of whom are regarded by the board as being fully
independent of management and shareholders. The non-executive
directors are all members of the audit, remuneration and
nomination committees of the board.
Mr.W. R.Verity continued as a director of the company and served
on the audit, remuneration and nominations committees until his
death on 12th July 2003.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
The board has formally constituted three sub-committees for
audit, remuneration and nominations. Membership and a summary
of the terms of reference of the audit and remuneration
committees are included below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the audit committee comprised all the non-
executive directors, Mr. W. G. Underwood (chairman),
Mr. P . A. Dickson, Mrs. S. E. Nicholson and Mr. W. R. Verity. The
terms of reference of the committee include keeping under
review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
The committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the
auditors. It meets at least three times a year and external auditors
attend together with the executive directors if and when required.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the remuneration committee comprised all
the non-executive directors, Mr.W. G. Underwood (chairman),
Mr. P . A. Dickson, Mrs. S. E. Nicholson and Mr.W. R.Verity.The
committee has the responsibility for making recommendations to
the board on the company's policy on remuneration and also
specific packages for individual directors. It carries out the policy
on behalf of the board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the nominations committee comprised
Mr. N. J. Pochin (chairman) together with all the non-executive
directors, Mr.W. G. Underwood, Mr. P . A. Dickson, Mrs. S. E. Nicholson
and Mr.W. R.Verity.The committee makes recommendations to
the board on all new board appointments. During the year the
committee took the advice of external consultants, in order to
ascertain the most appropriate criteria and methods of selection,
before selecting the new directors for appointment to the board.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every
three years and, on appointment, at the first AGM after
appointment.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises
their interest in the company's strategy and performance, board
membership and quality of management. The board has dialogue
with certain of its institutional and other shareholders on
numerous issues during the year, and is pleased to promote the
mutual understanding of objectives.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they
are encouraged to participate. The chairmen of the audit,
remuneration and nomination committees will be available at the
AGM to answer questions. Separate resolutions are proposed on
each issue and clear distinction is also drawn between ordinary
and special resolutions so that they can be given proper
consideration.There are separate resolutions to approve the
annual report and accounts and the remuneration report. The
company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies
lodged on the resolutions, after they have been dealt with by a
show of hands.
The company also displays its interim and final announcements on
the company website.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board has overall responsibility for the group's system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing
basis.The board confirms that, in accordance with the Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (the
Turnbull Report), the group has taken steps necessary to ensure
compliance with principle D.2 of the Code.
The board has in place a full risk and control register of the
group's activities.This register is reviewed at least annually to
monitor and ensure the adequacy of its procedures for the
management and control of risk.This process involves each of the
subsidiary company boards carrying out periodic reviews of the
key risk areas within its own business.This includes a review of
health and safety (risks, measures and policies), the identification of
the relevant legislation and the identification of commercial risk.
Each subsidiary company reports this information to the board.
This process enables the board to identify areas where
procedures need to be changed or implemented throughout the
group and to put in place action plans to address these areas.
Successful completion of these action plans is then monitored by
the board along with ongoing reviews to identify any new risks.
Although the group has the relevant systems and procedures in
place, the board considers the management of risk to be an
ongoing process and in order to increase entrenchment of these
procedures throughout the group, the board encourages the
management of its subsidiary companies to, at least annually,
conduct reviews of risk management strategies and control
measures and also to report to the board on any changes in
activity which may have a significant risk management impact.
In light of the above, the board is of the view that the group has in
place established procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the
significant risks faced by the group. Key elements of the group's
internal control procedures are as follows:
  well established budget and reporting functions which are
regularly monitored throughout the year by the board;
  clear lines of authority between the management of the
subsidiary companies and the main board;
  well established procedures by which the management of the
subsidiaries submit items of major capital expenditure for the
approval of the main board.
  an ongoing process of reviewing risks faced by the group,
along with clear board responsibility for implementing
measures to manage and, if possible, reduce these risks.
The board has also reviewed the operation and effectiveness of
the group's system of internal financial control for the financial year
and the period up to the date of approval of the financial
statements. The systems which the company has in place for risk
management and financial control are designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The board has considered the need for an internal audit function
but has decided the size of the company does not justify it at
present. The audit committee reviews this decision annually.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE