 16/17
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the audit committee comprised all the non-executive directors, Mr W G Underwood (chairman), Mr P A Dickson,
Mrs S E Nicholson and Mr W R Verity (until 12 July 2003).
The terms of reference of the committee include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness. 
The committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors. It meets at least three times a year and external auditors attend
together with executive directors if and when required.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the remuneration committee comprised all the non-executive directors, Mr P A Dickson (chairman), Mr W G
Underwood, Mrs S E Nicholson and Mr W R Verity (until 12 July 2003). Mr W G Underwood was chairman of the committee until 
25 March 2004. The committee has the responsibility for making recommendations to the board on the company's policy on
remuneration and also specific packages for individual directors. It carries out the policy on behalf of the board. 
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the nominations committee comprised all the non-executive directors, Mr P A Dickson (chairman), Mr W G
Underwood, Mrs S E Nicholson and Mr W R Verity (until 12 July 2003), together with the company chairman. Mr N J Pochin was
chairman of the committee until 7 April 2004. 
The committee makes recommendations to the board on all new board appointments. The committee receives the advice of external
consultants, in order to ascertain the most appropriate criteria and methods of selection, before selecting new directors for appointment
to the board. New directors are subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment. All directors are subject to re-election
by shareholders every three years.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the company's strategy and performance, board
membership and quality of management. The board has dialogue with certain of its shareholders on a number of issues during the year,
and is pleased to promote the mutual understanding of objectives.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. Separate resolutions are proposed on
each issue and clear distinction is also drawn between ordinary and special resolutions so that they can be given proper consideration.
There are separate resolutions to approve the annual report and accounts and the remuneration report. The company counts all proxy
votes and indicates the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been voted on by a show of hands. The chairmen of the
audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be available at the AGM to answer questions. 
The company displays its interim and preliminary announcements on the company website. 
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board has overall responsibility for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The board confirms that, in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  (the Turnbull Report),
the group has taken steps necessary to ensure compliance with principle D.2 of the Code. The board has in place a full risk and control
register of the group's activities. This register is reviewed at least annually to monitor and ensure the adequacy of its procedures for the
management and control of risk. This process involves each of the subsidiary company boards carrying out periodic reviews of the key
risk areas within its own business. This includes a review of health and safety (risks, measures and policies), the identification of relevant
legislation and the identification of commercial risk. Each subsidiary company reports this information to the board, which then identifies
areas where procedures need to be changed or implemented throughout the group and to put in place action plans to address those
areas. Successful implementation of these action plans is then monitored by the board.  Corporate Governance
INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED)
Although the group has the relevant systems and procedures in place, the board considers the management of risk to be an ongoing
process and in order to increase entrenchment of these procedures throughout the group, the board requires the management of its
subsidiary companies to, at least annually, conduct reviews of risk management strategies and control measures and also to report to
the board on any changes in activity which may have a significant risk management impact. 
In light of the above, the board is of the view that the group has in place established procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the
significant operational and financial risks faced by each division within the group. Key elements of the group's internal control
procedures are as follows: 
  well established budget and reporting functions which are regularly monitored throughout the year by the board; 
  clear lines of authority between the management of the subsidiary companies and the main board;
  well established procedures by which the management of the subsidiaries submit items of major capital expenditure for the
approval of the main board; 
  an ongoing process of reviewing risks faced by the group, along with clear board responsibility for implementing measures to
manage and if possible, reduce these risks. 
The board has also reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the group's system of internal financial control for the financial year and
the period up to the date of approval of the financial statements. The systems which the company has in place for risk management and
financial control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The board has considered the need for an internal audit
function but has decided one is not appropriate at present. The audit committee reviews this decision annually. 
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  18/19
SECTION 1: INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The board recognises that directors' remuneration is of legitimate concern to the shareholders. The remuneration report, as set out below,
will be put to shareholders as a separate resolution for approval at the AGM and the chairman of the remuneration committee, Mr P A
Dickson, will be available at the meeting to answer any questions on the content of this report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The remuneration committee has the responsibility for making recommendations to the board on the company's policy on remuneration
and also specific packages for executive directors and other senior executives. It carries out the policy on behalf of the board. 
The members of the committee are listed on page 17. None of the members of the committee, other than as shareholders, have any
personal financial interest in the matters to be decided, potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships nor any day to day
involvement in running the business. The committee met on five occasions during the year. In carrying out its responsibilities, the
committee has had full regard to the requirements of the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. Meetings of the committee
are normally attended by the executive chairman and chief executive, as appropriate, except where their own remuneration is discussed.
The committee consults the chairman of the company and the chief executive, and has taken professional advice from remuneration
consultants, Messrs Watson Wyatt. The committee commissioned Watson Wyatt to undertake a full review of executive remuneration
throughout the group and has had the benefit of their report in setting remuneration levels for the financial year commencing on 1 June
2004. Watson Wyatt have not carried out any other services for the company during the year.
REMUNERATION POLICY
The policy of the board is to provide terms of employment and remuneration packages for executive directors designed to encourage
the enhancement of the company's performance and to ensure that remuneration packages offered are competitive and will attract,
motivate and retain executive directors of the right calibre, in line with appropriate market rates. 
As well as considering conditions in the group as a whole, the company positions remuneration so that, on average, it is in line with
the median paid for comparable positions amongst companies of similar size. 
CONTRACTS
Mr W G Underwood was re-appointed as a non-executive director on 3 April 2003, for a further three year term at a fee of  25,000
per annum, with provision for twelve months notice of termination. Mr P A Dickson was appointed as a non-executive director on 
1 January 2002 for a three year fixed term at a fee of  20,000 per annum. On 1 July 2004 his fee was increased to  25,000 per
annum to reflect his increased responsibilities as deputy chairman of the company. Mrs S E Nicholson does not have a contract of service
with the company. The company has contracts of service with its executive directors, Messrs Woodcock, Buck, Murray, J W P Nicholson,
D R R Pochin, N J Pochin and Shaw. These contracts provide for twelve months notice of termination.
Directors' Remuneration Report