 18
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
Compliance
The Directors recognise the value of the Principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (previously the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance). Although, as an AIM 
company, compliance with the Code is not required the 
Group has regard to these principals when practicable and 
appropriate for a Group of its size.
The following statement describes how the Group as at 
31 December 2013 sought to address the principles 
underlying the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board composition and responsibility
The Board consists of two Executive Directors and three Non-
Executive Directors. All Directors are equally accountable for 
the proper stewardship of the Group's affairs.
The Board's primary objective is to focus on adding value to 
the assets of the Group by assessing business opportunities 
and ensuring that potential risks are identified, monitored 
and controlled. Matters reserved for Board decisions include 
strategic long-term objectives and capital structure of major 
transactions. The implementation of Board decisions and 
day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to 
management. In making commercial assessments the 
Directors review detailed plans including financial viability 
reports that, among other things, detail the impact of 
proposals in respect of return on capital, return on cash and 
the likely impact on the statement of comprehensive 
income, cash flows and gearing. Strategy is determined 
after having taken due regard of forecast domestic and 
international developments.
Group and divisional budgets and quarterly financial 
forecasts including net assets and cash flow projections are 
formally reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis. In 
addition the Executive Directors monitor cash flows on a 
weekly basis. The Board meets normally at least twelve 
times during the year and holds other ad hoc meetings as 
required. It is responsible to the shareholders of the 
Company for the strategy and future development of the 
Group and the management of its resources. The Board has 
a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for 
decision; other decisions are dealt with as day-to-day 
matters by management. In broad terms, the on-going remit 
of the Board is as follows:
    Approval of the Group's annual budgets and forecasts 
and ongoing review of Group strategy and 
performance;
    Approval of the annual report and any statements 
made therein;
    Approval of any significant changes in accounting 
policies and practices;
    Appointment or removal of directors or the company 
secretary;
    Approval of appointment of senior staff and setting of 
their remuneration;
    Approval of any material expenditure or capital 
commitments;
    Ensure maintenance of robust systems of internal 
control - including all operating and financial systems 
through annual review and assessment;
    Review of the Board's own effectiveness; and
    Ensure continued compliance with any regulatory 
requirements.
Directors are, where necessary, able to obtain independent 
professional advice at the Company's expense and have 
access to the services of the Company Secretary. They are 
given appropriate training and assistance on appointment to 
the Board and later, if and when required.
The Non-Executive Directors have particular responsibility to 
scrutinize and assess the strategy proposed by the executive 
management, to evaluate performance, business risk and the 
integrity of financial information and controls, and to ensure 
appropriate remuneration and succession arrangements are 
put in place for the Executive Directors. Brian Blasdale and 
Raymond McReeve are considered to be independent 
Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of the Code.
Policy on election
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the 
first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and are 
subject to re-election at least every three years thereafter. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term of 
office which provides for their removal in certain 
circumstances, including under section 168 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
The Board does not automatically re-nominate Non-
Executive Directors for election by shareholders. The terms 
of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be 
obtained by request to the Company Secretary.
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 December 2013 19
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2013
Board meetings
Sixteen board meetings were held during the year. The Directors' attendance record during the year is:
 Maximum number of 
 meetings available to Number of meetings 
 be attended attended
Bob Morton  16 12
David Wright 16 16
Gene Golembiewski (appointed 25 July 2013) 6 6
Brian Blasdale 16 12
Raymond McKeeve 16 8
Keith Springall (resigned 21 July 2013) 10 9
Board effectiveness
For the time being, the Board itself considers its 
effectiveness, and that of its committees and Directors, on 
an on-going basis. It considers this appropriate to a 
company of this size.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two Non-Executive 
Directors, Brian Blasdale (Chairman) and Raymond 
McKeeve. The external auditor as well as the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director and other 
finance staff are invited to attend these meetings as and 
when required.
The principal duties of the Committee are to review the 
half-yearly and annual financial statements before their 
submission to the Board and to consider any matters raised 
by the auditors. The Committee also reviews the 
independence and objectivity of the auditors. The terms of 
reference of the Committee reflect current best practice, 
including authority to:
    recommend the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the external auditor;
    ensure the objectivity and independence of the auditors 
including occasions when non-audit services are 
provided; and
    ensure appropriate  whistle-blowing' arrangements are 
in place.
The Audit Committee may seek information from any 
employee of the Group and obtain external professional advice 
at the expense of the Company if considered necessary. Due 
to the relatively low number of personnel employed within the 
Group, the nature of the business and the current control and 
review systems in place, the Board has decided not to 
establish a separate internal audit department.
The Committee also reviews compliance with best practices 
for corporate governance.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee
The Company has established a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration 
and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual 
directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own 
remuneration. The Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee comprises Brian Blasdale (Chairman) and 
Raymond McKeeve. The committee considers the 
employment and performance of individual Executive 
Directors and determines their terms of service and 
remuneration. The Committee meets at least once a year. 
The Committee also evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and considers all 
new Board appointments and re-appointments against this 
evaluation.
Principal risks and uncertainties including 
financial risk management
The principal risks identified by the Directors that may affect 
the Group as well as financial risk management is disclosed 
on page 12 of the Strategic Report.
Internal control and risk
The Directors are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining the Group's system of internal control and 
reviewing its effectiveness. By its nature, such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure  20
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2013
to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Group continually reviews its internal controls and 
procedures and corrective actions taken to mitigate risks are 
identified and implemented where thought necessary.
Shareholder communication
The Board encourages regular dialogue with the Group's 
shareholders and has a policy of making itself available to 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to which all 
shareholders are invited to attend. Additional information is 
supplied during the year through announcements to the 
London Stock Exchange.
The Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director and, 
from time to time, the Chairman or other Directors, meet 
individual and institutional shareholders and provide such 
information as is permissible in order to facilitate a better 
understanding of the Group's business and operations. 
Additionally, the Board usually receives shareholder 
feedback reports prepared by the Nominated Adviser 
following pre-arranged meetings with institutional fund 
managers and analysts.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises that it has a duty to be a good 
corporate citizen and is conscious that its business 
processes minimise harm to the environment and 
contributes as far as is practicable to the local community 
and the Board takes a responsible and positive approach to 
employment practices. 
Bob Morton 
Chairman of the Board
27 May 2014