 As a Company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) the Company is not required to adhere to the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the Code ), published in June 2006. Whilst the Company is not required to comply with the Code, it has
used the Code as best practice guidance and voluntarily presented disclosures that reflect the extent of the Company's application
of the Code.
The Board
The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors. Following the retirement of A. W. Ralley on 30 April 2007, the Board
comprised three Executive and three Non-executive Directors. The Board considers, after careful and rigorous review, that the
Non-executive Directors bring an independent judgement to bear. All Non-executive Directors have contracts which expire on the
completion of one year's notice. These are available for inspection at the Company's registered office and at the Annual General
Meeting. All Directors except for the Chief Executive are subject to retirement by rotation at regular intervals in accordance with
the Company's Articles of Association. Following the principles of the Code the Chief Executive, who was appointed such in 2001,
intends to retire for re-election every third year.
R.J. Steele, the Chairman, is responsible for the running of the Board and L.F. Bryan, the Chief Executive, has executive
responsibility for running the Company's business and implementing Group strategy. Following the appointment of R.J. Steele
as Non-executive Chairman on 30 April 2007, the Board has not appointed a Senior Non-executive Director. The Board believes
that, for a Board of its size, there is sufficient opportunity for shareholders to raise any concerns they may have with the 
Non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director or the other two Non-executive Directors. The Board meets at least 
six times each year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it. It is responsible for overall Group strategy; approval 
of major capital expenditure projects; approval of the annual and interim results; annual budgets; dividend policy; and Board
structure. It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of all trading subsidiaries, their
annual budgets, their performance in relation to those budgets and their capital expenditure.
All Directors receive regular and timely information on the Group's operational and financial performance. Relevant information
is circulated to the Directors in advance of meetings. In addition, minutes of the meetings of the Directors of the main UK
subsidiary are circulated to the Group Board of Directors. All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at
the Company's expense.
The following table shows the attendance of the Directors at meetings of the Board and its principal committees.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Committee Committee Committee
Total meetings held 6321
Meetings attended
R.J. Steele (Non-executive Chairman) 6321
L.F. Bryan (Chief Executive) 6 3* - 1
M. Haynes (Group Sales and Marketing Director) 6 3* - -
Lady Judge (Non-executive) 6321
J. Kong (Non-executive) 6321
B.W.J. Phillips (Group Finance Director) 6 3* - 1*
A.W. Ralley
 
(Executive Chairman) 2 1* 2* 1
Notes:
Attendance is shown as nil if not a committee member.
 
A.W. Ralley was Executive Chairman of the Company until his retirement on 30 April 2007. He was succeeded by R.J. Steele
as Non-executive Chairman.
*Meetings which the Director attended, in whole or in part, by invitation.
Corporate Governance Statement
PORTMEIRION GROUP PLC 19
77223 PRE  8/4/08  20:52  Page 19 Corporate Governance Statement
Continued
During the year the Board carried out an evaluation of its own performance. The evaluation was based on the guidance included
in Suggestions for Good Practice from the Higgs Report. The Board concluded that it had performed effectively. During the year
appropriate appraisals were carried out with the Directors. The Group Finance Director and Group Sales and Marketing Director
were appraised by the Chief Executive who, in turn, was appraised by the Chairman. Additionally, the Chairman appraised the
Non-executive Directors and they appraised the Chairman.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by R.J. Steele and comprises all the Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive. 
It makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. It meets at least once a year and also considers the 
re-election of Directors retiring by rotation. The Company's Articles of Association stipulate that one third of the Directors other
than the Chief Executive or the nearest whole number below one third shall retire each year. The Company requires all Directors
to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by R.J. Steele and comprises all the Non-executive Directors. The Board considers it
appropriate that R.J. Steele with his experience and expertise in this area chairs this committee. The Remuneration Committee
is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to all aspects of remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the presence of the Chief Executive is important in determining the remuneration 
of the other Executive Directors. The Chief Executive does not participate in discussions relating to his personal remuneration. 
In framing its policy the Remuneration Committee takes into account any factors which it deems necessary, including industry
standard executive remuneration, differentials between executive and employee remuneration, and differentials between
executives. When designing schemes of performance-related remuneration the Remuneration Committee considers the provisions
in Schedule A to the Code. The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by R.J. Steele and comprises all the Non-executive Directors. The Board considers it appropriate
that R.J. Steele with his experience and expertise in this area chairs this committee. The Audit Committee meets at least
twice each year. It considers any matter relating to the financial affairs of the Group and to the Group's external audit that it
determines to be desirable. In particular the Committee overviews the monitoring of the adequacy of the Group's internal
controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and provides a forum through which the Group's external auditors report
to the Non-executive Directors.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place throughout
the financial year and has remained in place up to the approval date of the annual report and accounts. That process is regularly
reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance published in October 2005 (the Turnbull Guidance).
The Board intends to keep its risk control procedures under constant review particularly with regard to the need to embed
internal control and risk management procedures further into the operations of business, both in the UK and overseas, and to
deal with areas of improvement which come to management's and the Board's attention.
As might be expected in a group of this size, a key control procedure is the day to day supervision of the business by the
Executive Directors, supported by the senior managers with responsibility for key operations.
The Executive Directors are involved in the budget setting process, constantly monitor key performance indicators and review
management accounts on a monthly basis, noting and investigating major variances. All significant capital expenditure decisions
are approved by the Board as a whole.
20 PORTMEIRION GROUP PLC
77223 PRE  8/4/08  20:52  Page 20 The Group's significant risks, together with the relevant control and monitoring procedures, are subject to regular review to
enable the Board to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The adequacy of internal controls with regard to
the risks identified are reviewed at every Board meeting. The Board has also specifically reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's
internal financial controls. During the course of its reviews the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or
weaknesses which it has determined to be significant. 
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that, because of the size of the Group and
the systems and controls in place, it is not appropriate at present. The Board will review this on a regular basis.
The Group's system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders
The Group encourages two way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds quickly to all
queries received. The Chairman talks regularly with the Group's major shareholders and ensures that their views are communicated
fully to the Board. All shareholders receive notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all Committee chairmen will be
available for questions.
Going concern
Having made appropriate enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the financial statements
have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Corporate Governance Statement
Continued
PORTMEIRION GROUP PLC 21
77223 PRE  8/4/08  20:52  Page 21