 20 I PORTMEIRION GROUP PLC 
Corporate Governance Statement
As a Company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) the Company is not required to adhere to the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance June 2008 (the Code ). Whilst the Company is not required to comply 
with the Code, it has used the Code as best practice guidance and voluntarily presented disclosures that reflect the 
extent of the Company's application of the Code. 
The Board 
The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors. The Board comprises three Executive and three Non-
executive Directors. The Board considers, after careful and rigorous review, that the Non-executive Directors bring 
an independent judgement to bear. All Non-executive Directors have contracts which expire on the completion 
of one year's notice. These are available for inspection at the Company's registered office and at the Annual 
General Meeting. All Directors retire by rotation at the third annual general meeting of the Company after the 
general meeting at which he/she was appointed or last reappointed in accordance with the Company's Articles 
of Association and the principles of the Code. The Board does not believe it is necessary for Non-executive Directors 
of the Company who have served more than nine years to offer themselves for re-election annually. All Directors 
undergo a performance evaluation before being proposed for re-election to ensure their performance continues to 
be effective, that where appropriate they maintain their independence and that they are demonstrating continued 
commitment to the role. 
Richard J. Steele, the Non-executive Chairman, is responsible for the running of the Board and Lawrence F. Bryan, 
the Chief Executive, has executive responsibility for running the Company's business and implementing Group 
strategy. Following the appointment of Richard J. Steele as Non-executive Chairman on 30 April 2007, the Board 
has not appointed a Senior Non-executive Director. The Board believes that, for a Board of its size, there is sufficient 
opportunity for shareholders to raise any concerns they may have with the Non-executive Chairman, Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director or the other two Non-executive Directors. The Board meets at least six times 
each year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it. It is responsible for overall Group strategy; approval 
of major capital expenditure projects; approval of the annual and interim results; annual budgets; dividend policy; 
and Board structure. It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of all trading 
subsidiaries, their annual budgets, their performance in relation to those budgets and their capital expenditure. 
All Directors receive regular and timely information on the Group's operational and financial performance. Relevant 
information is circulated to the Directors in advance of meetings. In addition, minutes of the meetings of the 
Directors of the main UK subsidiary are circulated to the Group Board of Directors. All Directors have direct access 
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense. 
The following table shows the attendance of the Directors at meetings of the Board and its principal committees. 
    Audit  Remuneration Nomination
   Board Committee Committee Committee
Total meetings held   6 4 2 1
Meetings attended 
R.J. Steele (Non-executive Chairman)  6 4 2 1
L.F. Bryan (Chief Executive)   6 4* - 1
M. Haynes (Group Sales and Marketing Director)  6 4* - 1*
Lady Judge (Non-executive)   6 3 2 1
J. Kong (Non-executive)   6 4 2 1
B.W.J. Phillips (Group Finance Director)  6 4* - 1*
Notes 
Attendance is shown as nil if not a committee member.
* Meetings which the Director attended, in whole or in part, by invitation.   PORTMEIRION GROUP PLC I 21
During the year the Board carried out an evaluation of its own performance. The evaluation was based on the 
guidance included in Suggestions for Good Practice from the Higgs Report. The Board concluded that it had 
performed effectively. During the year appropriate appraisals were carried out with the Directors. The Group Finance 
Director and Group Sales and Marketing Director were appraised by the Chief Executive who, in turn, was appraised by 
the Chairman. Additionally, the Chairman appraised the Non-executive Directors and they appraised the Chairman. 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard J. Steele and comprises all the Non-executive Directors and the 
Chief Executive. It makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. It meets at least once a 
year and also considers the re-election of Directors retiring by rotation. The Company's Articles of Association, as 
adopted by Special Resolution passed on 22 May 2009 require that each director shall submit himself/herself for 
re-election every three years. No Directors are exempt from retirement by rotation. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Richard J. Steele and comprises all the Non-executive Directors. 
The Board considers it appropriate that Richard J. Steele with his experience and expertise in this area chairs this 
committee. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation 
to all aspects of remuneration for Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee believes that the presence 
of the Chief Executive is important when determining the remuneration of the other Executive Directors. The 
Chief Executive does not participate in discussions relating to his personal remuneration. In framing its policy the 
Remuneration Committee takes into account any factors which it deems necessary, including industry standard 
executive remuneration, differentials between executive and employee remuneration and differentials between 
executives. When designing schemes of performance-related remuneration the Remuneration Committee considers 
the provisions in Schedule A to the Code. The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the 
Executive Directors. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard J. Steele and comprises all the Non-executive Directors. The Board 
considers it appropriate that Richard J. Steele with his experience and expertise in this area chairs this committee. 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year. It considers any matter relating to the financial affairs of the 
Group and to the Group's external audit that it determines to be desirable. In particular the Committee overviews 
the monitoring of the adequacy of the Group's internal controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and 
provides a forum through which the Group's external auditors report to the Non-executive Directors. 
Internal control 
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in 
place throughout the financial year and has remained in place up to the approval date of the annual report and 
accounts. That process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance published 
in October 2005 (the Turnbull Guidance). 
The Board intends to keep its risk control procedures under constant review particularly with regard to the need to 
embed internal control and risk management procedures further into the operations of business, both in the UK and 
overseas, and to deal with areas of improvement which come to management's and the Board's attention. 
As might be expected in a Group of this size, a key control procedure is the day to day supervision of the business by 
the Executive Directors, supported by the senior managers with responsibility for key operations. 
Corporate Governance Statement continued 22 I PORTMEIRION GROUP PLC 
Corporate Governance Statement continued
The Executive Directors are involved in the budget setting process, constantly monitor key performance indicators 
and review management accounts on a monthly basis, noting and investigating major variances. All significant 
capital expenditure decisions are approved by the Board as a whole. 
The Group's significant risks, together with the relevant control and monitoring procedures, are subject to regular 
review to enable the Board to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The adequacy of internal 
controls with regard to the risks identified are reviewed at every Board meeting. The Board has also specifically 
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal financial controls. During the course of its reviews the Board has 
not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
 
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that, because of the size of
the Group and the systems and controls in place, it is not appropriate at present. The Board will review this on a 
regular basis. 
The Group's system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss. 
Conflicts of Interest
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have put in place a policy and process 
for notifying and recording the nature and extent of their interests, together with those of connected persons, in 
organisations and companies outside the Portmeirion Group. Each director must formally notify the Company if there 
is the potential for these interests to conflict with their duties as a Director of the Company. All such notifications are 
regularly reviewed by the Board. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Group encourages two way communications with both its institutional and private investors and responds quickly 
to all queries received. The Chairman talks regularly with the Group's major shareholders and ensures that their views 
are communicated fully to the Board. All shareholders receive notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the 
chairmen of all Committees will be available for questions.