 Although the Group is not governed by the
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the
Directors have given consideration to the
Combined Code 2006 and have applied its
principles where appropriate for the limited
size of the Group and its position as
described below.
The Board and its committees
The Board
The composition of the Board is set out on
page 16. The Board comprises a Non
Executive Chairman, plus up to three
Executive Directors and up to four further
Non Executive Directors. The Board meets
regularly and has a formal schedule of
matters which are reserved for its decision. It
has delegated specific responsibilities to the
Remuneration and Audit Committees which
have specific terms of reference approved by
the Board. Board and Committee papers are
circulated in advance of each meeting and are
supplemented by reports and presentations
so that all Directors are fully briefed and
provided with the information they need. All
Directors may take independent professional
advice in furtherance of their duties at the
Company's expense.
The primary function of the Board is to set
Group strategy and to oversee the effective
implementation of that strategy. The Board
meets regularly throughout the year with an
established agenda of items dealing with
important aspects of the Group's affairs
including monitoring strategy, approving
acquisitions and disposals, management
performance, major capital and development
expenditure, approving budgets and
significant financing matters. The Board
monitors exposures to key business risks
and reviews business performance against
strategic and budgetary goals and
development programmes. The Board also
considers employee issues, key appointments
and reporting to shareholders.
Details of the Directors' service contracts are
given in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Non Executive Directors are retired by
rotation in accordance with the Company's
Articles of Association.
Division of responsibilities
The Board structure provides demonstrable
separation of executive responsibility for
running the business and responsibility for
running the Board. This structure ensures
there is appropriate accountability to the
Board and helps safeguard the independence
and objectivity of the Board. The Board has
delegated specific responsibilities to two
principal Committees, each of which has
written terms of reference. In line with best
practice, the terms of reference of the
following committees have been the subject
of review within the last 12 months.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Geoff Probert
(Chairman) and Paul Hewitt. Previously, 
John O'Connell was Chairman of the Audit
Committee until his retirement on 28
February 2009. The role of the Audit
Committee is key both to ensuring that a
sound system of internal control is
maintained within the Group and to ensuring
that Portrait Software plc presents (and its
policies support) a balanced, clear and
understandable assessment of its position
and prospects. The Audit Committee meets
twice a year and more frequently if required. 
The Committee examines the process of
financial reporting within the Group. It reviews
annually the adequacy of the Group's system
of internal controls and the processes for
monitoring and evaluating the risks facing
the Group. The Committee reviews the scope
and results of the audit, as well as the fees
of the auditors for both audit and non-audit
services. The Committee is authorised to
seek information from any member of the
Group and to obtain external professional
advice if it considers it necessary. The
Committee also reviews the interim and
annual results and the annual report and
financial statements, prior to their submission
to the Board and ensures an appropriate
relationship is maintained between the
Group and its external auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises
Felda Hardymon (Chairman) and Geoff
Probert and meets periodically as required.
Previously John O'Connell also served on the
Remuneration Committee until his retirement
on 28 February 2009. The role of the
Committee is to approve terms of service,
agree the remuneration of the Executive
Directors and to determine the allocation 
of share options within the terms of a
remuneration policy which is approved
annually by the Board. 
Nominations Committee
In view of the size of the Board, the
appointment of new Directors is considered
by the Board as a whole, accordingly there is
no permanent Nominations Committee. 
Shareholder communication
The Company encourages two-way
communication with both institutional and
private investors and endeavours to respond
promptly to queries received. The Group's
website (www.portraitsoftware.com) provides
detailed financial and business information
about the Group. It is the policy of the
Company to ensure that all our market
announcements are made immediately
available to all our shareholders via the
medium of the internet. 
Meetings between Directors, designated
senior management, institutional shareholders
and other market professionals are held
regularly in accordance with the Company's
investor management programme and
always follow the terms of the Company's
Market Communications Policy. 
Shareholders attending the AGM are invited
to ask questions during the meeting and to
meet the Directors and other members of
senior management after the formal
proceedings have ended. 
Corporate Governance Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2009
Portrait Software plc 19
Portrait AR 09_Artwork  29/7/09  15:42  Page 19 Internal controls
The Board attaches considerable importance
to the Group's systems of internal control
and risk management with specific emphasis
in the areas of financial, legal, commercial
and compliance risk.
These procedures include financial,
operational and compliance controls as 
well as risk management, which accord 
with the criteria contained in the Internal
Control Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code published by the ICAEW
in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing
its effectiveness. Such a system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and
can only provide reasonable assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board delegates day to day responsibility
for internal control and risk issues to the Chief
Executive Officer who conducts meetings with
his senior management team on a regular
basis. In these management meetings the
exposures to financial, operational and
compliance risks are identified, reported on,
assessed and controlled. 
The Audit Committee is also responsible 
for reviewing the ongoing financial and
compliance control procedures. The Board
reviews the effectiveness of the systems of
internal control and risk management on a
continuing basis by:
  Considering Group strategy and approving
an annual budget based on that strategy
and medium-term projections. Core to this
process is the review of the risks and
opportunities facing the Group undertaken
on a continuing basis.
  Regularly reviewing operational
performance and updated forecasts.
  Retaining primary responsibility for
acquisition and divestment policy, the
approval of major capital expenditure and
financing arrangements. Below Board level
there are clearly defined management
authority limitations for the approval of
capital expenditure, Human Resource
actions, significant contracts, investments,
acquisitions and divestments.
  Receiving reports on environmental, social,
ethical and health and safety matters as
they relate to the Group's operations.
  Receiving regular reports from the Audit
Committee as to whether the systems of
internal control and risk management are
operating effectively.
These procedures have been in place since
the start of the accounting period, have
been reviewed and improved to enhance
their effectiveness during the year, and have
remained in place up to the date of approval
of the annual report.
The Board acknowledges that companies
without an internal audit function should,
from time to time, review the need to
establish one. At present the Board and the
Audit Committee feel that current internal
controls are adequate to meet the needs of
the business and, while constantly reviewing
controls in all areas, will consider the need
for an internal audit function as the Group
continues to develop.
Business and environmental ethics
The Board requires that its employees
comply with the laws and standards of
conduct of the countries in which it does
business. The Directors and employees are
all required to avoid personal conflicts of
interest regarding company business.
In complying with the Public Interest
Disclosure Act 1998 in the United Kingdom,
the Group has established a procedure
enabling employees to bring matters to the
attention of an appropriate manager outside
of their own department in the event that
they do not feel able to approach their local
line management.
The Board recognises that it is important,
both for its employees and the communities
in which it operates, that the Group
maintains high standards of health and
safety and takes effective measures to
ensure that its activities do not damage the
environment.
In particular the Group recognises the
responsibility it has toward the environment.
The Group Environmental Policy addresses
compliance with environmental legislation,
conformity with standards for air, waste
disposal and noise, the economical use of
materials and the establishment of
environmental performance standards.
Having offices worldwide, the Group is
conscious of its total energy consumption
and is actively working to reduce energy
usage by the establishment of an Energy
Watch Committee with representatives from
throughout the Group. The Group has also
initiated a series of programmes across all
locations targeted at taking practical
measures to reduce our impact on the
environment. These include alternative
transport and car sharing schemes,
encouragement of nature conservation
programmes at our UK headquarters, waste
reduction and recycling initiatives and
measures to reduce air travel. Our
employees have embraced these
programmes with enthusiasm and we plan
to extend our efforts to reduce our impact on
the environment even further during the
forthcoming year.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have
formed a judgement, at the time of
approving the financial statements, that
there is a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason the Directors continue
to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2009
20 Portrait Software plc
Portrait AR 09_Artwork  29/7/09  15:42  Page 20