 Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
25
Corporate governance
Compliance
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company
has complied with the provisions of the 2006
Combined Code on Corporate Governance
throughout the year except where explicitly
set out below.
Board of Directors
The Board consists of five Directors; two Executive
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. The
Board is chaired by Charles Matthews. Ben Stocks
is the Group Chief Executive and Christopher Tyler
is the Group Finance Director. Michael Gatenby,
Charles Matthews and Andrew Walker are
independent Non-Executive Directors. Michael
Gatenby is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Board considers that Charles Matthews
continues to be an independent Non-Executive
Director after his appointment as Chairman.
The Board has a fixed schedule for reviewing the
Group's operating performance and has other
specific responsibilities reserved to it, which include:
  Approval of the published financial results and
dividends;
  Appointments to the Board and other Board
committees;
  Approval of the strategic direction of the business;
  Approval of expenditure over certain limits;
  Approval for acquisitions and disposals;
  Approval of treasury policy and significant new
financing;
  Approval of the funding policies of the defined
benefit pension scheme.
The Executive Directors manage the day to day
operations of the business within the framework set
out by the Board. Outside the formal schedule of
Board meetings the Chairman and Non-Executive
Directors make themselves available for consultation
with the Executive team as necessary.
Procedural compliance is monitored by the
Company Secretary and the Directors' appointment
and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Independent professional advice and training are
available to all the Directors. The Senior
Non-Executive Director, Michael Gatenby, is
available for consultation with shareholders through
the Company Secretary, by written submission.
None of the Company's major shareholders has
asked for a meeting with the Non-Executive
Directors in the period under review; however the
Executive Directors have met with the Company's
major shareholders and other potential investors on
a regular basis and have reported to the Board on
those meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors' terms of appointment
do not specify a specific period for their appointment
and therefore the terms are not in compliance with
provision B.1.6 of the Code; however in accordance
with the Articles of Association, one third of the
Directors who have served throughout the year
retire by rotation each year and, if eligible, may offer
themselves for re-election at the Annual General
Meeting. All newly appointed Directors offer
themselves for election at the first Annual General
Meeting following their appointment.
On joining the Board a new Director receives
appropriate induction including meeting with other
Directors, visiting the Group's principal operations
and meeting with senior management and the
Group's principal advisers.
The Board has put in place a procedure by which
any Director may take independent professional
advice at the expense of the Company, in
furtherance of his duties as a Director of the
Company.
The Company maintains Directors' and Officers'
liability insurance.
The Board has a schedule of six pre-arranged
meetings during the year. In addition such other
meetings as are required are arranged to deal with
specific issues or transactions. During the year there
was full attendance at all pre-arranged Board
meetings.
The Board undertook a rigorous self assessment
review during the year to consider its own
performance. The Senior Non-Executive Director
maintains regular contact with the other
Independent Non-Executive Directors and the
Executive Directors, sufficient to monitor the
performance of the Chairman.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises all of
the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the
Company. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is
Michael Gatenby. The Committee includes Charles
Matthews, the Chairman of the Company. The Board
takes the view that Charles Matthews is an
Independent Non-Executive Director and considers
that it is appropriate for the Audit Committee to
comprise all three Independent Non-Executive
Directors.
The Audit Committee has a formal timetable
of meetings. Representatives of the Company's
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, attend
meetings by invitation. Other employees of the
Company may be invited to attend meetings as
and when required. Corporate governance continued
Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
26
The Board considers that all members of the
Committee have recent and relevant financial
experience to enable it to discharge its function.
The Committee has a formal agenda, timetable and
terms of reference. During the course of the period
under review it has:
  Reviewed the financial statements of the Company
and any formal announcements relating to the
Company's financial performance prior to
announcement.
  Monitored the Company's internal financial
controls and the Company's internal control and
risk management systems and ensured that these
are properly reviewed by the Group's
management.
  Reviewed the scope of the work done by the
Group Internal auditor in reviewing the operating
companies' internal controls and procedures.
  Made recommendations to the Board in relation
to the appointment of the external auditor and
approved the remuneration and terms of
engagement of the external auditor.
  Monitored the external auditor's independence
and objectivity.
  Reviewed arrangements by which staff of the
Company may raise concerns about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting
or other matters.
The Committee's full terms of reference are
available on the Group's website www.porvair.com.
The Audit Committee has set a policy which is
intended to maintain the independence of the
Company's auditors when acting as auditor of the
Group accounts. The policy governs the provision of
audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor
and, in summary, requires significant non-audit
services other than routine tax compliance services
to be subjected to a competitive tendering process.
The Committee is authorised to engage the services
of external advisers, as it deems necessary, at the
Company's expense in order to carry out its function.
The Audit Committee met three times during the
year. There was full attendance by its members.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines and
recommends to the Board the framework or broad
policy for the remuneration and long term incentive
arrangements of the Company's Executive Directors.
The Committee's full terms of reference are
available on the Group's website www.porvair.com.
The Committee comprises all of the independent
Non-executive Directors of the Company. Andrew
Walker is the Chairman of the Committee. The
Group Chief Executive may be invited to attend and
speak at meetings of the Committee, but does not
participate in any matter which impacts upon his
own remuneration arrangements. The remuneration
of the Non-Executive Directors, including the
Chairman, is set by the Executive Directors.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee on
pages 21 to 24 includes details on remuneration
policy, practices and the remuneration of the
Directors.
The Remuneration Committee met twice during the
year and was fully attended by all of its members.
Nomination Committee
The Company has established a Nomination
Committee, which provides a transparent process
and procedure for the appointment of new Directors
to the Board. The Committee comprises all of the
Non-Executive Directors. The Committee is chaired
by the Chairman of the Company. The Committee's
terms of reference, which are available from the
Company Secretary on request, include:
  Being responsible for identifying and nominating
candidates to fill Board vacancies;
  Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and
experience on the Board and the leadership needs
of the organisation;
  Succession planning.
Any Director appointed since the last AGM is
required, under the Company's Articles of
Association, to retire and seek election by the
shareholders at the next AGM.
The terms of reference for the appointment of the
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection
from the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee did not meet during
the year, however the Group's leadership and
succession planning was considered in a meeting
of the full Board.
Internal control
The Turnbull Report issued in 2005 gives guidance
for directors on reviewing internal controls and
reporting. The Company has complied in full
throughout the year, and up to the date the
financial statements were approved, with the
recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that
the Group maintains a system of internal control.
The system is not designed to eliminate the risk
that the Group's objectives will not be achieved but
to ensure that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks.
As with any such system, it can only provide
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss. The Board has
reviewed the effectiveness of the process regularly
throughout the year. The Group's key procedures are
as follows: Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
27
Control environment - each operating business has
its own management group which meets regularly
to monitor operational matters. The Managing
Director of each operating business reports to the
Group Chief Executive, and clearly defined lines of
responsibility have been established within this
organisational structure. The Executive Directors
visit all operations regularly to perform detailed
reviews.
Risk management - operating business management
have a clear responsibility for the identification of
risks facing each operation, and for establishing
procedures to investigate and monitor such risks.
The Board also commissions independent reviews of
the key risks facing the Group as appropriate.
Information and control systems - each operating
business maintains its own internal systems and
controls designed to provide management with
regular and reliable management information.
The Group has a comprehensive process of annual
budgets and detailed monthly reporting. The
annual budget of each operating business and the
consolidated Group budget are approved by the
Board as part of its normal responsibilities.
Monitoring system - the Board has established a
framework of controls encompassing procedures
applicable to all businesses that are subject to
executive review. The Group operates a self-
assessment process so that the operating businesses
can quantify the extent of their compliance with
control objectives. This process is monitored by the
Group's internal auditor and the Group Finance
Director. The Group has a formal whistle blowing
procedure which gives employees the opportunity
to escalate their concerns, ultimately to the Senior
Non-Executive Director.
The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed
the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls for
the year 1 December 2007 to 30 November 2008.
Christopher Tyler, Company Secretary
26 January 2009