 The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the Group. The Board is accountable to the Company's
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the
principles identified in the Combined Code are applied by the Company.
The Board confirms that the Company now complies with all of the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
After the end of the accounting period the Board nominated the Company's
Deputy Chairman as the senior independent Non-Executive Director. The
Company's Remuneration Committee composition has complied with the
Combined Code since Mr Mandel's retirement from the Board and the
Committee in June 2002.
Directors
The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, five other
Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. All of the Non-
Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 27. These indicate
the high level and broad range of experience that they possess.
Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is constantly kept
under review and provided where necessary.
The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the
Group through the development of a strategy designed to create
shareholder value. The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis
and exercises control over the performance of each operating company
within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring
performance against those targets.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and
clearly defined. The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive
management of the Group's business while the Chairman, who has no
executive management responsibilities, runs the Board.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as required.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including
major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals and
treasury policy. In certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to
committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The principal terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations
and Organisation and Management Development Committees are set out
on page 47. The membership of the Committees appears on page 27.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice at the Company's expense if necessary in the
performance of their duties. This is in addition to the access which every
Director has to the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is
charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to discharge
their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of
papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion
documents regarding specific matters. In addition, individual Directors
meet with senior management and are encouraged to make periodic site
visits, including overseas where appropriate. Senior managers are regularly
invited to Board meetings and make business presentations.
Potential appointments of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors
to the Board are considered by the Nominations Committee. The
Nominations Committee consults with Executive Directors when
considering appointments and a range of candidates is considered before
any appointment is made. The Remuneration Committee will consider any
remuneration package before it is offered to a potential appointee.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions
of the Company's articles of association, to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The articles also require
that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every three
years.
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement of the Company's
remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing on
pages 40 to 45.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at
full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where
the recommendations have a direct bearing on his own remuneration
package. The details of each Executive Director's individual package are
fixed by the Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Communication with Stakeholders
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with
its stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well
as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results. In 1999,
the Company introduced quarterly financial reporting in order to improve
the level of information available to all shareholders. All Company
announcements are published on the Company's web-site, together with
presentation material.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the
Company's Annual General Meeting and the Group Chief Executive
makes a business presentation summarising the progress of the Group
Premier Farnell plc Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
46
Corporate Governance during the year. The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees are available to take questions at the meeting.
As discussed in the Directors' Report, employee communication is given
high priority. This has included the establishment of a European Works
Council.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Audit and Internal Control
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the
Group's financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting
procedures. In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and reviews work
carried out by the internal and external auditors and their findings. The
Company's internal audit department works to an annual programme
developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as covering specific
matters arising during the year.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the
internal and external audit functions under review. The independence and
objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis,
with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees. The split between
audit and non-audit fees for the year to 2nd February 2003 and
information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred appear in note 4
to the Financial Statements. The non-audit fees were paid principally in
respect of assurance work (including taxation) and are considered by the
Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors.
The Committee has recently resolved that the external auditors'
appointment will be subject to biannual review. The senior audit partner at
the Group's external auditors is rotated every five years. During the year
the Committee also adopted a formal policy on the provision of non-audit
services by the auditors. This policy prohibits the provision of certain
services and requires that others are subject to prior approval.
Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the
Combined Code provisions on internal control.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal
controls and risk management. The Audit Committee reviews and
monitors the system's effectiveness on behalf of the Board, while
responsibility for the system rests with the Executive Directors. The system
includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
significant business risks. However, any system can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control
objectives.
The Company is subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002 as they apply to foreign private issuers. This US legislation requires,
amongst other things, annual certifications to be included within, or
attached to, the Company's annual report on Form 20-F , which is filed
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. As part of the process
for ensuring that such certifications can be made, a new executive
management committee, the Disclosure and Risk Committee, has been
formed. The Disclosure and Risk Committee has subsumed within its
terms of reference the functions previously carried out by the Risk
Committee, as well as taking responsibility for reviewing disclosures made
by the Company to regulators and the investment community. As part of
this expanded role, the Disclosure and Risk Committee monitors and
reviews disclosure and risk management processes and reports to the
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee considers these reports,
alongside other reports from the internal audit department and the
external auditors, to arrive at a balanced assessment of control
effectiveness across the Group.
The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so that the
Board can reach its own informed view on control effectiveness.
The statement of the Directors' responsibility in relation to the accounts
appears on page 74.
Summary Terms of Reference of Board Committees
- Audit
Review the Company's financial and other systems and controls and
the Company's financial reporting.
- Remuneration
Make recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework of
executive remuneration. Determine remuneration packages for
Executive Directors and other Senior executives.
- Nominations
Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors.
Keep the composition of the Board under review.
- Organisation and Management Development
Review the Group's policies for ensuring that its management resource
at senior levels across the Group and the organisation and development
of such resource are compatible with the longer term needs of the
Group.
Premier Farnell plc Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
47