 16
Corporate governance
Compliance
The Company has established procedures and policies to ensure compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance laid out in the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules. The Company has complied with these provisions for
the entire reporting period except to the extent specified below.
The Board
The Board of Directors held seven full board meetings and two meetings of the independent directors in 2002. The Board retains full and
effective control over the Group and monitors executive management. It is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment
policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, corporate overhead costs and consideration of significant financing matters. No one
individual has unfettered powers of decision. The Chairman's role is non-executive and during 2002 the Chief Executive was supported by two
experienced executive directors responsible for operations, development, production, finance and investor relations. The Board has a further
nine non-executive directors with wide experience in commerce, as can be seen from their career histories in this report. In compliance with the
Combined Code, Mr J R W Orange, who is Chairman of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, is identified as the Company's senior
independent non-executive director. Matters reserved for Board decision are clearly laid down, including the appointment of the Company
Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and rules are applied. Formal procedures are in place to enable individual
Board members to take independent advice where appropriate. Details of the executive directors' service contracts are laid out on page 22.
Re-election of directors
In accordance with the Company's Memorandum and Articles of Association one third of directors retire each year, with their re-appointment
being subject to the approval of shareholders. This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years, in addition
any director of the age of 70 or over who would not otherwise be required to retire, must retire by rotation.
The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources including key appointments
and standards of conduct. Non-executive directors comprise over one half of the Board. Of these, Sir David John, Messrs S J Dobbie, 
R V Emerson, I Gray and J R W Orange are considered to be wholly independent. Whilst the other non-executive directors, as a result of
receiving consultancy fees from the Company or their relationship to a shareholder, might be considered not strictly to fall within this definition,
the Board considers that this is outweighed by the range of experience and contribution they make to the Company. Selection of suitable non-
executive directors is a matter for Board approval following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
Board committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which has formal terms of
reference approved by the Board.
An objective and professional relationship is maintained with the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP . The Audit Committee, comprising only the 
non-executive directors, meets three times a year for a detailed review of the Group's accounts and its internal controls. Its members are 
Mr J R W Orange (Chairman), Messrs M A K Alizai, J B Collins II, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray, Sir David John and Dato' Mohamad
Idris Mansor.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least three times a year and determines the remuneration of the executive directors and senior
employees. Its members are Mr J R W Orange (Chairman), Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray and Sir David John. Full details of the
directors' remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 27.
The Nomination Committee has been established to consider the composition of the Board in relation to the appointment of new directors.
Its members are Sir David John (Chairman), Messrs C J A Jamieson and J R W Orange. It did not meet during 2002.
The make up of members of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the Combined
Code recommendation.
Internal control
The directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the Group's system of internal control. Internal control systems in
any group are designed to meet the particular needs of that group and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures which the directors have established with
aview to providing effective internal control are as follows:
Management of Business Risks - an ongoing process, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, has been established for identifying, evaluating
and managing risks faced by the Group. This is based on each business unit and corporate function producing a risk matrix which identifies the
key business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the
desired level. 17
The directors receive assurance directly from the business units and functional management through the completion of annual declarations
confirming compliance with the Group's policies and procedures and risk management processes.
Premier has adopted a consistent framework model for application across the Group and an annual report is produced on compliance with that
model and with the group risk management process. The report is presented to the Audit Committee.
Monitoring - A comprehensive control manual is in force which regulates a wide range of day to day activities both in the UK and overseas
offices including environmental controls, health and safety regulations and political risks. The application of internal control procedures is
reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by head office staff. Audits are carried out by partners in joint ventures from time to time.
A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the Group. This process is designed to provide assurance
to the Board that the Company is embedding effective risk management into its operations. The report of each review is presented to the
Audit Committee.
During 2002 the key business risks identified were formally discussed by the Group Executive Committee on a semi-annual basis. This process
will continue during 2003.
The Board will receive regular reports on any major problems that have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Management Structure - The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for
decision by the Board. Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs. The executive directors
together with key senior executives constitute the Executive Committee which normally meets weekly.
Corporate Accounting - Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of corporate accounting and an authorisation
manual which sets out, inter alia, authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel - The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent
training courses.
Budgetary Process - There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board covering capital expenditure,
cash flow, the profit and loss account and balance sheet. Monthly results are reported against budget, and revised forecasts for the year are
prepared regularly.
Investment Appraisal - The Group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure. These include authority levels, commitment records
and reporting, annual budget and detailed appraisal and review procedures. The authority of the directors is required for key treasury matters
including changes to equity and loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy including hedging, oil price hedging, cheque signatories
and opening of bank accounts. Comprehensive due diligence work is carried out if a business or an asset is to be acquired.
During 2002, the Board reviewed the Group's system of internal control and is satisfied that all the controls in place are adequate to provide
reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss. The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes are made to internal
control systems to capture any new risks or exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the business environment.
Going concern
After making enquiries and in the light of the Group's loan facilities, the Group budget for 2003 and the medium-term plans, the directors have
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future. The going concern basis for
the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
Communication with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given significant attention. Extensive information about the Group's activities is provided in the Annual
Report & Accounts and the Interim Report which are sent to shareholders. The Company has also produced a separate corporate brochure in
2002 and 2003 highlighting Premier's capabilities and business principles, both documents are available to all shareholders. There is regular
dialogue with institutional investors, and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the Group are
welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress
of the Group. The Company also maintains a website (www.premier-oil.com) which provides detailed information on the Group's activities. 