 PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company's board of Directors appreciates the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk 
management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity. It believes that corporate governance involves more than a simple box 
ticking  approach to establish whether a company has met the requirements of a number of specifi c rules and regulations. Rather the issue is 
one of applying corporate governance principles (including those set out in the Corporate Governance Guidelines for AIM companies published 
by the Quoted Companies' Alliance in February 2007) in a sensible and pragmatic fashion having regard to the individual circumstances of the 
Group's business. The key objective is to enhance and protect shareholder value. 
BOARD STRUCTURE 
During the year the Board comprised R G Hardie (Chairman (Non-Executive Director)), A Rafferty (Chief Executive), A Q Roberts (Finance 
Director), P R Gunning (Operations Director) and L A Wheatley (Non-Executive Director). 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of 
the accounts is set out on page 30. The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the 
Executive Directors are fully considered. The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free 
of any relationship, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. R G Hardie owns shares in the Group 
however the Board does not consider this to bias his independence. All Non-executives receive a fi xed fee for their services. 
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and there is a procedure for all 
Directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Group. The Board has 
a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at least 10 times a year. It is responsible for overall Group strategy, approval of major 
capital expenditure projects and consideration of signifi cant fi nancing matters. 
The differing roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged and defi ned in separate statements approved by the Board. The key 
functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings and meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed 
in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions. The Chief Executive is required to develop and lead business strategies and 
processes to enable the Company's business to meet the requirements of its shareholders.
BOARD COMMITTEES 
The following Committees, which have written terms of reference, deal with specifi c aspects of the Group's affairs: 
  The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework of Executive 
remuneration and its cost. The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefi ts for each of the Executive 
Directors, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The Board itself determines the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. The Committee comprises R G Hardie and L A Wheatley. It is chaired by R G Hardie and 
meets at least once a year. The Report on the Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 28 & 29.
  The Audit Committee comprises R G Hardie and L A Wheatley and is chaired by L A Wheatley. Its prime tasks are to review the scope of 
external audit, to receive regular reports from the auditors, and to review the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to 
the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and areas of management judgment and estimation. The Committee is responsible 
for monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The Committee 
acts as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and contributes to the Board's review of the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
control and risk management systems and processes. It meets at least twice a year including immediately before the submission of the 
annual and interim fi nancial statements to the Board.
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year which includes:
  A review of the non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees;
  Discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence;
  A review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit fi rm and partners and staff involved in the audit, 
including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
  Obtaining written confi rmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
26 PRINTING.COM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit fi rm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in Note 3 to 
the fi nancial statements.
The Audit Commitee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work, 
and discusses the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors. It reviews and monitors the independence of the auditors especially 
with regard to non audit work. 
Any new Non-executive Directors will be asked to join both Committees.
No formal Nomination Committee exists in view of the stage of growth of the Group. Instead, appointments to the Board are considered by 
the Chief Executive and other executive directors, and discussed with the non executive directors. Appointments are made after an evaluation 
of the skills, knowledge and expertise required to ensure that the Board as a whole has the ability to ensure that the Group can continue to 
compete effectively in its market place. 
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control, which is designed to meet the particular needs 
of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed. Such a system is designed to manage these risks, to provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss and to maintain proper accounting records to ensure the integrity of the fi nancial information 
used within the business and for external publication.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it operated during the period. The Board has considered whether 
the Group's internal controls processes would be signifi cantly enhanced by an internal audit function and has taken the view that at the 
Group's current stage of development, this is not required. The Board will continue to review this matter each year. The key elements of the 
control system in operation are: 
  The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in place an organisational structure 
with clear lines of responsibility defi ned and with appropriate delegation of authority; 
  The Group has an Operations Manual containing written procedures for approval, managing and monitoring of sales, purchases, payroll 
and capital expenditure;
  The Group also has information systems for monitoring its fi nancial performance against approved budgets and forecasts.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors on a regular basis and from executive directors of the Group. The Board 
receives periodic reports from all Committees.
There are no signifi cant issues disclosed in the report and fi nancial statements for the fi nancial year ended 2 April 2007 and up to the date of 
approval of the report and fi nancial statements that have required the Board to deal with any related material internal control issues.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The Board recognises the importance of dialogue with both institutional and private investors. Effective two-way communication with fund 
managers, institutional investors and analysts is actively pursued and this encompasses issues such as performance, policy and strategy. During 
the year the Directors have had meetings with analysts and institutions and will continue to do so.
There is also an opportunity, at the Company's Annual General Meeting for individual shareholders to raise general business matters with the 
full Board and notice of the Company's Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting. 
The Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
The Annual Report is to be published on the Company's website, www.printing.com which also includes previous fi nancial reports and other 
announcements made during the year.
GOING CONCERN 
The Directors confi rm that they are satisfi ed that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the fi nancial statements. 
27