 Progressive Digital Media Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 
Corporate Governance Report
PDMG is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The paragraphs below, and in the Remuneration Report on pages 13 to 14 
describe how the Board has voluntarily applied the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 ( the Code') issued by the 
Financial Services Authority. The Code is part of the listing rules as issued by the Financial Services Authority. The Company has substantially 
complied with the provisions of the Code, except where the Board has determined that they are inappropriate to the particular circumstances 
of the Company.
The Board
The Company is led by the Board, which is made up of two executive directors and four non-executive directors. The Chairman of the 
Board is Mike Danson who has been Chairman since the reverse acquisition in June 2009. The Board has identified Bernard Cragg as the 
senior independent non-executive director. The non-executive directors' shareholdings are detailed in the Directors' Report. The Board has 
determined that all the non-executive directors are independent and that their shareholding in the Company does not affect their independence. 
In 2012, the Board met 12 times during the year and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the consideration of the Board. The 
Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group. The Board sets and monitors the Group strategy, reviewing 
trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining development possibilities and formulating policy on key issues. The Board is also 
responsible for the monitoring of the risk and control environment.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and, together with the Board members, determining the strategy of the Group. The 
Managing Director is responsible for the running of the Group's businesses. 
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive directors in order to discuss performance of the Board, its 
committees and individual directors. 
All directors are required to stand for re-election every year. The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are 
available for inspection at our registered office.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Board and its committees are supplied with papers to enable them to consider matters in good time 
for meetings and to enable them to discharge their duties. Procedures are in place for the directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary at the company's expense, as required under the Code.
The Board has established audit and remuneration committees with mandates to deal with specific aspects of its business. The table below 
details the membership and attendance of individual directors at Board and committee meetings held during the year ended 31 December 
2012.
Board meetings during the year:
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Number of meetings 12 4 1
Peter Harkness 12 4 1
Bernard Cragg 12 4 1
Mark Freebairn 9 4 1
Kelsey van Musschenbroek 11 n/a n/a
Mike Danson 12 n/a n/a
Simon Pyper  12 n/a n/a
Mark Meek 6 n/a n/a
Stephen Bradley 3 n/a n/a
Mark Meek resigned from the Board on 1 August 2012. Stephen Bradley resigned from the board on 27 February 2012 but has continued in 
his role as Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman Mark Freebairn, Peter Harkness and Bernard Cragg. The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for determining the service contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors, details of which are set out 
in the Remuneration Report. The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available for inspection on request.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Chairman Bernard Cragg, Peter Harkness and Mark Freebairn. Bernard Cragg is a Chartered Accountant 
with considerable financial and varied commercial experience. The committee met four times in the year with the external auditors in 
attendance. The committee is responsible for reviewing the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts and it oversees the controls 
necessary to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders. The Audit Committee discusses the nature, scope and 
findings of the audit with the external auditors, and monitors the independence of the external auditors. The committee is also responsible 
for considering the appointment or re-appointment of external auditors and the audit fee. The terms for the Audit Committee are available for 
inspection on request.  Progressive Digital Media Group Plc
Annual Reports and Accounts 2012 12 
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities through receiving reports from management and advisers, working closely with the 
auditors, carrying out and reviewing risk assessment and taking counsel where appropriate in areas when required to make a judgement.
The Audit Committee has considered the need for a separate internal audit function but due to the size of the Group and procedures in place 
to monitor both trading performance and internal controls, it was concluded the costs of a separate internal audit department would outweigh 
the benefits.
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined that non-audit work will not be offered to the external 
auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benefits to the Group. The Audit Committee annually reviews the remuneration 
received by the auditors for audit services and non-audit work. The outcome of this review was that the performance of this work by the 
auditors was the most cost effective and also that no conflict existed between such audit and non-audit work.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness. However, such a system 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Under the Code there is a requirement that the directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls.  This extends 
the existing requirement in respect of internal financial controls to cover all controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management. A formal risk review was conducted in 2011 and will be reviewed at regular intervals.
The key controls in place have been reviewed by the Board and comprise the following:
    The preparation of comprehensive annual budgets and business plans integrating both financial and operational performance objectives 
and plans, with an assessment of the associated business and financial risks, for each area of the business. The overall Group budget and 
business plan is subject to approval by the Board.
    Weekly revenue reports are produced and reviewed by management.
    Monthly management accounts are prepared for each business unit and reviewed by the Board. This includes reporting against key 
performance indicators and exception reporting.
    An organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility. Authorisation limits have been set throughout the Group. 
 
Shareholder relationships
The Company operates a corporate website at www.progressivedigitalmedia.com where information is available to potential investors and 
shareholders. 
The Board will use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with shareholders and seek their participation. The Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting will be circulated more than 21 working days prior to the meeting. 
Health and safety
It is the policy of the Group to conduct all business activities in a responsible manner, free from recognised hazards and to respect the 
environment, health and safety of our employees, customers, suppliers, partners, neighbours and the community at large.
Going concern
As highlighted in note 18 to the financial statements the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements from an overdraft facility 
of  3 million none of which was utilised as at 31 December 2012. Based on cash flow projections the Group considers the existing financing 
facilities to be adequate to meet short-term commitments. 
In October 2011, the Group refinanced its debt position. A  6 million term loan and a  6 million revolving capital facility were issued by The 
Royal Bank of Scotland. 
As part of the Placing (discussed in note 22)  4 million of the term loan was repaid to The Royal Bank of Scotland, pursuant to the banking 
agreement, and  1.5 million was repaid in accordance with the original repayment terms. As at 31 December 2012,  0.5 million of the term 
loan and  6 million of the revolving capital facility were outstanding.  0.5 million of the term loan is due for repayment in October 2013 and as 
such has been classified as a short term liability. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that there are no material uncertainties that cast significant doubt about the Group's ability to 
continue as a going concern. Accordingly, the Group has prepared the annual report and financial statements on a going concern basis. 
On behalf of the Board
Simon Pyper
Managing Director
25 February 2013