 Corporate Governance
Proximagen Group plc fully supports the principles of the UK
Corporate Governance Code (the Code ). As an AIM-listed
company, it is not required to comply in full with the Code but it
is the objective of the Board to maintain high standards of
corporate governance. This report sets out how the principles in
the Code are applied by the Group.
The Board
The Board of Proximagen Group plc comprises of two executive
directors and three non-executive directors, one of whom is the
Chairman. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
are distinct and are held by different people to ensure a clear
division of responsibility. The role of the non-executive directors
is to bring valuable judgment and insight to Board deliberations
and decisions. The non-executive directors are all experienced
and influential individuals whose blend of skills and business
experience contributes to the proper functioning of the Board
and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and
that no individual or group dominates the Board's decision-
making processes.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and are able in the course of their duties, if
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the
Company's expense. Committees have access to such resources
as are required to fulfil their duties.
The Board receives regular reports detailing the progress of
the Group's drug development programmes, the Group's
financial position and projections, as well as business
development activities and operational issues, together with
any other material deemed necessary for the Board to
discharge its duties. The Chairman is primarily responsible for
the effective operation and chairing of the Board and for
ensuring that it receives appropriate information to make
informed judgements. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision but otherwise delegates specific responsibilities to
Committees, as described below. The terms of reference of the
Committees are available on request from the Company
Secretary. The Board is responsible for decisions, and the
review and approval of key policies and decisions in respect of
business strategy and operations, board appointments,
budgets, items of substantial investment and acquisitions.
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nomination
Committee and a Remuneration Committee with written terms
of delegated responsibilities for each. Details of these
committees can be found on page 21. 
Attendance at Board meetings and committees
The Directors attended the following Board meetings and
committee meetings during the year:
Remu-
Director Board Audit neration Nomination
Peter Allen 631-
Michael Ashton 631-
Jackie Hunter 6---
Kenneth Mulvany 6---
James Hunter 6---
Total meetings
held in the year 631-
Under the Articles of Association all directors must offer
themselves for re-election at least once every three years. One
third of the Directors retires by rotation at every Annual General
Meeting and is eligible for re-appointment.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the systems of risk
management and internal control maintained by the Group and
for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board's approach is designed to manage rather than
eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. It operates
with principles and procedures designed to achieve the
accountability and control appropriate to the business. 
The Group does not consider it necessary to have an internal
audit function due to the small size of the administrative
function. Instead there is a detailed director review and
authorisation of agreements and transactions. The annual audit
by the Group's auditor, which tests a sample of transactions, did
not highlight any significant system improvements that needed
to be introduced in order to reduce risks.
A comprehensive budgeting process is completed once a
year and is reviewed and approved by the Board. The Group's
results, compared with the budget, are reported to the Board
on a regular basis and discussed in detail.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect
of actions taken against the Directors because of their roles, as
well as against material loss or claims against the Group. The
insured values and type of cover are comprehensively reviewed
on a periodic basis.
The principal features of the Group's internal control system
are as follows:
  an organisational structure is in place with clearly drawn
lines of accountability and delegation of authority;
  Group employees are required to adhere to specified codes
of conduct, policies and procedures;
  financial results and key operational and financial performance
indicators are reported regularly throughout the year and
variances from plans and budgets are investigated and
reported;
  financial control protocols are in place to safeguard the
assets and maintain proper accounting records; and
  risk management is monitored on an on-going basis to
identify, quantify and manage risks facing the Group.
20 Proximagen Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Proximagen Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21
Corporate Governance continued
Shareholder relations
Proximagen aims to ensure a timely, open, comprehensive and
consistent flow of information to investors and the financial
community as a whole. By this approach we aim to help
investors understand the Group's strategic objectives, its
activities and the progress it makes. 
Shareholders are welcome to attend the Group's Annual
General Meeting (AGM), where they have the opportunity to
meet the Board. All shareholders will have at least 21 days'
notice of the AGM at which the Directors will be available to
discuss aspects of the Group's performance and answer
questions from shareholders. The Company also meets with
its institutional shareholders and analysts as appropriate and
uses the AGM to further encourage communication with
shareholders. In addition, the Company uses the Annual Report
and Accounts, Interim Statement and website to disseminate
information to shareholders. The Company uses the services of
M:Communications to assist in the communication with
shareholders.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two non-executive directors:
Michael Ashton, who chairs the Committee, and Peter Allen.
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer and Finance
Director may be invited to attend Committee meetings and,
following each meeting, the Committee and external auditors
have the opportunity to meet with no executive directors
present.
The Committee reviewed the half year and full year results
and the Interim Statement and Annual Report and Accounts
prior to their submission to the Board and considered any
matters raised by the external auditors. All scheduled
Committee meetings were quorate and the conclusions from
those meetings were presented to the full Board. The Audit
Committee reviews on an annual basis the need for an internal
audit function. In 2011, in common with other companies of its
size and complexity of operation, the Group did not operate an
internal audit function. 
In certain circumstances it is permitted by the Board for the
auditor to supply non-audit services (for example in the
provision of tax advice). The Committee has approved and
monitored the application of this policy in order to safeguard
auditor objectivity and independence. The overall fees paid to
the auditor are not deemed significant enough to them so as
potentially to impair their independence. The auditor is awarded
assignments on a competitive basis and the Audit Committee
pre-approves all permitted non-audit expenditure incurred and
during the year reviews the cost-effectiveness, independence
and objectivity of the external auditor. A formal Statement of
Independence is received from the external auditor each year.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee consists of Peter Allen, who chairs
the Committee, Michael Ashton and Jackie Hunter. The
Committee keeps under review the Board structure, size and
composition, identifies and nominates candidates for the
approval of the Board and ensures plans are put in place for
succession of the executive directors. The Committee did not
meet during the year. 
Remuneration Committee
Michael Ashton chairs this Committee with Peter Allen and
Jackie Hunter as members. The Committee is responsible for
considering directors' remuneration packages and makes its
recommendations to the Board. The Committee met once
during the year. 
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to attend
Remuneration Committee meetings, other than when his own
remuneration is discussed. No director is involved in deciding
his own remuneration. 
Further details of directors' remuneration are disclosed in the
Directors' Remuneration Report
Going concern
The Directors have prepared and reviewed financial forecasts.
After due consideration of these forecasts and current cash
resources, the Directors consider that the Company and the
Group have adequate financial resources to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future (being a period of at least
twelve months from the date of this report). The Directors have
therefore prepared the financial statements on a going concern
basis.
Peter Allen
Non-Executive Chairman
26 March 2012