 Proximagen Group plc fully supports the principles of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code ).
As an AIM-listed company, it is not required to comply
in full with the Code but it is the objective of the Board
to maintain high standards of corporate governance. This
report sets out how the principles in the Code are
applied by the Group.
The Board
The Board of Proximagen Group plc comprises of two
executive directors and three non-executive directors,
one of whom is the Chairman. The roles of Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer are distinct and are held by
different people to ensure a clear division of
responsibility. The role of the non-executive directors is
to bring valuable judgement and insight to Board
deliberations and decisions. The non-executive directors
are all experienced and influential individuals whose
blend of skills and business experience contributes to the
proper functioning of the Board and its Committees,
ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no
individual or group dominates the Board's decision-
making processes.
All directors have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary and are able in the course of
their duties, if necessary, to take independent
professional advice at the Company's expense.
Committees have access to such resources as are
required to fulfil their duties.
The Board receives regular reports detailing the progress
of the Group's drug development programmes, the
Group's financial position and projections, as well as
business development activities and operational issues,
together with any other material deemed necessary for
the Board to discharge its duties. The Chairman is
primarily responsible for the effective operation and
chairing of the Board and for ensuring that it receives
appropriate information to make informed judgements. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to
it for decision but otherwise delegates specific
responsibilities to Committees, as described below. The
terms of reference of the Committees are available on
request from the Company Secretary. The Board is
responsible for decisions, and the review and approval of
key policies and decisions in respect of business strategy
and operations, board appointments, budgets, items of
substantial investment and acquisitions.
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a
Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee
with written terms of delegated responsibilities for each.
Details of these Committees can be found on pages 22-
23. 
Attendance at Board meetings and committees
The directors attended the following Board meetings and
Committee meetings during the year:
Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Peter Allen 7 2 2 1
Michael Ashton 72 2 1
Kenneth Mulvany 7 - - -
James Hunter 7 - - -
Peter Jenner 2 - - -
Bruce Campbell 2 - 1 -
Jackie Hunter 4 - 1 -
Total meetings
held in the year 72 2 1
Under the Articles of Association all directors must offer
themselves for re-election at least once every three
years. One third of the directors retires by rotation at
every AGM and is eligible for re-appointment.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the systems of
risk management and internal control maintained by the
Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board's approach is designed to manage rather than
eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss. It operates with principles and procedures designed
to achieve the accountability and control appropriate to
the business. 
The Group does not consider it necessary to have an
internal audit function due to the small size of the
administrative function. Instead there is detailed director
review and authorisation of agreements and
transactions. The annual audit by the Group's auditor,
which tests a sample of transactions, did not highlight
any significant system improvements that needed to be
introduced in order to reduce risks.
Corporate governance
Proximagen Group plc 21
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued
22 Proximagen Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
A comprehensive budgeting process is completed once a
year and is reviewed and approved by the Board. The
Group's results, compared with the budget, are reported
to the Board on a regular basis and discussed in detail.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in
respect of actions taken against the directors because of
their roles, as well as against material loss or claims
against the Group. The insured values and type of cover
are comprehensively reviewed on a periodic basis.
The principal features of the Group's internal control
system are as follows:
  an organisational structure is in place with clearly
drawn lines of accountability and delegation of
authority;
  Group employees are required to adhere to specified
codes of conduct, policies and procedures;
  financial results and key operational and financial
performance indicators are reported regularly
throughout the year and variances from plans and
budgets are investigated and reported;
  financial control protocols are in place to safeguard
the assets and maintain proper accounting records;
and
  risk management is monitored on an ongoing basis to
identify, quantify and manage risks facing the Group.
Shareholder relations
Proximagen aims to ensure a timely, open,
comprehensive and consistent flow of information to
investors and the financial community as a whole. By
this approach we aim to help investors understand the
Group's strategic objectives, its activities and the
progress it makes. 
Shareholders are welcome to attend the Group's AGM,
where they have the opportunity to meet the Board. All
shareholders will have at least 21 days' notice of the
AGM at which the directors will be available to discuss
aspects of the Group's performance and answer
questions from shareholders. The Company also meets
with its institutional shareholders and analysts as
appropriate and uses the AGM to further encourage
communication with shareholders. In addition, the
Company uses the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim
Statement and website to disseminate information to
shareholders. The Company uses the services of
M:Communications to assist in the communication with
shareholders.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two non-executive
directors: Michael Ashton, who chairs the Committee,
and Peter Allen. Bruce Campbell was also a member of
the Audit Committee until his resignation from the Board
on 29 January 2010. 
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer and
Finance Director may be invited to attend Committee
meetings and, following each meeting, the Committee
and external auditors have the opportunity to meet with
no executive directors present.
The Committee reviewed the half-year and full-year
results and the Interim Statement and Annual Report
and Accounts prior to their submission to the Board and
considered any matters raised by the external auditors.
All scheduled Committee meetings were quorate and the
conclusions from those meetings were presented to the
full Board. The Audit Committee reviews on an annual
basis the need for an internal audit function. In 2010, in
common with other companies of its size and complexity
of operation, the Group did not operate an internal audit
function.
In certain circumstances it is permitted by the Board for
the auditor to supply non-audit services (for example in
the provision of tax advice). The Committee has
approved and monitored the application of this policy in
order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The overall fees paid to the auditor are not deemed
significant enough to them so as potentially to impair
their independence. The auditor is awarded assignments
on a competitive basis and the Audit Committee pre-
approves all permitted non-audit expenditure incurred
and during the year reviews the cost-effectiveness,
independence and objectivity of the external auditor. A
formal Statement of Independence is received from the
external auditor each year.
At the beginning of 2010, the Committee recommended
to the Board that a review of the current audit
arrangements be undertaken. On approval of this by the
Board, a review process was implemented, overseen by
the Committee and supported by management, whereby
four audit firms, including Baker Tilly, the Group's former
auditor, presented their proposals to the Audit
Committee for the 2010 audit. Following the competitive
tender, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board,
and the Board approved, that a resolution be put to
members at the 2010 General Meeting to appoint Ernst
& Young LLP as the Group's auditors from 2010. The
resolution was duly carried. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee consists of Peter Allen,
who chairs the Committee, Michael Ashton and Jackie
Hunter, who joined following her appointment on
29 January 2010. Bruce Campbell was also a member
of the Nomination Committee until his resignation from
the Board on 29 January 2010. The Committee keeps
under review the Board structure, size and composition,
identifies and nominates candidates for the approval of
the Board and ensures plans are put in place for
succession of the executive directors. The Committee
met once during the year. 
Remuneration Committee
Michael Ashton chairs this Committee with Peter Allen
and Jackie Hunter, who joined following her
appointment on 29 January 2010, as members. Bruce
Campbell was a member and chairman of the
Remuneration Committee until his resignation from the
Board on 29 January 2010. The Committee is
responsible for considering directors' remuneration
packages and makes its recommendations to the Board.
The Committee met twice during the year and the
conclusions were presented to the full Board. 
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to attend
Remuneration Committee meetings, other than when his
own remuneration is discussed. No director is involved
in deciding his own remuneration.
Further details of directors' remuneration are disclosed in
the Directors' Remuneration Report
Going concern
The directors have prepared and reviewed financial
forecasts. After due consideration of these forecasts and
current cash resources, the directors consider that the
Company and the Group have adequate financial
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable
future (being a period of at least twelve months from the
date of this report). The directors have therefore
prepared the financial statements on a going concern
basis.
Corporate governance continued
Proximagen Group plc 23
Annual Report & Accounts 2010