 Proximagen Neuroscience plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Discoveries for Life 17
Corporate governance
Introduction
Proximagen Neuroscience plc was listed on AIM on
31 March 2005. The Group recognises the importance of,
and is committed to, the highest standards of corporate
governance. Proximagen Neuroscience plc, as an AIM
company, is not required to comply with the July 2003
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code ),
although it has adopted the majority of Combined Code
principles as set out below. 
The Board
The Board of Proximagen Neuroscience plc is responsible for
the Group's system of corporate governance and internal
control and is accountable for its activities. The Board
currently comprises two executive directors and four non-
executive directors, one of whom is the Chairman. The roles
of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and are held by
different people to ensure a clear division of responsibility.
The role of non-executive directors is to bring independent
judgment to Board deliberations and decisions. The non-
executive directors are all experienced and influential
individuals whose blend of skills and business experience
contributes to the proper functioning of the Board and its
Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that
no individual or group dominates the Board's decision-
making processes.
During 2005 a formal evaluation was undertaken of the
Chief Executive's performance based on information
provided by directors and senior staff. It is the Board's
intention to review annually its performance and that of its
Committees and individual directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and are able in the course of their duties,
if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the
Company's expense. Committees have access to such
resources as are required to fulfill their duties.
The Board receives reports covering finance, business
development, operations and science together with any other
material deemed necessary for the Board to discharge its
duties. The Chairman, Bruce Campbell, is primarily
responsible for the effective operation and chairing of the
Board and for ensuring that it receives appropriate
information to make informed judgments. The Board has a
formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but
otherwise delegates specific responsibilities to Committees,
as described below. The terms of reference of the
Committees are available on request from the Company
Secretary. The Board is responsible for decisions, and the
review and approval of key policies and decisions, in respect
of business strategy, board appointments, budgets, items of
substantial investment and acquisitions.
Board committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a
Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee
with written terms of delegated responsibilities for each.
Details of these committees can be found on page 18.
Under the Articles of Association all directors must offer
themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
One third of the directors retire by rotation at every Annual
General Meeting and are eligible for re-appointment.
Internal control and risk management
Proximagen operates and attaches importance to clear
principles and procedures designed to achieve the
accountability and control appropriate to a science-based
business operating internationally in a highly regulated
business sector. The Board is responsible for the system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Proximagen has established an organisational structure with
clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of
authority. All Group employees are required to adhere to
specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures. The
identification and appraisal of risks is carried out through
the annual process of preparing budgets and through the
close monitoring of operations. Financial results and key
operational and financial performance indicators are
reported regularly throughout the year and variances from
plans and budgets are investigated and reported. The Group
has a system of high-level financial control. Although the
Group does not currently have an internal audit function due
to the small size of the administrative function, the Board
has reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management
as they operated during the year. The Board reviews
annually the overall framework and effectiveness of controls.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate
risks and can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Shareholder relations
It is the objective of Proximagen's Board and of its investor
relations programme to ensure a timely, open,
comprehensive, and consistent flow of information to
investors and the financial community. By this means we
aim to help investors to understand the Group's activities
and strategic objectives. The Company meets with its
institutional shareholders and analysts as appropriate and
will use the AGM to further encourage communication with
shareholders. In addition, the Company will be using the
Annual Report and Accounts, interim statement, and web
site (www.proximagen.com) to provide further information
to shareholders. The Company uses the services of Buchanan
Communications to assist in the communication with
shareholders. 18 Discoveries for Life Proximagen Neuroscience plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Corporate governance continued
Audit Committee
In 2005, the Audit Committee comprised three non-
executive directors: George Murlewski (chairman), Bruce
Campbell and Nigel Whittle. The external auditors, Chief
Executive Officer and Finance Director are invited to attend
meetings and, following each meeting, the Committee and
external auditors have the opportunity to meet with no
executives present.
The Committee reviewed the half year and full year
results and the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts
prior to their submission to the Board and considered any
matters raised by the external auditors. During the year the
Committee reviewed the Group's internal financial controls.
The meetings were fully attended by all Committee members
and the conclusions were presented to the full Board. The
Audit Committee reviews on an annual basis the need for an
internal audit function. In 2005, in common with other
companies of its size and complexity of operation, the
Company did not operate an internal audit function. 
It is the Group's policy to employ the auditors on
assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where
their expertise and experience with the Group are important,
such as providing tax advice where they are awarded
assignments on a competitive basis.
The Audit Committee pre-approves all permitted non-
audit expenditure incurred and during the year reviewed the
cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the
external auditors. The Committee recommended to the
Board the reappointment of the Company's external
auditors. 
Since the year end, George Murlewski has resigned as a
non-executive director of the Company and the company
expects to appoint a new member and Chairman of the Audit
Committee shortly.
Nomination Committee
In 2005, the Nomination Committee consisted of Bruce
Campbell, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Whittle and
George Murlewski. The Committee keeps under review the
Board structure, size and composition, identifies and
nominates candidates for the approval of the Board and
ensures plans are put in place for succession of the executive
directors. The Committee met once formally and the meeting
was fully attended. 
Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Remuneration Committee of the Board
consisted of Nigel Whittle, who chairs the Committee, Bruce
Campbell and George Murlewski. It is responsible for
considering directors' remuneration packages and makes its
recommendations to the Board. The Committee met twice
during the year and all meetings were fully attended. The
Chief Executive Officer was invited to attend Remuneration
Committee meetings, other than when his own remuneration
was discussed. No director is involved in deciding his own
remuneration. 
Remuneration policy
It is the aim of the Remuneration Committee to encourage
and reward superior performance by executives with that
performance being based on the measurable delivery of good
financial performance and the delivery of strong value to
shareholders. The Remuneration Committee believes that
the current policy continues to retain and motivate the
executives appropriately while enforcing a strong pay for
performance culture within the Company.
At present, the Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth Mulvany,
is entitled to receive salary, medical insurance and a
matching pension contribution, up to a maximum of 5% of
salary. No bonus has been paid.
Mr Mulvany has not to date contributed to Proximagen's
Group Personal Pension scheme and has foregone his
entitlement to the Company's contribution to his pension for
the period under review and all prior periods. 
Executive service contract
Kenneth Mulvany has an executive service agreement with
the Company dated 23 March 2005, which continues unless
terminated by the Company on 30 days' written notice and
six months written notice by the executive. In the event of
termination by the Company, salary and benefits will be
payable for the period of six months. If the executive
terminates for certain reasons set out in the service
agreement, then the notice period he is required to give is
reduced to 30 days. In the event of termination under these
conditions, salary and benefits will be payable for the period
of six months.
Non-executive Directors
The non-executive directors entered into letters of
engagement dated 23 March 2005, wherein the Board
determines the fees paid to the non-executive directors.
During 2005, directors were remunerated at a basic rate,
plus a fixed amount for membership of Board Committees,
adjusted for the acceptance of additional and specific
responsibilities. Some of the fees were to be payable in the
form of share options at the request of the non-executive
directors. Non-executive directors do not participate in the
Company's pension or bonus schemes. The appointments
can be terminated upon three months' notice being given by
either party.
Pensions
The Group operates a Group Personal Pension scheme.
Under the scheme rules, the Group will match employee
contributions up to a maximum of 5% of salary. The scheme
is open to directors and employees. 