 19 Punch T averns plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Compliance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, for which the Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders.
The Directors consider that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the current Code throughout the year and 
to the date of this report.
The Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Higgs review on Non-executive Directors and the Smith Report on Audit Committees, and
has considered the implications of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is effective for reporting years beginning on or
after 1 November 2003. It has determined that it already complies with the vast majority of the new requirements but to fully comply the Board
will be making arrangements for the terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees to be made publicly available on
the Company website. The Board also plans to introduce a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Board Committees
and individual Directors.
The Board of Directors
The Board meets at least ten times per annum and convenes additional meetings to consider matters that are time-critical. The Board has
established guidelines requiring specific matters to be subject to decision by the full Board of Directors, including material acquisitions and
disposals, investments and capital projects. This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, financial and key operational issues.
The Board is considered to be of sufficient size that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by different Directors and the Board is balanced by a strong Non-executive element. The
majority (five out of seven, following the appointment of Peter Cawdron in May 2003) of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the
Board to be independent of management and have no relationships which may interfere with their independent judgement. Fritz Ternofsky is the
senior independent Non-executive Director. The Board has determined that all Directors will be subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Board has a procedure through which the Directors are able to take independent advice in the furtherance of their responsibilities. The
Directors, each of whom has received appropriate training, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The Company
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board has established guidelines requiring specific matters to be subject to decision by the full 
Board of Directors, including material acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all
Directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board meeting. This normally includes a detailed report on current trading 
and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval. In addition, the Board has established an
Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee with formally delegated duties and responsibilities within written
terms of reference.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Phil Cox and its other members are Randl Shure, Fritz Ternofsky and Mike Foster. Following the
recommendations of the Smith Report on Audit Committees, Peter Cawdron will take the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee, after the
Company's Annual General Meeting. The Audit Committee meets at least three times per annum and senior management, including the Finance
Director and external auditors attend for part or all of each meeting. The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and
its Chairman. The Audit Committee considers all matters relating to internal control and reporting, external audits, the scope and results of the
audits, the independence and objectivity of the auditors and establishes that an effective system of internal financial control is maintained.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Fritz Ternofsky and its other members are Phil Cox and Mike Foster. All members of this committee
are independent Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee meets at least once per annum. The Chairman, the Chief Executive 
and other Directors may be invited to attend meetings as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate. The Remuneration Committee
will consider all material elements of remuneration policy, remuneration and incentives of Executive Directors and senior management with
reference to independent remuneration research and professional advice in accordance with the Combined Code. The Remuneration Committee
has appointed Halliwell Consulting to provide this professional advice. The Remuneration Committee will then recommend to the Board on 
the framework for executive remuneration and its cost. The Board is then responsible for implementing the recommendations and agreeing the
remuneration packages of individual Directors. The Directors are not permitted, under the Articles, to vote on their own terms and conditions 
of remuneration.
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mike Foster and its other members are Phil Cox and Cornel Riklin. The Nominations Committee
meets as required and will make recommendations to the Board on new appointments to the Board.
Corporate Governance 20 Punch T averns plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Company's system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Company's strategic objectives. It should be recognised
that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Combined Code requires
the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. This relates to all controls, covering financial, operational,
compliance and risk management matters.
The Company has processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. These processes have been in place
for the whole of the financial year and have continued up to the date of this report. The processes are in accordance with the guidance of the
Turnbull Committee.
The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows:
  Regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for Directors' consideration.
  An annual review of corporate strategy, which includes a review of risks facing the business.
  A risk management process which identifies the key risks facing the business and how these risks are monitored and managed 
on an ongoing basis.
  An established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
  Documented and enforced policies and procedures.
  Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
  Comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored 
against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
  A detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects. Post investment appraisals are conducted and are
reviewed by the Board.
  An Audit Committee of the Board, comprising Non-executive Directors, which considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
  The appointment of an internal auditor to perform continuous assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk management and control.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority and the Company aims to provide as much information as is commercially sensible 
to both existing and potential investors, recognising that transparency is the best way to develop understanding of the Company's strategy,
performance and growth potential. The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and
responds quickly to all enquiries. The Strategic & Operational Review on pages 4 to 8 and Financial Review on pages 12 to 13 include a detailed
review of the business and future developments. There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as presentations after the
Company's preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. It is our
policy for all Directors to attend the AGM whenever possible. The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees and the senior independent Non-executive Director are available at the Annual General Meeting and are available to
answer relevant questions.
Shareholders will be asked this year to vote on the Report on Directors' Remuneration as required by the Directors' Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditors
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non-audit services can be provided
by the Company's external auditors and the approval processes related to them. Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not be
offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benefits to the Company. The Audit Committee monitors the
level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and
have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance continued