 The Company's shares were admitted to trading on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange on 23 May 2001. 
The Group is therefore subject to the AIM Admission Rules of the London Stock Exchange and is consequently not required to comply with the 
best practice corporate governance provisions contained within the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. However, the directors have considered the provisions of the 2006 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code and are committed to
high standards of corporate governance of its affairs as part of its management of relationships with its shareholders and other stake holders.
Summarised below are the principles that have been applied in the Group, and the extent of current compliance taking into account the size of 
the Group.
Principles of good governance and code of best practice ( the Combined Code')
The directors have based their approach to corporate governance on those principles of the Combined Code they believe to be appropriate to the
Group. The following summary includes details of the Combined Code provisions the Group has complied with and those areas where compliance 
is not deemed appropriate.
The Board
Pursuit Dynamics PLC is led by a strong and experienced Board. Four out the current six directors are non-executive strengthening the independent
representation on the Board. The Chairman is one of the Non-executive directors and there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive. Under the Company's Articles of Association, at least one-third of the Board is subject to retirement and re-election 
each year.
The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls. This includes responsibility for determining the
Group's strategy and for approving short and medium term plans for achieving this strategy. The Board has a schedule of matters specifically
reserved for the Board and all major and other strategic decisions are reserved to the Board which also has responsibility for corporate governance
matters, approving major items of capital expenditure, senior executive remuneration and succession planning for top management. All directors take
decisions objectively in the interests of the Group. As appropriate, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board committees, which
operate within clearly defined terms of reference. Standing committees of the Board include the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee,
with each committee consisting entirely of Non-executive directors. The function of a Nominations Committee is performed by the whole Board.
The Board met 10 times for regularly scheduled meetings during the year to 30 September 2008. At each regularly scheduled meeting, there is a
full financial and business review and discussion, including operating performance to date against the annual budget and financial plan previously
approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives monthly operating results, including a comprehensive commentary and analysis. The Board has additional meetings
when circumstances and urgent business dictate.
Prior to each Board meeting, directors are sent an agenda and a set of Board papers for each agenda item to be discussed at the meeting.
Additional information is provided as appropriate. Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility for the control of the Group, daily management 
is conducted by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Directors' remuneration
Brian Sweeney is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee, which consists exclusively of Non-executive
directors, is responsible for making recommendations on the Group's framework of executive remuneration, and for determining specific
remuneration packages for each executive director. The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of Non-executive directors. A full report on
remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each director can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 20 and 21. 
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Group's website www.pursuitdynamics.com.
Relations with shareholders
The Annual Report contains information on the activities of the Group for the preceding year and is sent to every shareholder on the share 
register. The Interim Report is also sent to every shareholder. Management endeavours to keep shareholders informed with regular news releases.
All regulatory news releases and reports are available on the Group's website.
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders. 
Audit Committee and Auditors
Stuart Evans is chairman of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's financial reporting
and internal control policies and risk management systems, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Group's auditors. The Audit
Committee has a particular role to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available on the Group's website. 
Internal control and Risk Management
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. Identification and evaluation of risks 
is an integral part of the Board's planning process, although the main risk continues to be the availability of funding to complete the Group's
development programme.
Controls within the Group are designed to provide the Board with reasonable assurance regarding the maintenance of proper accounting records,
the reliability of financial information and the safeguarding of assets.
Corporate Governance
Pursuit Dynamics PLC 
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
18
81880 pre:81880 pre  2/2/09  15:02  Page 18 A system to identify, assess and evaluate business risk is embedded within the management process throughout the Group. Strategic risks are
reviewed regularly by the Board. Risks relating to the key activities within the Group are continuously assessed.
The Group's internal procedures include the following:
-  a schedule of matters reserved for the Board
-  the Board meets at least 10 times a year to manage the affairs of the Group. The Group's financial and operating performance is closely
monitored at each Board meeting
-  the Group prepares an annual budget at the commencement of each financial year. Revised forecasts are prepared as required. The budget and
revised forecasts are reviewed and approved by the Board
-  the Board monitors actual monthly financial performance of the Group.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility. Because of the size of the current trading operations and 
the detailed accounting and operational information available the directors do not believe the expense of an internal audit function is justified.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Board recognises the importance of taking into account its corporate social responsibility in operating the business. In this context it seeks to
integrate social, ethical, health, safety and environmental considerations into its day to day operations. The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure
the Group conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard for all its stakeholders including shareholders, business partners, suppliers and
local communities.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the Group and the Parent Company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the Group
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice). The Group and Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
-  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
-  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
-  state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with regard to the Parent Company financial
statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements prepare the Group and Parent Company financial statements, on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Dawn Sugden
Company Secretary
30 January 2009
Pursuit Dynamics PLC 
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
19
81880 pre:81880 pre  2/2/09  15:02  Page 19