 Quantica plc 
Annual Report 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 16
Combined Code
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has applied the principles of corporate
governance recommended in the Combined Code. The Board is accountable to the Group's shareholders in its
management of the affairs of the Group. This statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are
applied to the Group.
The Board considers that the Group has complied throughout the year with the Combined Code with the
following exceptions:
 the inclusion of P J Bennett and B H Heather on the Audit Committee does not comply with the Combined Code
which requires the Audit Committee to be comprised of at least three Non-executive Directors, the majority of
which should be independent;
 the inclusion of P J Bennett and B H Heather on the Remuneration Committee does not comply with the
Combined Code which requires the Remuneration Committee to be wholly comprised of independent
Non-executive Directors; and
 the inclusion of P J Bennett and B H Heather on the Board means that a majority of the Non-executive Directors
are not independent.
Composition of the Board and Committees
The Quantica Group comprises the Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three other Non-executive
Directors. The Company has reviewed the availability of the Non-executive Directors and considers that each of them
is able to devote the agreed amount of time to the business of the Company. The Board considers that two of the
Non-executive Directors are independent as identified in the biographies on page 9.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of the Company's business and determines Group
strategy, reviews trading performance, ensures adequate funding and examines major investments. One of the
responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that Board members receive sufficient and timely information regarding
corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties, and to enable them to make further enquiries
where necessary. The adequacy of this information is periodically reviewed. The Board meets at least four times
a year.
The Non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability by bringing their judgement to bear on issues
brought before the Board and Board Committee meetings. They bring considerable knowledge and experience from
other areas of business and public life, and their views carry significant weight in the Board's decision. They also meet
as a group without Executive Directors being present. 
The execution of the Group's strategies and policies is carried out on a day-to-day basis by the Executive Directors
who work as a team and meet regularly in the course of their work.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for approval of the Board is maintained.
On 6 December 2002, A Gartland, Non-executive Chairman, resigned from the Board of Quantica. P J Bennett replaced
A Gartland as Non-executive Chairman with immediate effect.
The Board is aware of the guidance contained in the revised Code which will apply next year. The Board will review
and consider any areas of non-compliance over the course of next year.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by P J Bennett (previously A Gartland until
his resignation on 6 December 2002). Its duties include the review of the Group's controls, the annual report and financial
statements, interim statements and the Group's accounting policies. Duties also include a responsibility to keep under
review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external
auditor. The Finance Director and external auditors attend meetings of the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the
Audit Committee is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions from the investors. Quantica plc 
Annual Report 2003
17
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by P J Bennett (previously A Gartland
until his resignation on 6 December 2002). It is responsible for establishing the salary and other remuneration of the
Executive Directors and senior management within the Group. Decisions relating to the remuneration of Non-executive
Directors are taken by the full Board. No Director participates in any decision relating to his own salary. The Report
on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 13 to 15.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is available at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by P J Bennett. The Committee
considers new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. Proposals by the Committee are
considered and determined by the full Board. Appropriate training is available for all new Directors. All Directors are
required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals of no more than three years. All new Directors are
required to seek re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Going concern
The Directors, after making appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors
continue to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement. Internal control is defined
in the Combined Code as all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Directors
have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period.
The key features of the Group's system of internal financial control which have been established are as follows:
 the maintenance of strong financial controls and the production of accurate and timely financial
management information;
 the identification and appraisal of risk is carried out by the annual process of preparing business plans and
detailed budgets;
 detailed budgeting, forecasting and reporting of trading results, balance sheets and financial ratios with regular
review by management of variances from targeted performance levels throughout the year;
 the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of
accounting duties;
 clearly defined procedures exist for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation; and
 defined Group monthly and weekly reporting processes which collate detailed information from all operating locations.
Operational and compliance controls and risk management are part of the Group's basis of operation. Quantica plc 
Annual Report 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18
Internal control (continued)
The Board has established key principles of corporate governance for the Group. These include:
 an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has
been in place during 2002 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts. The process is
reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Committee guidance on internal control issued in
September 1999;
 financial reporting including a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses which culminates in an
annual Group budget which is approved by the Board;
 results for the Company and for its main operating businesses are reported monthly against this budget to the
Board. Revised forecasts are prepared on a regular basis;
 the executive members of the Board meet monthly with senior operational management to review formally all
financial, general management and commercial issues;
 the operating units are required to report in accordance with established Group financial controls and procedures.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the internal controls of the operating units are carried out by the Finance
Director and key business risks are identified, monitored and reported to the Board;
 a number of the Group's key functions including treasury, taxation, company secretarial and significant legal
matters are dealt with centrally and are controlled by the Finance Director, who reports regularly to the Board; and
 the Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, along with
appraisal and review procedures. Where businesses are being acquired, the Group's procedures include detailed
due diligence  reviews which are performed by the Group's own staff and with the extensive use of specialist
external advisors.
Shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority. All shareholders receive a copy of the annual report and
interim statement. There is an opportunity to question the Directors at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors
meet informally with shareholders after the Meeting. There is regular dialogue with individual institutional
shareholders. In addition, corporate and customer information is available on the Company's web site at
www.quantica.co.uk.
Internal audit
The Board has considered the requirement for an internal audit function during the year. The Board considers that the
current composition of the Group does not warrant a separate internal audit function. They will continue to keep this
position under review.