 55
R.E.A.  Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
Governance
Audit committee report 
Summary of the role of the audit committee
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available
for download from the company's website rea.co.uk.
The audit committee is responsible for:
  monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and
reviewing formal announcements of financial
performance and the significant reporting issues and
judgements that such statements and announcements
contain;
  reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control
functions (including the internal financial controls, the
internal audit function and arrangements whereby
internally raised staff concerns as to financial reporting
and other relevant matters are considered);
  making recommendations to the board in relation to the
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external
auditor, remuneration and terms of engagement; and
  reviewing and monitoring the independence of the
external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit
process.
The audit committee also monitors the engagement of the
external auditor to perform non-audit work.  During 2013, the
only non-audit work undertaken by the auditor was, as in the
previous year, routine compliance reporting in connection with
covenant obligations applicable to certain group loans (as
respects which the governing instruments require that such
compliance reporting is carried out by the auditor).  The audit
committee considered that the nature and scope of, and
remuneration payable in respect of, these engagements were
such that the independence and objectivity of the auditor was
not impaired.  Fees payable are detailed in note 5 to the
consolidated financial statements.
The members of the audit committee discharge their
responsibilities by informal discussions between themselves,
meetings with the external auditor, with the internal auditor in
Indonesia and with management in Indonesia and London and
by consideration of reports from management, the Indonesian
internal audit function and the external auditor.
The committee provides advice and recommendations to the
board with respect to the financial statements to ensure that
these offer fair, balanced and comprehensive information for
the purpose of informing and protecting the interests of the
company's shareholders.
Composition of the audit committee
The audit committee comprises Mr Blackett (chairman) and
Mr Killick both of whom are considered by the directors to
have relevant financial and professional experience in order to
be able to fulfil their specific duties with respect to the audit
committee.  
Meetings
Three audit meetings are fixed to match the company's
budgeting and reporting cycle.  There are additional ad hoc
meetings held to discuss specific matters when required.  
Significant issues related to the financial statements
The committee reviewed the half year financial statements to
30 June 2013 (on which the auditor did not report) and the
full year consolidated financial statements for 2013 (the
2013 financial statements ) contained in this annual report.
The external audit report on the latter was considered
together with a paper to the committee by the auditor
reporting on the principal audit findings.  The audit partner of
Deloitte LLP responsible for the audit of the group attended
the audit planning meeting prior to the year end as well as the
meeting of the committee at which the full year audited
consolidated financial statements were considered and
approved.  Senior members of staff of Deloitte LLP who were
involved in the audit also attended the meetings.  
In relation to the group's audited 2013 financial statements,
the committee considered the significant accounting and
judgement issues set out below.
Issues Assessment
Fair valuation of biological assets: the valuation is based on a
discounted cash flow model which contains some significant
management assumptions in regard to certain inputs.
Each year the group considers the various inputs for the
valuation model and adjusts these as necessary to reflect the
current status of the group's plantations, crop yields, the
margins achieved from sale of product and general financial
conditions.  These are also compared as appropriate with
inputs for such valuations disclosed by other oil palm
plantation companies.  
Significant accounting and judgement issues Governance
Audit committee report
continued
56
R.E.A.  Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Issues Assessment
Valuation of Indonesian stone and coal interests: the value of
these interests is based on their expected future generation of
revenue following a review in 2012, an impairment charge of
$3 million was booked in the 2012 consolidated financial
statements.
The group has made recent progress with third parties in
relation to the coal concessions and has also received the
reports of experts on the characteristics of the group's
significant stone deposit.  A further review performed by the
group supports the conclusion that no further impairment
charge is required at this time.
Indonesian tax balances: Indonesian legislation as to the tax
treatment of transactions is sometimes unclear and can result
in disputes between the group and the Indonesian tax
authorities. Certain disputed items are currently the subject of
cases in appeal courts.
Each year the group  prepares an evaluation of items that may
be disputed and adjusts tax balances as required.  The
outcome of the two tax cases, which have been subject to
judicial process for a number of years, remains uncertain;
however, the group has made full provision against the
possible non-recovery of the balances relating to these two
cases.
Village disruptions:  during 2012 and early 2013, disputes
with certain villages in areas surrounding the group's
agricultural operations resulted in action variously to prevent
harvesting some oil palm areas and to stop the milling of fruit
harvested;  this resulted in lost production and poor quality
production and a shortfall in anticipated cash generation.
All material disputes were resolved in the early months of
2013; relations between the group and the villages concerned
are now much improved and production has recovered; new
bank lines have been arranged to ensure the adequacy of the
group's cash reserves.
Revenue recognition: compliance with the bill and hold  sale
revenue recognition requirements of IAS18 Revenue
Recognition  and those relating to forward sales.
There are long-standing operating procedures for the storage
of product where the buyer has requested a delivery delay, and
as such complies with IFRS.  In addition the shift of delivery
method over recent years from FOB Samarinda to CIF has
reduced the materiality of this issue.  The group has no
forward sales at fixed prices.
Fair valuation of cross currency swaps:  the valuation is
derived as the difference between the net present values of
the bought and sold positions converted to US dollars with
assumptions as to appropriate discount rates.
The group has assumed discount rates based on published
rates for the periods and currencies involved and has adjusted
these for credit risk;  the relatively short remaining duration of
the swaps means that the scope for error in the valuation
method is limited.
In its review of the annual report and the consolidated
financial statements, the committee has considered
management's submissions on the matters above, together
with the conclusions reached by the auditor, in order to ensure
that the annual report and the consolidated financial
statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide
sufficient information to enable shareholders to make an
assessment of the group's performance, business model and
strategy.  
External Audit 
The external auditor was appointed as the company's external
auditor in 2002.  There has been no tender for audit services
since that time. Mark McIlquham has been the company's
audit engagement partner since November 2010 and is due
to step down next year under the standard rotation process. 
The audit committee has recommended to the board that it
should seek the approval of the company's shareholders for
the reappointment of the company's current auditor.  That
recommendation reflects an assessment of the qualifications,
expertise, resources and independence of the auditor based
upon reports produced by the auditor, the committee's own
dealings with the auditor and feedback from management.
The committee took into account the likelihood of withdrawal
of the auditor from the market and noted that there were no
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external
auditor.  However, given the current level of audit fees, the
limited choice of audit firms with sufficient international
coverage and experience and the costs that a change would
be likely to entail, the committee did not recommend that the
company's audit be put out to tender. 57
R.E.A.  Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
In its assessment of the external auditor, the audit committee
considered the following criteria:
  delivery of a thorough and efficient audit of the group in
accordance with agreed plans and timescales
  provision of accurate, relevant and robust advice on key
accounting and audit judgments, technical issues and
best practice 
  the degree of professionalism and expertise
demonstrated by the audit staff
  sufficient continuity within the core audit team
  adherence to independence policies and other
regulatory requirements.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The board of the company has primary responsibility for the
group's risk management and internal control systems.  The
audit committee supervises the internal audit function, which
forms an important component of the control systems, and
keeps the control systems generally under review.  Any
deficiencies identified are drawn to the attention of the board.
Internal audit
The group's Indonesian operations have a fully staffed in-
house internal audit function supplemented where necessary
by the use of external consultants.  The function issues a full
report on each internal audit topic and a summary of the
report is issued to the audit committee.  In addition, follow-up
audits are undertaken to ensure that the necessary remedial
action has been taken.  In the opinion of the audit committee
and the board, there is no need for an internal audit function
outside Indonesia due to the limited nature of the non-
Indonesian operations.
Approved by the audit committee on 28 April 2014 and
signed on behalf of the committee by:
DAVID J BLACKETT
Chairman