 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
As a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange, the
Directors' policy is, as far as is possible in relation to the group's size, to manage the affairs of the
group in accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice issued by
the Financial Reporting Council (the Combined Code ).
Set out below is a summary of how, at 31 March 2007, the key recommendations of the Combined
Code were complied with.
Application of the principles of good governance
The names of the directors and their respective responsibilities are shown on page 5. The Board
presently consists of three executive and one non-executive director. The Board meets regularly
and receives appropriate information from management in advance of its meetings. Certain
functions are delegated to Board Committees.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by the non-executive director and consists of that director
and the chairman. Its key role is to make recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of
reference, on the Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost and to determine
on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee consists of the Chairman and the non-executive director, both of whom are
Chartered Accountants. The Committee, which is chaired by the non-executive director, meets with
the independent auditors to consider the group's financial reporting in advance of its publication.
The Board consider that its structure is appropriate to its present stage of development and that
the non-executive is independent of the executives in both character and judgement.
Internal financial control
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a system of
internal financial control to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial information used within the business and for publication and that assets are safeguarded.
There are inherent limitations in any system of internal financial control and accordingly even the
most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance with respect to
the preparation of financial information and the safeguarding of assets.
The key features of the internal financial control system that operated during the year may be
summarised as follows:
  the Board is responsible for overall strategy and for approving budgets, forecasts and plans;
  clear lines of authority, responsibility and financial accountability within each business unit,
ensuring an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing controlling and
monitoring its business operations;
  consideration and review by the Board of monthly management accounts which compare
actual results with budgets and prior years' results;
  regular reporting of legal and accounting developments to the Board;
  comprehensive accounting policies and regular reviews of compliance with those policies; and
  on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the interim results and annual
financial statements along with the nature and scope of the external audit. Action is taken to
ensure that any significant findings or risks identified by these reviews are dealt with.
The Audit Committee reviews the operation and effectiveness of this framework on a regular basis.
The directors consider that there have been no weaknesses in internal financial control that have
resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties requiring disclosure in the group's
financial statements.
9
209691_pp01-pp15.qxp  25/6/07  14:48  Page 9 Relations with shareholders
The Chairman makes himself available to major shareholders on request and periodically attends
meetings with and presentations to shareholders. The Annual General Meeting is normally attended
by all directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with
directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Going concern
Having made enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the
group as a whole will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
accounts. Further details are included in note 1(a) to the financial statements.
Directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group and of the profit
or loss of the group for that period. In preparing those financial statements the directors are
required to:
(a) select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
(b) make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
(c) state whether applicable Accounting Standards have been followed subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
(d) prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
assume that the company and the group as a whole will continue in business.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper accounting records that
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial
information included on the red24 plc website.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and,
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
information contained in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors' responsibilities
Company law requires auditors to form an independent opinion on the financial statements
presented by the directors based on their audit and to report their opinion to the shareholders. The
Companies Act 1985 also requires auditors to report to the shareholders if the following
requirements are not met:
  that the group has maintained proper accounting records;
  that the financial statements are in agreement with the accounting records;
  that directors' emoluments and other transactions with directors are properly disclosed in the
financial statements; and
10
209691_pp01-pp15.qxp  25/6/07  14:48  Page 10   that the auditors have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of their
knowledge and belief, are necessary for the purpose of their audit.
The auditors' opinion does not encompass the Chairman's Statement, the Directors' Report, the
disclosures relating to corporate governance or the Remuneration Report. However, the
Companies Act 1985 requires auditors to report to the shareholders whether or not the matters
contained in the Directors' Report are consistent with the financial statements.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee undertakes a formal assessment of the external auditors' independence each
year which includes:
  a review of non-audit services provided to the group and related fees;
  receipt from the auditors of a written report detailing relationships with the company and any
other parties that could affect independence or the perception of independence;
  a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and
partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
  obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they
are independent.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit
services during the year is set out in Note 3 to the accounts.
International Financial Reporting Standards
Under a European Union Directive, the company will be required to present its financial statements
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards with effect from the year ending
31 March 2008. Preliminary work undertaken by the directors suggests the company will need to
adopt different accounting policies in some areas, such as foreign currency translation, and there
will be a number of presentational changes to the format of the financial statements. However, with
the exception of goodwill, which will be subject to annual impairment reviews rather than systematic
amortisation, the directors do not expect that the introduction of International Financial Reporting
Standards will result in material changes to the reported profits or losses of the group. The directors
intend to provide more detailed information on the effect of the introduction of International Financial
Reporting Standards on the group's financial statements next year.
On behalf of the board
S A Richards
Director
21 June 2007
11
209691_pp01-pp15.qxp  25/6/07  14:48  Page 11