 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Combined Code
The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and has considered the requirements of
the Combined Code adopted by the Stock Exchange.
The Directors confirm that, with the exception set out below,
the Group has complied with Section 1 throughout the year
ended 30 June 2003.
Under provision B.1.6, the deferred element of the Redrow Long
Term Share Incentive Plan (LTSIP), which was in operation
from July 1996 to June 2000, vests in the participants in under
three years. This was considered justified having regard to the
total executive remuneration package during that time. An
amendment was made to the Redrow LTSIP following the
Annual General Meeting on 13 October 2000 such that options
awarded to Directors in respect of years after June 2000 do not
vest in the participants for a period of three years.  Details are
set out in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 41.
Under provision D.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Company is
required to report on internal control. The Company's report on
internal control can be found on page 38 within this Corporate
Governance statement.
Board and committees
Following the promotions of N Fitzsimmons to Group Managing
Director and D L Arnold to Group Finance Director, the 
Board of Redrow plc comprises of six Executive and four 
Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors comprise 
not less than one third of the Board and all Non-Executive
Directors are considered to be independent. The Board is
responsible to Shareholders for the management of the Company
and for the protection of its assets. The Board meets regularly on
a formal basis and not less than ten times a year. In the financial
year ended 30 June 2003, the Board met eleven times.
The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and
good training are important requirements across the Group.
All Executive Directors have an annual appraisal at which a
review of performance against personal objectives is undertaken.
P L Pedley undertakes the appraisal of his fellow Executive
Directors having taken input from the Board generally. 
R B Jones and P L Pedley conduct reciprocal annual appraisals
and also review the performance of each Non-Executive Director
individually, once again having taken feedback from the Board.
In 2003, a formal 2 day induction programme for all new Redrow
Directors was introduced. In addition, the Board receives regular
presentations from those responsible for key Group disciplines.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for the Board including
authorisation of major land acquisitions and contracts, approval
of budgets and accounts and monitoring of business performance.
The Board delegates certain powers to the Chief Executive and
Executive Directors.
R B Jones is the Non-Executive Chairman and P L Pedley is the
Chief Executive. The Senior Non-Executive Director is 
J Martin. 
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Group Company Secretary and the Board acknowledges that in 
certain circumstances Board committees and individual Directors
may wish to take independent professional advice in connection
with their responsibilities and duties. The Company will meet
the reasonable expenses incurred in this regard.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees,
the members of which, with the exception of the Environmental
Corporate Responsibility Committee, are comprised entirely of
Non-Executive Directors as follows:
Audit Committee
R G Williams (Chairman)
R B Jones
J Martin
B Duckworth
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the
appointment of and liaison with External Auditors, the review 
of annual and interim financial statements, the review of the
statement on internal control and consideration of any major
findings of internal investigations.
The Committee meets four times a year, on each occasion also
meeting the External Auditors to discuss the interim accounts
and the Annual Report and Accounts as well as internal control
including the work of Internal Audit, risk assessment and other
issues within the Group.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were appointed auditors in 2003
having succeeded PricewaterhouseCoopers who were appointed
in 1987. The current audit partner was appointed in 1999. 
The fees relating to non-audit services provided by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are disclosed in Note 2 to the
Accounts, summarised according to different types of work
undertaken and are less than  0.1m. The main area of non-audit
work relates to advice provided to the Company in connection
with the operation and valuation of the pension scheme. The
Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work
undertaken and has concluded this level of fee does not affect
the independence of the Audit. Appointments in respect of 
non-audit work receive the prior approval of the Audit
Committee.
Remuneration Committee
J Martin (Chairman)
R B Jones
R G Williams
B Duckworth
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are
outlined in the Remuneration report on page 39.
Under Resolution 2, the Remuneration Committee report will
be put before Shareholders for adoption at the Annual General
Meeting on 5 November 2003. 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Nomination Committee
R B Jones (Chairman)
R G Williams
J Martin 
B Duckworth
The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include the
identification and recommendation to the Board of suitable
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee
B Duckworth (Chairman)
R G Williams
J Martin 
N Fitzsimmons
This was formed in the year and replaced the Environmental
Committee. Details are included in the Corporate Social
Responsibility review on pages 22 to 25.
Internal Control
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for
the Group's systems of internal control and for monitoring their
effectiveness. However, in reviewing the effectiveness of internal
control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key business activities including land acquisition, product
design, specification and procurement and information 
technology are controlled by the Executive Directors. All
activity is organised within a defined structure with formal 
lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a 
structured reporting framework.
A formalised reporting structure is established within the Group.
The Executive Board, comprising the Executive Directors and
the Group Company Secretary meet monthly to discuss the
Group's key issues, risks and opportunities. Similarly, each
Region holds a Regional Board Meeting, chaired by the Regional
Chairman and attended by the Managing Directors of the 
relevant companies. These Managing Directors chair a monthly
board meeting of their own subsidiary company.
The Board has reviewed the Group's operations and processes
and has identified risk areas which have been assessed for their
potential impact and internal controls in relation to those risks
have been assessed. The Executive Board through its regular
meetings reviews the areas of risk on an on-going basis and 
considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to
those risks are appropriate. This procedure also takes place at
Regional Board Meetings on a quarterly basis. The Audit
Committee also reviews its assessment of risk at twice yearly
meetings. The key features of the Group's internal controls are 
as follows:
  A Policy and Procedures Manual covers all the 
significant aspects of the Group's operations and 
describes the systems and controls that are to be applied 
across the whole Group. The Manual is reviewed and 
updated with amendments being signed off by an 
Executive Director. The Board of each trading entity is 
required to formally confirm on an annual basis that 
they have complied in all material respects with these 
procedures.
  Defined authorisation levels established over key areas 
such as land purchase and the placing of orders and 
contracts.
  A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance
and reviewed at each of the Main, Executive, Regional 
and subsidiary company board meetings. Annual budgets
are set and monthly forecasts prepared, with actual
performance compared against the annual budget and
updated forecasts.
  The Group's systems provide weekly updates on key 
statistics in relation to sales and production. In addition,
daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying
significant payments are prepared.
  On an annual basis, strategic plans are prepared and 
reviewed which cover key aspects of the Group's 
operations and identifies medium term objectives and 
areas of risk to the business.
In addition to the above, the Group has an Internal Audit 
function which has direct reporting to the Audit Committee.
The annual work programme of Internal Audit is approved in
advance by the Audit Committee and commented upon by the
External Auditors. The Internal Audit function updates the
Audit Committee on its work at their meetings. All reports are
distributed to the Board as well as to the External Auditors.