 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Combined Code
The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and has considered the requirements of
the Combined Code adopted by the Stock Exchange.
The Directors confirm that, with the exception set out below,
the Group has complied with Section 1 throughout the year
ended 30 June 2002.
Under provision B.1.6, the deferred element of the Redrow Long
Term Share Incentive Plan (LTSIP), which was in operation
from July 1996 to June 2000, vests in the participants in under
three years. This was considered justified having regard to the
total executive remuneration package during that time. An
amendment was made to the Redrow LTSIP following the
Annual General Meeting on 13 October 2000 such that options
awarded to Directors in respect of years after June 2000 do not
vest in the participants for a period of three years.  Details are
set out in the Remuneration report on page 35.
Under provision D.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Company is
required to report on internal control. The Company's report on
internal control can be found on page 34 within this Corporate
governance statement.
Board and committees
The Board of Redrow plc comprises of six Executive and four
Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors comprise not
less than one third of the Board and all Non-Executive Directors
are considered to be independent. The Board is responsible to
Shareholders for the management of the Company and for the
protection of its assets. The Board meets regularly on a formal
basis and not less than ten times a year.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for the Board including
authorisation of major land acquisitions and contracts, approval
of budgets and accounts and monitoring of business performance.
Strategy on interest rate and currency exposures is also reserved
for the Board.
R B Jones is the Non-Executive Chairman and P L Pedley is the
Chief Executive. The Senior Non-Executive Director is J Martin
who was re-appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Director on 
26 February 2002.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and the Board acknowledges that in 
certain circumstances individual Directors may wish to take
independent professional advice in connection with their duties.
The Company will meet the reasonable expenses incurred in 
this regard.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees,
the members of which are as follows and each comprises entirely
of Non-Executive Directors.
Audit Committee
R G Williams (Chairman)
R B Jones
J Martin
B Duckworth
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the
appointment of and liaison with External Auditors, the review 
of annual and interim financial statements, the review of the
statement on internal control and consideration of any major
findings of internal investigations.
The Committee meets with the External Auditors four times a
year to discuss the interim accounts and the Annual Report and
Accounts as well as internal control including the work of
Internal Audit, risk assessment and other issues within the
Group.
PricewaterhouseCoopers were appointed auditors in 1987 and
the current audit partner was appointed in 1999. 
The fees relating to non-audit services provided by
PricewaterhouseCoopers are disclosed in Note 2 to the
Accounts, summarised according to different types of work
undertaken and are less than  0.1m. The main area of non-audit
work relates to advice provided to the Company in connection
with the operation and valuation of the pension scheme. The
Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work
undertaken and has concluded this level of fee does not affect
the independence of the Audit. Future appointments in respect
of non-audit work will be approved by the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee
J Martin (Chairman)
R B Jones
R G Williams
B Duckworth
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include the
agreement of terms of employment, the granting of bonuses,
share options or share incentive plans relating to the Directors of
the Company as may be appropriate from time to time as well as
the appointment or removal of any Company nominated trustee
of any pension or retirement benefit scheme of the Company
and its subsidiaries. The Committee meets as required but at
least twice a year.
Under Resolution 2, the Remuneration Committee report will
be put before Shareholders for adoption at the Annual General
Meeting on 4 November 2002.
Nomination Committee
R B Jones (Chairman)
R G Williams
J Martin 
B Duckworth
P L Pedley resigned as a member of the Nomination Committee
on 26 February 2002.
The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include the
identification and recommendation to the Board of suitable
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Environmental Committee
R B Jones (Chairman)
R G Williams
J Martin 
B Duckworth 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
The Environmental Committee oversees not only environmental
issues relating to Redrow plc but also community and ethical
issues. During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved
the Corporate Social Responsibility Charter  adopted in March
2002 which is summarised below and Developing a better
future  which documents Redrow's environmental strategy, 
community involvement and role in education. 
Copies of this document are available on the Company's website
at www.redrow.co.uk.
Corporate responsibility and business ethics
In March 2002, the Board adopted a  Corporate Social
Responsibility Charter'.  The Charter provides guidelines 
regarding the Group's relationships with employees, 
customers, suppliers and shareholders as well as its involvement
in community and environmental issues.  The main features of
the Charter are as follows:
Employees
  Clear and fair terms of employment through a letter of 
appointment and Staff Handbook with maximum 
standard hours of work and fixed holiday entitlements.  
All employees over the age of 18 are entitled to join the
pension scheme and private medical insurance is 
available to all monthly paid staff.
 A commitment to equal opportunities for and 
prevention of harassment of all staff with a clearly 
defined grievance procedure.  
 All staff are appraised annually which includes the 
setting of future performance goals. Opportunities are 
provided through in-house training and external 
courses for employees to develop their skills. 
 A Health & Safety policy relating to operations on 
development sites and within offices communicated to 
all employees endorsed by the Executive Directors and 
supported by a dedicated in-house Health & Safety 
department that reports monthly directly to the Board.
Customers
 A reservation process that sets out the relationship with 
the customer and the requirements placed on the 
customer during the transaction.
  Provision of a comprehensive customer care service post 
completion in addition to the NHBC or similarly 
recognised 10-year warranty.
  Post completion surveys of customers to identify issues 
and opinions in relation to the buying experience and 
product.
Suppliers
  Clearly defined orders setting out the terms and 
conditions of business with payments made in 
accordance with those terms and conditions.
  Buying procedures including requirements regarding 
ethical relationships with suppliers.
  Regular surveys of key suppliers regarding the 
relationship with each relevant business unit within the 
Group.
Community and Environment
 A policy of involvement in communities in areas of 
operation with a focus on promotion to children of 
safety awareness.
  Adoption of an environmental strategy that is a core 
part of Group objectives with a focus on use of 
brownfield land, waste management and energy 
efficiency.
  Support for the link between the corporate sector and 
the community via membership of Business in the 
Community .
Shareholders
 A policy of meetings with major Shareholders and an 
opportunity for all Shareholders to put questions to the 
Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
  Clearly set out internal control procedures summarised 
in the Annual Report to provide reasonable assurance 
against misstatement or loss.
Internal control
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for
the Group's systems of internal control and for monitoring their
effectiveness. However, in reviewing the effectiveness of internal
control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key business activities including land acquisition, product
design, specification and procurement and information 
technology are controlled by the Executive Directors. All
activity is organised within a defined structure with formal 
lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a 
structured reporting framework.
The Board has reviewed its operations and has identified risk
areas which have been assessed for their potential impact and
internal controls in relation to those risks have been identified.
The Executive Directors through quarterly meetings review the 
areas of risk on an on-going basis and consider whether the
internal controls identified in relation to those risks are 
appropriate. This procedure also takes place at Regional Board
Meetings on a quarterly basis. The Audit Committee also
reviews its assessment of risk at twice yearly meetings. The key
features of the Group's internal controls are as follows:
 A Policy and Procedures Manual covers all the 
significant aspects of the Group's operations and 
describes the systems and controls that are to be applied 
across the whole Group. The Manual is reviewed and 
updated with amendments being signed off by an 
Executive Director. The Board of each trading entity is 
required to formally confirm on an annual basis that 
they have complied in all material respects with these 
procedures.
  Defined authorisation levels established over key areas 
such as land purchase and the placing of orders and 
contracts.
 A formalised reporting structure which includes the 
setting of annual budgets with updated forecasts during 
the year which are considered at both Regional and 
Group Board level. In addition, each trading entity has a
monthly Board meeting at which all key aspects of the 
business are discussed including comparison of actual 
performance with budgets and updated forecasts.
  The Group's systems provide weekly updates on key 
statistics in relation to sales and production. In addition,
daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying
significant payments are prepared.
  On an annual basis, each trading entity is required to 
prepare a strategic plan which covers key aspects of the 
operation and identifies medium term objectives and 
areas of risk to the business.
In addition to the above, the Group has an Internal Audit 
function which has direct reporting to the Audit Committee.
The annual work programme of Internal Audit is approved in
advance by the Audit Committee and commented upon by the
External Auditors. The Internal Audit function updates the
Audit Committee on its work at each meeting. All reports are
distributed to the Group Board as well as to the External
Auditors.