 Redstone plc Annual Report 2013
18
cO rpO rate G Overnance s t atement
corporate Governance
As an AIM listed Company Redstone plc is not required to comply with the principles and provisions of the 2010 
UK Corporate Governance Code however the Board of Redstone plc is committed to the principles of good 
corporate governance.
the board of directors
At the financial year end the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman (Richard Ramsay), the Chief Executive Officer 
(Tony Weaver), the Chief Financial Officer (Peter Hallett), non-executive Director (David Payne) and Director (Ian Smith).
Following the demerger of Redcentric on 8 April 2013, Richard Ramsay stood down as non-executive Chairman and 
remains a non-executive Director. He was replaced by David Payne and Tony Weaver became a non-executive Director 
and was replaced as Chief Executive Officer by Ian Smith. On 28 June 2013, following the successful completion of the 
demerger, Peter Hallett, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, gave notice of his resignation in order to pursue new 
professional challenges. Peter has been with the business for over 4 years and has successfully completed the 
restructuring of Redstone plc and the demerger and flotation of Redcentric plc. Peter has a 12-month notice period 
and will remain as Chief Financial Officer of the Company until a successor has been recruited.
The business and management of the Company and its subsidiaries are the collective responsibility of the Board. 
At each meeting, the Board considers and reviews the trading performance of each of the trading divisions. The Board 
has a formal written schedule of matters reserved for its review and approval. These include the approval of the annual 
budget, major capital expenditure, investment proposals, the interim and annual results, and a review of the overall 
system of internal control and risk management.
There are three standing Board Committees: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration. Each of these Committees acts 
within defined terms of reference. Additional information is set out later in this report and also in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report in respect of the Remuneration Committee.
Authority for the execution of the approved policies, business plan and daily running of the business is delegated to 
the executive Directors. During the year, the Board met formally on twelve occasions with full attendance and once with 
apologies from Richard Ramsay.
David Payne is the Senior Independent non-executive Director and served throughout the year in this position. 
Subsequent to the demerger he became the non-executive Chairman and Richard Ramsay became the Senior 
Independent non-executive Director.
The Company's Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors to stand for re-election each year at the Annual 
General Meeting and that each Director should seek re-election every 3 years. In addition, Directors appointed by the 
Board during the year must seek re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting. Accordingly Richard Ramsay and 
David Payne will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. The Board has a procedure whereby any Director 
may seek, through the office of the Company Secretary, independent professional advice, at the Company's expense, 
in furtherance of his duties.
Formal agendas and reports are provided to the Board on a timely basis for Board and Committee meetings and 
the Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues to be discussed at Board meetings. Directors 
are able to obtain further advice or seek clarity on issues raised at the meetings from within the Company or from 
external sources.
All Directors are subject to appraisal by the Board. The non-executive Directors are responsible for the evaluation 
of the Chairman. Redstone plc Annual Report 2013
Business ReviewGovernance  
Financial s tatements 19
nominations committee
The Nominations Committee consists of David Payne (Chairman) and Richard Ramsay.
For nominations, the Committee meets as and when necessary to consider the appointment of new executive and 
non-executive Directors.
A process is in place for the appointment of new Directors involving the use of external consultants followed by 
meetings with both the Committee and subsequently with the Board as a whole, together with the Company Secretary. 
This ensures that the selection process is both formal and objective. The Committee has formal terms of reference 
(available on request from the Company Secretary) and meets at least once a year to review succession planning at both 
Board and senior management level across the Group.
During the year, the Committee met formally on two occasions and there were no absences from the meetings.
remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of David Payne (Chairman) and Richard Ramsay.
Details of the Committee and its policies are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 23. 
The Committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary).
During the year, the Committee met formally on two occasions. There were no absences from the formal meetings.
audit committee
The Audit Committee consists of Richard Ramsay (Chairman) and David Payne.
The Committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary). These include the 
recommendation of, appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, the review of the scope and 
results of the interim review and external annual audit by the auditors, their cost-effectiveness, independence and 
objectivity. The Committee also reviews the nature and extent of any non-audit services provided by the external 
auditors. In addition, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, considers the need for an internal 
audit function and considers any major accounting issues and reports on such matters to the Board. The Committee 
reviews the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements. A whistle-blowing arrangement exists 
whereby matters can be confidentially reported to the Committee. The executive Directors are not members of the 
Committee but attend the meetings by invitation, as necessary, to facilitate its business.
The Chief Financial Officer monitors the level and nature of non-audit services and specific assignments are flagged for 
approval by the Audit Committee as appropriate. The Audit Committee reviews non-audit fees and considers 
implications for the objectivity and independence of the relationship with the external auditors.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience necessary 
to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Committee met on two occasions during the year and there were no absences from the meetings. Redstone plc Annual Report 2013
20
internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of 
the executive Directors and senior management. The internal control system is designed to manage risk rather than 
eliminate it and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the Group has an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by it. 
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of business conduct and operates under an established internal 
control framework covering financial, operational and compliance controls. This is achieved through an organisational 
structure that has clear reporting lines and delegated authorities. The reporting lines and delegated authorities are 
clearly defined. The management and monitoring of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the 
Group. In addition, the Group maintains written processes to control expenditure, authorisation limits, purchase 
ordering, sales order intake, project management, inventories and assets.
The Board receives monthly financial information which includes key performance and risk indicators and the 
Chief Executive reports on significant changes in the business and the external marketplace to the extent they 
represent significant risk. There is an established budgetary system with an annual budget approved by the Board. 
The Board reviews the results monthly against budget, forecasts and prior year actual figures together with other 
business measures.
The principal treasury related risks are documented and approved by the Board. Details of derivatives and financial 
instruments are set out in notes 23 and 24 to the financial statements.
relations with shareholders and investors
Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts are issued to all shareholders and copies are available on the Group's 
website www.redstone.com. The Half Year Report is also available on the Group's website. The Group makes full use 
of its website to provide information to shareholders and other interested parties. The Company Secretary also deals 
with a number of written or e-mailed enquiries throughout the year.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to raise questions at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors are available 
both prior to and after the meeting for further discussion with shareholders.
During the year, the non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer met with 
institutional investors after the announcement of the interim and year end results. Additional meetings were arranged 
during the year by the Group's brokers, finnCap Limited. Feedback arising from these meetings was communicated 
to the Board and the Company Secretary also reported to the Board on feedback from shareholders.
David Payne, as Senior Independent non-executive Director, is available to shareholders if they wish to raise any matters 
that contact through the normal channels of non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or 
Company Secretary has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
cO rpO rate G Overnance s t atement
Con Tinued