 91
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012
Financial statements and other information Governance Financial review Business review Overview
Report of the Audit Committees
This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of 
Reed  Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in conjunction with the 
Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc (the Committees) 
and has been approved by the respective Boards. It provides an 
overview of the membership, responsibilities and activities of 
the Committees. The functions of an audit committee in respect 
of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory 
Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV. The Reed Elsevier PLC and 
Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the 
perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have 
access to the reports to and the work of the Reed Elsevier Group 
plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV 
Supervisory Board in this respect.
Membership
The Committees comprise at least three independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The members of each of the 
Committees that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer 
(Chairman of the Committees), Sir David Reid, Adrian Hennah, 
Lisa Hook (until May 2012) and Linda Sanford (from appointment 
in December 2012). Sir David Reid and Adrian Hennah, both UK 
chartered accountants, and Ben van der Veer , a registered 
accountant in the Netherlands, are considered to have significant, 
recent and relevant financial experience. Sir David Reid has 
served on the Audit Committees for more than nine years and after 
having determined that he remained independent in character and 
judgement and there were also no relationships or circumstances 
which are likely to affect his independent judgement, he has 
remained a member of the Audit Committees to allow for an 
orderly transition to newly appointed directors.
Responsibilities
The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are to assist 
the respective Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities 
regarding the integrity of Reed Elsevier's interim and financial 
statements and reporting process, risk management and internal 
controls, the external auditors' effectiveness, performance, 
qualifications and independence and the performance of the 
internal auditors. The Committees report to the respective Boards 
on their activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they 
consider that action or improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed 
annually and a copy of each is published on the Reed Elsevier 
website, www.reedelsevier .com. 
Principal activities
The Committees met five times during 2012. The Audit Committee 
meetings are typically attended by the Chief Executive Officer , the 
Chief Financial Officer , the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial 
controller , the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer , chief 
risk officer and director of internal audit, and audit partners of the 
external auditors. Additionally, the managing director and senior 
representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance 
BV attend the July and February meetings of the parent company 
Audit Committees.
In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the 2012 
financial year , the Committees have:
(i) received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group 
plc group financial controller that set out areas of significance 
in the preparation of the financial statements, including: 
review of the carrying values of goodwill and intangible 
assets, disposals, application of revenue recognition and 
cost capitalisation policies, review of uncertain tax positions, 
provisions for lease obligations, and the use of the going 
concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements. 
The Committees also received written reports from the 
external auditors summarising the most significant findings 
from their audit work.
(ii) reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance 
with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure 
requirements and received regular update reports on 
accounting and regulatory developments.
(iii) received and discussed regular reports from the Reed 
Elsevier Group plc chief risk officer and director of internal 
audit summarising the status of Reed Elsevier risk 
management activities and the findings from internal audit 
reviews and the actions agreed with management. Areas 
of focus in 2012 included: management of investment 
programmes; regulatory compliance and review of 
information security including the management of data 
privacy; business continuity planning; and continued 
compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the 
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation 
and testing of internal controls over financial reporting.
(iv) reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2012 
and monitored execution, including progress in respect of 
recommendations made. Reviewed the resources, terms of 
reference and effectiveness of the Reed Elsevier Group plc 
risk management and internal audit functions.
(v) received presentations from: the Reed Elsevier Group plc 
chief compliance officer on the compliance programmes, 
including the operation of Reed Elsevier's codes of conduct, 
training programmes, whistleblowing arrangements and 
procedures in respect of the UK Bribery Act requirements; 
the Reed Elsevier Inc. general counsel on the management 
of data privacy, security and compliance;  the Reed Elsevier 
Group plc IT security officer on information technology 
security; and the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer 
on legal issues and claims.
(vi) received updates from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group 
treasurer on pension arrangements and funding, treasury 
policies and risk management, compliance with treasury 
policies, and global insurance arrangements.
(vii) received presentations from the Reed Elsevier Group plc 
head of group taxation on tax policies and related matters.
(viii) received regular updates from the chief financial officer on 
developments within the finance function.
(ix) received presentations on a rotational basis from the chief 
financial officers of major businesses on the priorities for 
the finance functions and the risk management and internal 
control activities. 92
GOVERNANCE
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES
External audit effectiveness
Reed Elsevier has a well established policy on audit effectiveness 
and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the 
responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of 
auditors to be proposed for appointment or reappointment and for 
agreement on the terms of their engagement and the scope of the 
annual audit; the auditor independence requirements and the 
policy on the provision of non audit services; the rotation of audit 
partners and staff; and the conduct of meetings between the 
auditors and the Audit Committees. The policy is available on the 
Reed Elsevier website, www.reedelsevier .com. 
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non audit services 
that would compromise their independence or violate any 
professional requirements or regulations affecting their 
appointment as auditors. The auditors may, however , provide non 
audit services which do not conflict with their independence, and 
where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier , 
subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees. The Committees 
have, each quarter , reviewed and agreed the non audit services 
provided in 2012, together with the associated fees which are 
set out in note 3 to the combined financial statements. The non 
audit services provided were in the areas of tax compliance, due 
diligence and other transaction related services. In compliance 
with recent Dutch regulatory developments, from 2013 non 
audit services performed in the Netherlands will be limited to 
audit related activities, subject to transitional arrangements for 
engagements already in progress. The Committees will consider 
further policy amendments during the course of 2013 as the scope 
of this regulatory change is clarified.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit 
partners responsible for the audit engagements every five years. 
The lead engagement partner for Reed Elsevier PLC has now 
completed his fourth year of auditing Reed Elsevier's financial 
statements and the lead engagement partner for Reed Elsevier 
NV has completed three years. Any decision to open the audit to 
tender is taken only on the recommendation of the Committees. 
The external auditors have confirmed their independence 
and compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor 
independence.
The Committees have monitored regulatory developments in 
the UK and the Netherlands and will consider auditor tender 
and rotation in line with the transitional arrangements set out 
in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and recent Dutch 
legislation. Any further developments in 2013 will be studied 
when considering the appointment of auditors for future years.
The Committees conducted an annual review during 2012 of the 
performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of 
the external audit process for the year ended 31 December 2011. 
Based on this review, and on their subsequent observations 
on the planning and execution of the external audit for the year 
ended 31 December 2012, the Committees have recommended 
to the respective Boards that resolutions for the reappointment 
of the external auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meetings. Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants 
BV or their predecessor Deloitte firms were first appointed 
respectively auditors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV 
for the financial year ended 31 December 1994. In addition to the 
annual review of the performance of the external auditors and 
the effectiveness of the audit process, at least every four years, 
the Committees will consider whether the objectives of the audit 
would be better served through a formal tender process for the 
auditor appointment.
The effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees was 
reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the Boards in 
February 2013.
Ben van der Veer
Chairman of the Audit Committees 
27 February 2013