 Report of the Audit Committees
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 27
This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction
with the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, (the
Committees ) and has been approved by the respective
boards.
The report meets the requirements of The Combined Code
of Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial
Services Authority.
AUDIT COMMITTEES
The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in
relation to the respective companies are set out in written
terms of reference and include:
(i) to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of
the company, and any formal announcements relating
to the company's financial performance, reviewing
significant financial reporting judgements contained in
them;
(ii) to review the company's internal financial controls and
the company's internal control and risk management
systems;
(iii) to monitor and review the effectiveness of the company's
internal audit function;
(iv) to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to
the shareholders for their approval in general meetings,
in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and
removal of the external auditor and to approve the
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external
auditor;
(v) to review and monitor the external auditor's
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of
the audit process, taking into consideration relevant
professional and regulatory requirements; and
(vi) to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of
the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking
into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the
provision of non-audit services by the external audit
firm, and to monitor compliance.
The Committees report to the respective boards on their
activities identifying any matters in respect of which they
consider that action or improvement is needed and making
recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this
role in respect of the publishing and information operating
business. The functions of an audit committee in respect of
the financing activities are carried out by the supervisory
board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV. The Reed Elsevier PLC
and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles
from the perspective of the parent companies and both
committees have access to the reports to and the work of
the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the
Elsevier Reed Finance BV supervisory board in this respect. 
The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any
matters within their terms of reference and have access to
all resources and information that they may require for this
purpose. The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and
other independent professional advice and have the
authority to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee
is published on the Reed Elsevier website
(www.reedelsevier .com).
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
The Committees each comprise at least three independent
non-executive directors, at least one of which has
significant, recent and relevant financial experience. The
current members of each of the Committees are: Lord
Sharman (Chairman of the Committees), John Brock and
David Reid (appointed April 2003). 
Lord Sharman (61), a chartered accountant, spent his
professional career at KPMG and now serves as non-
executive chairman of Aegis Group plc and Securicor plc
and is a member of the supervisory board of ABN-AMRO
and a non-executive director of BG Group plc. He was
elected UK senior partner of KPMG in 1994 and served as
Chairman of KPMG Worldwide between 1997 and 1999.
John Brock (55) is chief executive officer of Interbrew SA
and formerly chief operating officer of Cadbury Schweppes
plc. David Reid (57), a chartered accountant, was until
December 2003 executive deputy chairman of Tesco PLC,
with responsibility for strategy, business development and
international operations; he was previously its finance
director and is its non-executive chairman designate.
During the 2003 financial year, until April 2003, Rolf
Stomberg, Roelof Nelissen and Steven Perrick served on
the Committees, all being non executive directors and, other
than Mr Perrick, independent. Mr Stomberg is the senior
independent non executive director and his biographical
details are set out in the Reed Elsevier Annual Review.
Mr Nelissen has served on a number of supervisory boards
and is a former chairman of the managing board of ABN
AMRO. Mr Perrick is a partner in Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer in the Netherlands, an international firm of
advisers which provides legal advice to Reed Elsevier.
Appointments to the Committees are made on the
recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are for
periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than
two additional three-year periods, so long as the member
continues to be independent. Details of the remuneration
policy in respect of members of the Committees and the
remuneration paid to members for the year ended
31 December 2003 are set out in the Directors'
Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 38.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year:
around January, February, June, August and December, and
report on these meetings to the respective boards at the
next board meetings. The principal business of these
meetings includes:
- January: review of critical accounting policies and
practices, and significant financial reporting issues and
judgements made in connection with the annual financial REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES
28 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
statements; review of internal control effectiveness;
reviewing and approving the internal audit plan; review of
internal audit findings
- February: review and approval of annual financial
statements, results announcement and related formal
statements; review of external audit findings
- June: monitoring and assessing the qualification,
performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and
independence of the external auditors and the
effectiveness of the external and internal audit process;
agreeing the external audit plan; reviewing significant
financial reporting issues and judgements arising in
connection with the interim financial statements; review of
risk management activities; review of report from external
auditors on control matters; review of internal audit
findings
- August: review and approval of the interim financial
statements, results announcement and related formal
statements; review of external audit findings; review of
internal audit findings
- December: review of year end financial reporting and
accounting issues; review of significant external financial
reporting and regulatory developments; review of external
audit findings to date; review of internal audit findings.
The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by
the chief financial officer, group chief accountant, director of
internal audit and senior representatives of the external
auditors. Additionally, the managing director and senior
representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed
Finance BV attend the August and February meetings of the
parent company Audit Committees. At two or more of the
meetings each year, the Committees additionally meet
separately with the external auditors without management
present, and also with the director of internal audit.
In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of
the 2003 financial year, the Committees have:
(i) received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier
Group plc group chief accountant that set out areas of
significance in the preparation of the financial
statements, including: review of the carrying values of
goodwill and intangible assets for possible impairment,
review of estimated useful lives of goodwill and
intangible assets, pensions accounting and related
assumptions, accounting treatment for acquisitions and
disposals and exceptional items, application of revenue
recognition and cost capitalisation and provisioning
policies, review of tax reserves and provisions for lease
obligations. Discussion of reporting matters has
additionally focused on the adoption of UK GAAP by
Reed Elsevier NV, the format and content of the
operating and financial review to meet the new UK best
practice guidelines, and compliance with the new SEC
restrictions on the use of non-GAAP financial measures
in the Annual Report on Form 20-F. 
(ii) reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance
with applicable accounting standards and other
disclosure requirements and have received regular
update reports on accounting and regulatory
developments, including in relation to International
Accounting Standards.
(iii) received and discussed regular reports on the
management of material risks and reviewed the
effectiveness of the systems of internal control. As part
of this review, detailed internal control evaluation and
self-certification is obtained from management across
the operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit and
discussed with the Committees. 
(iv) received and discussed regular reports from the director
of internal audit summarising the status of the Reed
Elsevier risk management activities and the findings
from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed with
management. An area of focus in 2003 has been the
development and agreement of plans to meet the new
requirements, effective for the 2005 financial year, of
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the
documentation and testing of internal financial controls.
(v) reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2003
and monitored execution. Reviewed the resources and
budget of the internal audit function. 
The external auditors have attended all meetings of the
Committees. They have provided written reports at the
August, December and February meetings summarising the
most significant findings from their audit work. These
reports have been discussed by the Committees and actions
agreed where necessary. 
The external auditors have confirmed their independence
from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier
policy on auditor independence. This policy sets out inter
alia the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and
other senior partners, as well as guidelines for the provision
of permitted non-audit services. The Committees have
reviewed and agreed the non-audit services provided by the
external auditors, together with the associated fees. The
external auditors' fees for audit services have been reviewed
and approved by the Committees. 
Based on their observations on the planning and execution
of the external audits, the Committees have recommended
to the respective boards that resolutions for the
re-appointment of the external auditors be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meetings. At their meeting in
June 2004, the Committees will conduct a more formal
review of the performance of the auditors and the
effectiveness of the audit process for both the external and
internal audit activities.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch
Chairman of the Audit Committees
18 February 2004