 16   Corporate governance
Report and Accounts 2012  |  Regenersis Plc  
Directors' Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited 
fi nancial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Principal activities
Regenersis is a leading, strategic outsource partner to the 
world's premier consumer technology brands. We specialise 
in the fi eld of after-sales, enabling our clients to defi ne and 
deliver cost effective service propositions that reinforce their 
brands and build stronger relationships with their customers.
We achieve this by creating solutions that leverage our 
market knowledge, technical expertise and customer insight. 
Clients benefi t from accelerated delivery of solutions by 
taking advantage of our innovative products and services.
Our dedication to improve the end-to-end customer 
experience and, at the same time, to reduce the total cost of 
after-sales make us unique in our market place. As a result, 
our clients choose Regenersis to manage (i) the lifecycle of 
their products from the preparation and introduction of new 
products to market; (ii) call centres providing technical and 
customer support; (iii) warranty management and insurance 
fulfi lment; (iv) fully integrated repair avoidance; (v) returns 
management and technical repair; and (vi) the refurbishment 
and recommerce of devices.
Business review and future developments
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to 
include a business review in this report. The information that 
fulfi ls the requirements of the business review can be found in 
the Chairman's Statement on page 4, and the Business and 
Financial Review on pages 6 to 13 which is incorporated in 
this report by reference. These reports also include details 
of expected future developments in the business of the 
Group, principal risks and uncertainties and details of key 
performance indicators deployed by management.
The Business and Financial Review has been prepared to 
provide the Company's shareholders with a fair review of 
its business and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing it. It should not be relied upon by anyone, 
including the Company's shareholders, for any other purpose.
Results and dividends
The audited accounts for the Group for the year 
ended 30 June 2012 are set out on pages 28 to 64. 
The Group profi t for the year after taxation was  1.4million 
(2011:  0.8 million loss). The Board recommends the 
payment of a fi nal dividend of 1.1pence per ordinary share 
to be paid on 5 December 2012 to shareholders on the 
register on 9 November 2012.
Directors
Details of changes to the Board during the year and of the 
Directors offering themselves for re-appointment at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 18 to 21.
Details of Directors' service agreements are set out in the 
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 24.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company 
are set out on page 24.
Full biographical details of the Company's Directors are 
given on pages 14 and 15.
Directors' liability insurance and indemnities
The Company maintains liability insurance for the Directors 
and offi cers of all Group companies. The policy does not 
provide cover in the event that a Director or offi cer is proved 
to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Indemnities are in force under which the Company has 
agreed to indemnify the Directors to the extent permitted 
by applicable law and the Company's articles of association 
in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, 
the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as 
Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Supplier payment policy
The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it 
enters into binding purchase contracts. The Group seeks to 
abide by the payment terms agreed whenever it is satisfi ed 
that the supplier has provided the goods or services 
in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. 
The Group seeks to treat all suppliers fairly, but it does not 
have a Group-wide standard or code of practice that deals 
specifi cally with payment to suppliers. Trade payables at 
30 June 2012 represented on average 31 days credit 
based on actual invoices received (2011: 44 days credit).
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company at 30 June 2012 
was  896,405, comprised of 44,820,252 ordinary shares 
of two pence each of which 2,150,000 are designated as 
treasury shares.
The Directors will be seeking authority at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting to renew their authority to allot shares 
(Resolution 8 and 9) and also a further authority enabling 
the Company to purchase its own shares (Resolution 10). 
Full details of these resolutions, together with explanatory 
notes, are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
on pages 65 to 70.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 21 September 2012, the following shareholders own 
more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company:
% of issued 
share capital 
Number of 
shares
Hanover Investors Management LLP 22.79 10,213,351
Torch Capital (BVI) Limited 12.69 5,687,500
Impax Asset Management Limited 9.94 4,455,514
Gordon Sydney Shields 8.92 3,997,966
Fidelity Investments 4.97 2,225,413
Regenersis EBT 4.80 2,150,000
Aviva Investors 4.43 1,986,328
Ignis Investment Services Limited 4.09 1,833,200 Corporate governance   17
Business overview Financial statements Other information Corporate governance
Regenersis Plc  |  Report and Accounts 2012
Fixed assets
In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference 
between the book value and the current open market value 
of the Group's interests in land and buildings.
Charitable and political donations
The Group made no direct charitable donations during 
the year. However, certain clients direct the Group to 
pay their entitlement under commercial arrangements to 
various charities.
Going concern
As highlighted in note 26 to the fi nancial statements, the Group 
meets its day to day working capital requirements through a 
bank facility which is due for renewal on 31 October 2015.
Further information on the Group's business activities, 
together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Business and 
Financial Review on pages 6 to 13. Further information on the 
fi nancial position of the Group, its cash fl ows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Business and 
Financial Review on 10 and 11. In addition, note 26 to the 
fi nancial statements details the Group's objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group's forecasts and projections, taking account of 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group 
should be able to operate within the level of its current facility.
After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the annual report 
and accounts.
Subsequent events
On 31 August 2012, the Group completed its acquisition of all 
of the issued share capital of Plataforma HDM T cnologica 
S.A. and Plataforma HDM Tecnologica S.A. de C.V and 
the trade and assets of HDM Plataforma Log stica S.L., 
HDM Soluciones Integrales de Reparacion S.L. and HDM 
Moviltech Servicio T cnico S.L. together comprising the 
entire operations of the HDM Group of Companies (HDM ) 
for an initial consideration of  6.5million on a cash- and 
debt-free basis.
The initial consideration includes  5.85million funded through 
the Group's existing banking facilities, and the remaining 
 0.65 million through the issuance of 587,571 ordinary shares.
In addition to this  6.5million initial consideration, a capped 
earn-out will be payable on 30 September 2015, based on 
the EBIT achieved in the year to June 2015.
HDM is a leading provider of aftermarket services, including 
reverse logistics and repair, to network operators and mobile 
telephone manufacturers in Spain, Mexico and Argentina. 
HDM's key customers include Telefonica, Samsung and Nokia.
The addition of high-quality business in Spain, where HDM 
has a 20% market share in mobile repair, signifi cantly 
enhances Regenersis' European customer proposition. 
The acquisition also provides a strong exposure to new 
Emerging Markets and a platform for further future 
expansion into Latin America.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held 
on Wednesday 21 November 2012 at the offi ces of Arden 
Partners, 125 Old Broad Street, London, EC2N 1AR. The 
Notice setting out details of the business to be considered at 
the meeting is included on pages 65 to 70.
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to 
continue in offi ce as auditors and a resolution proposing 
their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, 
each Director serving at the date of approval of the fi nancial 
statements confi rms that:
  to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of 
which the Company's auditors are unaware; and
  each Director has taken all the steps a Director might 
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware 
of relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company's auditors are aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this confi rmation should 
be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Employees
The Group keeps its employees informed of matters 
affecting them as employees through regular team briefi ngs 
throughout the year. Applications for employment by 
disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all 
vacancies in accordance with their particular aptitudes and 
abilities. In the event of employees becoming disabled, every 
effort is made to retain them in order that their employment 
with the Group may continue. It is the policy of the Group that 
training, career development and promotion opportunities 
should be available to all employees.
The average number of employees within the Group is shown 
in note 9 to the fi nancial statements on page 41.
By order of the Board
Jog Dhody
Chief Financial Offi cer
Regenersis Plc
4th Floor, 32 Wigmore Street
London W1U 2RP
25 September 2012