 25 Regent Inns
Report on Corporate Governance
Application of principles
The Company regards compliance with the principles of good corporate 
governance to be important. The statement below describes how these 
principles are applied to the Company and how, in the Company's view, 
it has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 
1 of the Combined Code except where stated below.
Board of Directors
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading 
and controlling the Company by meeting regularly, normally monthly, 
and when necessary for any matters which may arise between 
meetings to fulfil the ongoing requirements of the business. Each year 
the Board reviews its own performance and arranges suitable training 
where appropriate. The Board consists of four Executive and three 
Non-Executive Directors. Alan Jackson has been appointed Senior 
Non-Executive Director. 
Having given due regard to the small size of the Company and its 
financial position, it was decided that combining the roles of 
Chairman and Chief Executive would be in the Company's best 
interests. The Board is satisfied that this arrangement, whilst not 
strictly in compliance with the Combined Code, continues to be  
in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
Jim Glover and John Laurie are independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Alan Jackson is a Director of The Restaurant Group  
and Bob Ivell was a Director of The Restaurant Group until 8 
September 2006. 
The Board has established a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved to it for decision and delegates certain powers to the Board 
Committees and Executive Directors. The schedule of reserved 
matters includes acquisitions and disposals, approval of trading and 
capital budgets, Group borrowing facilities and financing structure, 
the monitoring of operational performance and the appointment of 
professional advisers.
The Board has a formal and transparent process in place for  
the appointment of new Directors and every Director is provided  
with opportunities for training to enable them to carry out their  
duties effectively.
As part of the Corporate Governance process, the Board regularly 
reviews other key functions with senior management. 
Supply of information
Information is supplied to the Board in a timely fashion prior to the 
monthly Board meetings to enable the Directors to consider the 
issues for discussion and the minutes are circulated to all Board 
members. The amount and content of the information provided is 
regularly reviewed to meet the needs of the business. 
Dialogue with shareholders
The Directors encourage and seek to build up a mutual understanding 
of objectives between the Company and all its shareholders.
As part of this process, the Executive Chairman and Chief Financial 
Officer maintain contact with institutional shareholders through 
regular meetings and twice yearly presentations following the results 
and feedback from the Company's stockbrokers. In addition, all the 
Board are available to meet with shareholders who have specific 
interests or concerns and are kept aware of changes in major 
shareholders in the Company.
Shareholders are able to access useful information on the Company's 
website which can be found at www.regentinns.co.uk.
Annual General Meetings
The Directors also encourage communication with private 
shareholders and welcome their participation at the Annual General 
Meeting. At this meeting, the Board present a clear and balanced 
assessment of the Company's position and prospects. The level of 
proxy votes lodged and the balance for and against each resolution is 
reported to shareholders after each resolution is voted upon.
Internal control
The Board has established the ongoing procedures it considers 
necessary to identify, evaluate and manage risk. These procedures 
include regular discussion of risk in each part of the Group's activities 
and preparation of plans to minimise risks identified. These 
procedures have been in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The 
Directors consider the results of risk assessment and monitor the 
effectiveness of controls over identified risks and they consider that 
Turnbull guidance has been followed during the year.
Statement on internal control
The key features of the Group's internal control system are set  
out below:
Management structure
The Group's control environment is the responsibility of the Directors 
and individual managers at all levels. The Board has satisfied itself  
the Group has a clear organisation structure with clearly defined and 
understood responsibilities and lines of accountability.
Information systems and financial reporting
The Group prepares detailed budgets annually together with working 
capital and cash flow forecasts. These are based on the Group's 
strategy and are formally approved by the Board. Detailed accounts 
are prepared monthly, compared with budget and variances analysed. 
The Board reviews updates of the forecast for the business quarterly.
Expenditure control
Both capital and operational expenditure have a systematic control 
structure largely centred on the budgetary process together with 
defined delegation of authorities. The Board itself reviews expenditure 
above pre-set levels. Review of capital expenditure after completion 
is carried out to confirm financial targets have been met and that 
expenditure controls were diligently applied.
Risk management and internal audit
A comprehensive review of all risks in the business is carried out 
twice a year, building on similar exercises carried out in previous 
years. Risks are prioritised and agreed programmes of elimination  
or minimisation are regularly reviewed as is the risk profile itself. 
The Board has established an internal audit function to deliver an 
effective and efficient risk control system to provide assurances and 
guidance to the business to minimise risk exposure and to meet 
regulatory and internal policy requirements. This team thereby assists 
operations in achieving sales and profit plans and a safe and secure 
environment for employees and customers alike. 
Effectiveness
The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Group's performance in 
its monthly review process. Through the Audit Committee, the 
effectiveness of internal controls are regularly reviewed with, where 
appropriate, input from the Company's external auditors. 26 Regent Inns
The Board also reviews its own processes and effectiveness  
once a year.
The Board believes it has applied Turnbull guidance during the 
period. It acknowledges that the Board is responsible for the systems 
and effectiveness of internal control. The Group's control systems are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and therefore the 
Board can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material loss or misstatement.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report, the Report on Directors' Remuneration and 
the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Report on Directors' Remuneration and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for 
each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the 
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue 
in business. 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors' 
Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company's 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Board committees
In accordance with the Combined Code and corporate governance 
best practice, the Board has established a number of committees.  
All of these committees have written terms of reference approved  
by the Board.
 
 
 
 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors 
chaired by John Laurie. The Chief Financial Officer normally attends 
the meetings by invitation, and the Chairman attends if requested to 
do so by the Committee. The Company's external auditors attend the 
meetings at which the Committee considers the Company's half-year 
and final results prior to their submission to the Board.
The main duties of the Committee are as follows:
(i) monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial statements;
(ii) the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditors;
(iii) approval of the scope of the Company's risk management 
programme and review of the risk management process;
(iv) reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal audit 
function; and
(v) overseeing the establishment and maintenance of good business 
practices throughout the Group;
(vi) reviewing the Company's whistleblowing arrangements.
During the period the Committee met on four occasions in order to 
review a wide range of financial matters before making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board. These include the annual and half 
year profit figures, financial statements, trading statements and other 
regulatory information prior to general publication, and also the 
structure and performance of the internal audit function and regular 
reports from internal audit.
Remuneration and Appointments Committee
The Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors chaired 
by Alan Jackson. The Report on Director's Remuneration which has 
been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors' 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and approved by the Board, 
is set out on pages 21 to 24.
Board Attendance Chart
  
  Audit Remuneration 
 Board Committee Committee
Number of meetings in the year 16 4 5
Bob Ivell 15 2* 2*
John Leslie 16 4* 1*
David Turner 14 - -
Simon Kaye 14 - -
Alan Jackson 14 4 5
Jim Glover 13 4 5
John Laurie 6 3 -
Nigel Batchelor 4 1 3
*Not Committee members but invited to attend all or part of meetings indicated
Report on Corporate Governance 