 013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Directors is committed to
high standards of corporate governance.
It has complied throughout the year with
the Combined Code, issued by the UK
Listing Authority, which sets out the
Principles of Good Governance and the
Code of Best Practice.
A summary of the Company's
procedures for applying the principles
and the extent to which the provisions 
of the Combined Code have been
applied are set out below. 
The new Combined Code, issued in July
2003, will apply for the reporting years
beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
However, in 2003, the Board undertook
an analysis of the Group's compliance
with the new Combined Code and have
taken steps to ensure that it complies
with the requirements of the new
Combined Code by 31 December 2004.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 
The Company has complied with the
provisions set out in section 1 of the
Code of Best Practice prepared by the
Committee on Corporate Governance
and published in June 1998  the
Combined Code' throughout the year
ended 31 December 2003. 
BOARD COMPOSITION 
The Board currently comprises 
two executive directors, and three
non-executive directors (two of which
are independent), including a non-
executive chairman.   
On 2 October 2003, Mr S A Stamp, 
the Group Finance Director resigned.  
Mr R J G Lobo has been appointed
Group Finance Director on an interim
basis, and will continue to carry out the
role until a suitable candidate is found.
The Board schedules eight meetings
each year, but arranges to meet 
at other times, as appropriate.  
It has a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for its decision 
and approval.  The Board is supplied
with appropriate and timely information
to enable it to discharge its duties 
and requests additional information 
or variations to regular reporting 
as it requires.  
A procedure exists for directors to 
seek independent professional advice 
at the Company's expense in the
furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
In addition, appropriate training is made
available for all new directors to assist
them in the discharge of their
responsibilities.  
All directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary,
who is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures are followed and 
that applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with.  
All directors submit themselves for 
re-election at least every three years 
and directors appointed during the
period are required to seek re-election 
at the next AGM.
The independent non-executive 
directors understand that the Board 
will not automatically recommend their
re-election.
BOARD COMMITTEES 
The Board has a number of standing
committees, which all have written terms
of reference setting out their authority
and duties: 
Audit Committee - the members
of this Committee are Mr R G Orf
(Chairman and independent non-
executive director), Mr J W Matthews
(non-executive director) and Mr A M
Robinson (independent non-executive
director). Prior to 1 May 2003, it was
chaired by Mr J W Matthews.  
The Audit Committee meets quarterly. 
Its responsibilities, in addition to those
referred to under Internal Control, include
a critical review of the annual and interim
financial statements (including the
Board's statement on internal control 
in the annual report) prior to their
submission to the Board for approval,
when a report from the Committee 
is also given.  
The Committee also reviews the scope
and results of the external audit and its
cost effectiveness and the independence
and objectivity of the auditors. Although
other directors, including the Group
Finance Director, attend Audit Committee
meetings, the Committee can meet for
private discussions with the internal and
external auditors. 
In respect of 2003, the Audit 
Committee undertook a comprehensive
self-evaluation process.  This comprised 
a questionnaire covering their
performance and that of the external 
and internal auditors.
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to high standards 
of corporate governance.
18275_E22330_AREP.qxd  5/4/04  5:17 pm  Page 13 014
Nomination Committee - the members
of this Committee are Mr J W Matthews
(Chairman and non-executive director),
Mr R G Orf and Mr A M Robinson (both
independent non-executive directors).
The Committee meets as required. Its
responsibilities include reviewing the
Board structure, size and composition,
nominating candidates to the Board 
to fill Board vacancies when they arise
and recommending directors who are
retiring by rotation to be put forward 
for re-election. 
Remuneration Committee - the
members of this Committee are Mr A M
Robinson (Chairman and independent
non-executive director), Mr J W
Matthews (non-executive director) and
Mr R G Orf (independent non-executive
director).  A statement setting out the
role and responsibility of this Committee
and the Group's remuneration policy is
shown on page 16. 
INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Board acknowledges its overall
responsibility for the Group's system 
of internal control and for reviewing 
the effectiveness of that system 
on a timely basis. 
The internal control processes have 
been designed to identify, evaluate 
and manage the key risks that the 
Group encounters in pursuing its
objectives. Internal control processes
within the Regus Group encompass 
all controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls 
and risk management. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can
only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement. 
The Board conducts regular reviews 
of the Group's strategic direction. 
Country and regional strategic objectives,
quarterly plans and performance targets
for 2004 have been set by the executive
directors and are regularly reviewed by
the main Board in the context of the
Group's overall objectives. 
The control framework and key
procedures which were in place
throughout the year ended 31 December
2003 comprise the following: 
  The executive directors (the Group
executive ) normally meet monthly
together with certain other senior
executives to consider Group financial
performance, business development
and Group management issues.
Directors of key operating companies
meet regularly to manage their
respective businesses. 
  Major business risks and their 
financial implications are appraised 
by the responsible executives 
as a part of the budget process 
and these are endorsed by regional
management. Key risks are reported to
the Board and the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness of controls is
considered by the executives, having
regard to cost/benefit, materiality and
the likelihood of risks crystallising. 
  Country and regional budgets,
containing financial and operating
targets, capital expenditure 
proposals and performance 
indicators, are reviewed by the 
Group executive and must support
regional business strategies.
  On a monthly basis, the Board 
reviews and discusses the financial
and operational performance of the
Group and its respective regions.
  Operational and financial reports 
are prepared and distributed to the
Board on a monthly basis.  Actual
results are reviewed against budget
and forecast and explanations are
received for all material movements.
The senior management team are
integrally involved in the business 
and to this extent regularly discuss
and address issues and opportunities
with regional and functional teams.
Formal business review meetings,
chaired by the Chief Executive, Mark
Dixon, are held with the regional
teams and functional heads on a
monthly basis.
  There is a Group-wide policy
governing appraisal and approval 
of investment and capital expenditure
and asset disposals. Post investment
reviews are undertaken. 
  Other key policies and control
procedures (including finance,
operations, and health and safety)
having Group-wide application 
are available to all staff on 
web-based systems. 
The Group's internal audit remit is to
report to the Audit Committee on the
Group's worldwide operations.  Its
budget, programme of work and its
findings, including any material control
issues and resultant actions, are
reviewed quarterly.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls,
it is the Group's policy to recruit and
develop appropriately skilled
management and staff of high calibre
and integrity. 
High standards of business ethics 
and compliance with laws, regulations
and internal policies are demanded 
from staff at all levels. 
Corporate governance
It is the Group's policy to recruit and develop appropriately
skilled management and staff of high calibre and integrity. 
18275_E22330_AREP.qxd  5/4/04  5:17 pm  Page 14 015
The following key mechanisms
were available to the Board at various
times during the year in the conduct 
of its review of internal controls:
  An ongoing process, through Board
meetings, senior management
meetings and divisional reviews as
well as other management meetings,
for the formal identification of
significant operational risks and
mitigating control processes; 
  The Treasury Risk Committee
comprising the Group Finance
Director, Company Secretary and
Group Treasurer, which meets to
consider the specific risks associated
with treasury transactions, including
the approval of all transactions 
in financial derivatives; 
  A series of internal audit reviews of
country/regions covering the financial,
operational and overhead functions.
These reviews are based on the
identified risks. The findings and
recommendations of each review 
are reported to management 
and the Audit Committee;
  An embedded system of reporting 
the effectiveness of key financial,
operational and compliance controls.
This is a comprehensive self-
assessment intranet system. Results
and action plans are reviewed by
senior management and summarised
for the Board; 
  A multi-disciplinary Group risk 
forum, chaired by Rudolf Lobo,
reports to the Board on a quarterly
basis. This forum considers all aspects
of risk identification and management.
The forum is a key process by which
the Board assesses the overall
effectiveness of the Group's system 
of internal control. 
COMMUNICATIONS WITH
SHAREHOLDERS 
The Company has a policy of 
maintaining an active dialogue 
with shareholders. Group financial
reports and announcements 
are accessible via the Group's 
Internet site. 
Insofar as securities laws and 
other applicable requirements allow, 
the Company corresponds on 
a range of subjects with its individual
shareholders who also have an
opportunity to question the Board, 
as well as the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees, 
at the Annual General Meeting. 
Corporate governance
18275_E22330_AREP.qxd  8/4/04  11:53 am  Page 15