 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
21
As an AIM listed company, Renew is not required to follow
the provisions of the Combined Code, as set out in the
Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules. The Directors,
however recognise the importance of and accordingly
support the principles of, good corporate governance as
contained within the Combined Code. Because of this the
Directors would normally seek to follow the Code to the
extent considered relevant for an AIM listed company but
have been unable to achieve compliance with the Code in
a number of areas this year, primarily because of the lack
of independent non-executive Directors for much of the
year and to date. These matters are explained in further
detail in the sections below. 
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chief Executive Officer,
the non-executive Chairman, one Executive Director and
one independent non-executive Director. Brief biographies
of the Directors are given on page 17.
As the Company has only had one independent non-
executive Director within the meaning of the Code during
the year, it has not been compliant with the requirement of
the Code that more than half of the Board should be
comprised of independent non-executive Directors. 
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly. The
Board identified the need for both additional Executive and
non-executive Directors. The Board in its capacity as
Nomination Committee considered internal and external
candidates leading to the appointment of a new Group
Finance Director during the year, and after the year end,
the appointment of John Bishop as a non-executive
Director. Appropriate training, briefings and induction are
available to all Directors on appointment and subsequently
as necessary, taking into account existing qualifications and
experience. New Directors are subject to election by
shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
The Board met formally 10 times in the year plus Committee
meetings dealing with the daily business of the Company
being held as necessary. The Board receives written and
oral reports from the Executive Directors ensuring matters
are considered fully and enabling Directors to discharge
their duties properly. There is a formal schedule of matters
reserved for the Board's decision ensuring the maintenance
of control over strategic, financial and operational matters.
In addition, the Directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary and procedures are in
place for them to seek independent professional advice, if
necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board Committees
Following the appointment of R Harrison as Executive
Chairman on 24 March 2004, A Wagner OBE became the
sole independent non-executive Director and the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees were rendered
inquorate. The Board therefore decided in July 2004 to
temporarily suspend all Committees. Since the Committees
were rendered inquorate any matters normally reserved for
consideration by the Committees have been decided upon
by the full Board, with any individual having a personal
interest in the matter under consideration not taking part in
the meeting. As at 1 October 2005, R Harrison reverted to
non-executive Chairman. However, his role as an Executive
Director prevents him from being considered as
independent under the Combined Code 2003. The Board
has decided, therefore, to continue to consider the above
Committee matters as a full Board and will re-instate the
Committees as soon as it is in a position to do so.
In normal circumstances the Board delegates clearly defined
powers to its Audit, General Purposes, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees. Each of the Board's Committees
has carefully drafted terms of reference. 
The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with
the Board the framework and policy of executive
remuneration packages, including bonuses, incentive
payments, share options or awards and pension
arrangements. Further information concerning the
Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors'
Remuneration Report on pages 18 to 20.
The Nomination Committee monitors the composition of the
Board and recommends the appointment of new Directors.
The Board in its capacity as Nomination Committee has held
two meetings during the year to discuss nomination matters.
The Nomination Committee terms of reference include:
(a) To review the structure, size and composition of 
the Board;
(b) To consider succession planning for Directors and 
senior executives;
(c) To identify and nominate, for approval by the Board,
suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies;
(d) To make recommendations to the Board on the
contents of letters of appointment, Directors' duties, 
re-appointment or re-election of Directors upon
conclusion of a specified term or retirement 
by rotation.
The Company ceased to comply with the Code guidance
(Section C 3.1) that the Audit Committee should comprise
of at least two non-executive Directors following the
appointment of R Harrison as an Executive Director. The
Board in its capacity as Audit Committee has held five
meetings to consider Audit Committee business. The
Directors propose to appoint John Bishop as Chairman of
the Board for the purposes of Audit Committee business
following the approval of the 2006 accounts. In normal
circumstances the Audit Committee considers the
87379_RENEW_R&A_2006_TEXT PAGE 21
87379_Renew_R&A_2006_Text.qxp  8/12/06  17:07  Page 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
22
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
87379_RENEW_R&A_2006_TEXT PAGE 22
adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and
control systems of the Group, and reports the results to the
Board. It reviews the scope and results of the external
audit, its cost effectiveness and the objectivity of the
Auditors. The Audit Committee monitors the non-audit
work performed by the Auditors to help ensure that the
independence of the Auditors is maintained. The Audit
Committee also reviews the interim statement, the
preliminary announcement and accounting policies. 
The General Purposes Committee is constituted by two
Executive Directors and considers routine day-to-day
business decisions, which are then reported to the Board. 
Internal controls
Throughout the financial year to 30 September 2006 and
up to the date of approval of the Report and Accounts, the
Group has fully complied with the relevant provisions of the
Code and the Turnbull guidance. The Directors
acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the
Group's system of internal control and for reviewing and
monitoring its effectiveness. The system of internal control
is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate,
the risks to which the Company is exposed and therefore
provides a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
a company failing to meet its business objectives or against
material misstatement or loss. Consequently, the Board
confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the
Group and that it is regularly reviewed by the Board. 
The Group operates a risk management process, which is
embedded in normal management and governance
processes. There is a system of self-examination of risk
areas and controls by subsidiaries and departments within
the Group. Where significant risks are identified, the
probability of those risks occurring, their potential impact and
the plans for managing and mitigating each of those risks is
reported. The Group operates a series of controls which
include the annual strategic planning and budgeting process,
short-term cash monitoring achieved by means of weekly
forecasts, which are compared against budget and previous
forecasts, clearly defined capital investment guidelines and
levels of authority, a clear organisational structure within
which individuals' responsibilities are identified and
monitored. These results and processes are monitored,
updated, reviewed and considered by the Board.
Due to the size and nature of the Group, the Board does
not consider that an internal audit function is necessary;
however, it is continuing to review this position.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors consider that at the
time of approving the financial statements, there is a
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Directors' remuneration
The Company's policy on the remuneration of Executive
Directors, and information relating to the Directors'
remuneration and their interests in share options, is
included in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Directors and officers indemnity
Article 144 of the Articles of Association provides that each
Director or other officer or Auditor of the Company shall be
indemnified by the Company against losses, costs and
expenses he may sustain or incur in connection with the
performance of his duties of office, to the fullest extent
permitted by law. 
Shareholder relationships
Members of the Board have dialogue with individual
shareholders during the year. In addition to the Annual and
Interim Report and Accounts, the Chairman addresses
shareholders at the AGM and invites questions to any
members of the Board.
The AGM is normally attended by all Directors and provides
an opportunity for communication with those shareholders
attending. Notice of the AGM is given to shareholders at
least 21 days in advance and separate resolutions are
proposed on each substantially separate issue. Where
resolutions at the AGM are dealt with by show of hands, the
results of proxy votes for and against are still announced. 
Financial and other information about the Company is
available on the Company's website:
www.renewholdings.com from which shareholders can also
access their shareholding details via a link to the website of
Capita Registrars plc.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 24 January 2007, the Notice for
which is set out on page 54. The Notice contains special
business, including the renewal of the Board's power to
allot equity shares. Brief details of the purpose and effect of
the proposed resolutions are set out on page 55 of the
notes to the Notice of AGM. Shareholders should complete
the proxy form accompanying this document in
accordance with the notes contained in the Notice of AGM. 
Approval
The Board approved the Corporate Governance Report on 
28 November 2006.
By Order of the Board
Catherine Wright LLB FCIS
Company Secretary
87379_Renew_R&A_2006_Text.qxp  8/12/06  17:07  Page 22