 renew holdings plc annual report & accounts 2009 34
As an AIM listed company, Renew is not required to follow the provisions of the Combined Code, as set out in the Financial 
Services Authority's Listing Rules. The Directors, however recognise the importance of, and accordingly support, the principles 
of good corporate governance as contained within the Combined Code. The Directors normally seek to follow the Code 
to the extent considered relevant for an AIM listed company but have been unable to achieve compliance with the Code in a 
number of areas this year, primarily because of the lack of independent non-executive Directors. These matters are explained 
in further detail in the sections below.
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, one Executive Director and one 
independent non-executive Director. Brief biographies of the Directors are given on page 29.
As the Company has only had one independent non-executive Director within the meaning of the Code during the year, it has 
not been compliant with the requirement of the Code that more than half of the Board should be comprised of independent 
non-executive Directors. 
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly. Appropriate training, briefings and induction are available to all Directors 
on appointment and subsequently as necessary, taking into account existing qualifications and experience. New Directors 
are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. 
The Board met formally ten times in the year with all Directors in attendance, plus Committee meetings dealing with the daily 
business of the Company being held as necessary. The Board receives written and oral reports from the Executive Directors 
ensuring matters are considered fully and enabling Directors to discharge their duties properly. There is a formal schedule of 
matters reserved for the Board's decision ensuring the maintenance of control over strategic, financial and operational matters. 
In addition, procedures are in place for the Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the 
Company's expense.
Board Committees
In July 2004, the Board decided to suspend all Committees temporarily due to the shortage of independent non-executive 
Directors on the Board. Since the Committees became inquorate, any matters normally reserved for consideration by the 
Committees have been decided upon by the full Board, with any individual having a personal interest in the matter under 
consideration not taking part in the meeting. As at 1 October 2005, R Harrison reverted to non-executive Chairman, however, 
his previous role as an Executive Director prevents him from being considered as independent under the Combined Code 2003. 
Following the appointment of J Bishop, he became the sole independent non-executive Director. During the year, the Board 
decided to re-instate the Committees with J Bishop acting as Chairman of the Audit Committee and R Harrison acting as 
Chairman of both the Remuneration and Nominations Committees. 
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Each of the Board's 
Committees has carefully drafted terms of reference. 
The Remuneration Committee, which comprises R Harrison and J Bishop, determines and agrees with the Board the framework 
and policy of executive remuneration packages, including bonuses, incentive payments, share options or awards and pension 
arrangements. Further information concerning the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report 
on pages 31 to 33. 
The Nominations Committee, which comprises the entire Board, monitors the composition of the Board and recommends 
the appointment of new Directors. The Nominations Committee, with all Directors present, has held two meetings during 
the year to discuss nomination matters.
The Nominations Committee terms of reference include:
(a) to review the structure, size and composition of the Board;
(b) to consider succession planning for Directors and senior executives;
(c) to identify and nominate, for approval by the Board, suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies; and
(d)  to make recommendations to the Board on the contents of letters of appointment, Directors' duties, reappointment 
or re-election of Directors upon conclusion of a specified term or retirement by rotation.
corporate governance
_1_RNWH_ar09_back.indd   9 14/12/2009   17:33:57 renew holdings plc annual report & accounts 2009 35
Board Committees continued
The Company ceased to comply with the Code guidance (Section C 3.1) that the Audit Committee should comprise of 
at least two non-executive Directors following the appointment of R Harrison as an Executive Director. The Audit Committee 
has held three meetings to consider Audit Committee business. The Audit Committee consists of J Bishop and R Harrison. 
The Executive Directors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings but at least two meetings are held each year with 
the external Auditors at which the Executive Directors are not present. The Audit Committee considers the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the risk management and control systems of the Group, and reports the results to the Board. It reviews 
the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the objectivity of the Auditors. The Audit Committee 
monitors the non-audit work performed by the Auditors to help ensure that the independence of the Auditors is maintained. 
The Audit Committee also reviews the interim statement, the preliminary announcement and accounting policies. 
The Board forms a General Purposes Committee from time it time as it deems necessary. This Committee is constituted 
by the two Executive Directors and considers individual business matters, which have been specifically delegated to it 
by the Board.
Internal controls
Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2009 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, 
the Group has fully complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and the Turnbull guidance. The Directors acknowledge 
that they have overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing and monitoring its effectiveness. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the Company is 
exposed and therefore provides a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against a company failing to meet its business 
objectives or against material misstatement or loss. Consequently, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and that it is regularly reviewed by the Board. 
The Group operates a risk management process, which is embedded in normal management and governance processes. 
There is a system of self-examination of risk areas and controls by subsidiaries and departments within the Group. Where 
significant risks are identified, the probability of those risks occurring, their potential impact and the plans for managing 
and mitigating each of those risks is reported. The Group operates a series of controls which include the annual strategic 
planning and budgeting process, short-term cash monitoring achieved by means of weekly forecasts which are compared 
against budget and previous forecasts, clearly defined capital investment guidelines and levels of authority and a clear 
organisational structure within which individuals' responsibilities are identified and monitored. These results and processes 
are monitored, updated, reviewed and considered by the Board. The Group has established a series of minimum standards 
in a number of financial and operational areas with which each business within the Group must comply. Group management 
monitors and reviews compliance with these requirements on a periodic basis. Due to the size and nature of the Group, 
the Board does not consider that a separate internal audit function is necessary. However, during 2009, the Group carried 
out a programme of internal audit conducted by the Group Commercial Director and by members of the various subsidiaries' 
finance teams. This system of peer review promotes best practice as well as ensuring that Group minimum requirements 
as to procedures and internal controls are being complied with. The reports from these internal audits are made available 
both to the Board and to the external Auditors.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the budgets and forecasts prepared by the Group and its trading subsidiaries and consider that 
at the time of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors' remuneration
The Company's policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors, and information relating to the Directors' remuneration 
and their interests in share options, is included in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
_1_RNWH_ar09_back.indd   10 14/12/2009   17:33:57 renew holdings plc annual report & accounts 2009 36
Directors' and officers' indemnity
The Articles of Association provide that each Director or other officer or Auditor of the Company shall be indemnified by 
the Company against losses, costs and expenses he may sustain or incur in connection with the performance of his duties 
of office, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Shareholder relationships
Members of the Board have dialogue with individual shareholders during the year. In addition to the Annual and Interim Report 
and Accounts, the Chairman addresses shareholders at the AGM and invites questions to any members of the Board. 
The AGM is normally attended by all Directors and provides an opportunity for communication with those shareholders 
attending. Notice of the AGM is given to shareholders at least 21 days in advance and separate resolutions are proposed 
on each substantially separate issue. Where resolutions at the AGM are dealt with by show of hands, the results of proxy 
votes for and against are still announced. 
Financial and other information about the Group is available on the Company's website: www.renewholdings.com, from 
which shareholders can also access their shareholding details via a link to the website of Capita Registrars plc.
Company Secretary
As part of the Group's redundancy and restructuring costs during the year, B Feather resigned as Company Secretary 
and the Board appointed J Samuel, the Group Finance Director, to the position.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 27 January 2010, the Notice for which is set out on page 75. The Notice contains special business 
relating to the renewal of the Board's power to allot equity shares. Brief details of the purpose and effect of the proposed 
resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM and the notes thereto on page 76. 
Shareholders should complete the proxy form accompanying this document in accordance with the notes contained in the 
Notice of AGM.
Approval
The Board approved the Corporate Governance Report on 24 November 2009.
By Order of the Board
John Samuel
Company Secretary
24 November 2009
corporate governance continued
_1_RNWH_ar09_back.indd   11 14/12/2009   17:33:57