 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 
49
Overview Governance Financial statements Performance Shareholder information
Directors' corporate governance report
A. Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board comprises five executive and four non-executive 
directors. The directors holding office at the date of this report 
and short biographical details are given on pages 12 and 13. 
Full biographical details are available on www.renishaw.com. 
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors 
and officers as disclosed in the Other statutory and 
regulatory disclosures.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of 
effective business controls and review of business performance. 
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it 
for decision. These include the approval of annual and interim 
results and interim management statements, company and 
business acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, 
borrowings, material agreements, director and company 
secretary appointments and removals, any patent-related 
dispute and other material litigation, forecasts and major 
product development projects.
The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties 
effectively. In the financial year ended 30th June 2012, the Board 
met ten times and the directors' attendance record at Board 
and committee meetings is set out at the end of this report. 
In addition, the non-executive directors met a number of times 
without executive directors present.
The Board has three formally constituted committees, the Audit 
committee, the Remuneration committee and the Nomination 
committee. 
There is an executive management committee known as 
the Executive Board that is responsible for the executive 
management of the Group's businesses. It is chaired by the 
Chairman and includes the executive directors of Renishaw plc 
and other senior management representatives responsible for 
two core product lines of the Group and the North and Central 
American market. The Executive Board usually meets for two 
days on a monthly basis and considers the performance and 
strategic direction of the metrology business on one day and on 
the other, the healthcare business and other matters of general 
importance to the Group. In addition, there is an executive sales 
and marketing committee known as the International Sales 
and Marketing Board which meets quarterly to determine the 
Group's sales and marketing policies and strategies and review 
the activities. This committee is chaired by the Deputy Chairman 
and includes the Assistant Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director plus the managing directors of the five largest sales 
territories and the Director of Sales Development. 
A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps 
out the structure of delegation below board level and includes 
the matters reserved to the Executive Board and the level of 
authorities given to management below the Executive Board. 
The Board has adopted a conflict of interests policy, putting 
in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts 
and potential conflicts and authorisation by the Board (if felt 
appropriate). Authorisations granted and the terms of such 
are reviewed on an annual basis. New disclosures are made 
where applicable.
The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and 
thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code. Sir David 
McMurtry has held this position since the Company became 
a quoted company and he, together with John Deer, holds 
the majority of the voting interests in the Company. The Board 
considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities 
at board level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and 
authority. The Board and Executive Board meet on a regular 
basis to make decisions of significance to the two business 
segments and review management actions. It is intended that this 
combined role will continue for so long as Sir David McMurtry 
remains on the Board and he and John Deer hold a majority of 
the voting interests in the Company. 
The Chairman has no other significant commitments as regards 
employment or directorships of other companies. 
Non-executive directors
The senior independent director is Bill Whiteley and he is available 
to discuss concerns with shareholders should the normal 
channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group 
Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns, or for which 
such contact is inappropriate. The non-executive directors meet 
without the executive directors present to discuss performance 
and other matters.
B. Effectiveness
Composition of the Board 
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board 
to be independent in character and judgement and there are 
no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a 
non-executive director's judgement. Terry Garthwaite and 
David Snowden, appointed to the Board on 1st July 2003, have 
completed nine years as directors of the Company and therefore 
will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM on 
18th October 2012. It is also noted that Terry Garthwaite and 
Bill Whiteley are both on the Board of Brammer plc. This situation 
has been reviewed and the Board has concluded that there 
is no impact on either of them so far as their independence 
is concerned.
The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the 
Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors. 
The Board does not comply with this requirement and, as noted 
below, a recruitment process is currently being undertaken. 
It is noted that during the 2013 financial year, Terry Garthwaite 
and David Snowden will not seek re-election to the Board. 
Consideration will be given to recruiting a further non-executive 
director when a review of the skills and experience of the Board 
has been undertaken in light of the recent and forthcoming 
changes to board personnel. Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 
50
Directors' corporate governance report continued
Appointments to the Board
The Nomination committee is responsible for reviewing the 
structure and composition of the Board and nominating 
candidates for appointment to the Board. The majority of the 
members of this committee are independent non-executive 
directors and the members and the chair of the committee 
are shown on pages 12 and 13. The terms of reference of 
this committee are published on the Company's website. 
This section of the Annual report describes the work of 
the Nomination committee.
One new appointment was made to the Board during the year. 
David Grant became known to the Board as a result of his 
association with the Company in his capacity of vice-chancellor 
of Cardiff University which has 30,000 students, 6,000 members 
of staff and an annual income of  430m. His previous lengthy 
experience in the industrial engineering sector, including Dowty 
Group and GEC, and his knowledge and contacts with academic 
institutions make him a well-qualified addition to the Board's 
resources. 
A recruitment consultant, Augmentum Consulting, was engaged 
to seek an appropriate candidate to take on the role of chair of 
the Audit committee with effect from the next AGM and was 
provided a job specification for this purpose. The shortlist for 
interview was to include candidates that have the required skills 
and experience and, where possible, primarily female candidates. 
Augmentum Consulting has no connection with the Company. 
The recruitment process is ongoing.
The Board has considered the recommendations of the Women 
on Boards  report issued by Lord Davies of Abersoch as regards 
setting out aspirations for the appointment of women to the 
Board by 2013 and 2015 and has decided that it is inappropriate 
to set out any levels that may require positive discrimination in this 
respect, as the overriding need is to appoint directors with the 
necessary skills and experience for the role. However, the Board 
acknowledges that diversity of all types should be borne in mind 
when recruiting for all roles within the Group and has a policy to 
provide for equal opportunities to all.
Commitment
The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, which 
includes the expected time commitment from non-executive 
directors and requiring any changes to other significant 
commitments to be discussed with the Chairman and Chief 
Executive in advance, are available for inspection at the AGM 
and at the registered office upon written request.
None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a 
FTSE 100 company.
Development
Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training 
courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors. 
Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided 
in board reports and otherwise as appropriate. Non-executive 
directors are invited to attend internal conferences, which provide 
information to the Group on new product development and 
marketing initiatives. Business presentations are given at board 
meetings to provide updates on and opportunities to discuss 
products and business strategies. 
An induction pack is provided to new appointees to the Board 
and induction procedures include site visits, briefings by senior 
managers and meetings with major shareholders at appropriate 
opportunities.
Information and support
The Board receives appropriate documentation, management 
accounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance of 
each board meeting to enable its members to review the financial 
performance of the Group, current trading and key business 
initiatives. The Company Secretary advises the Board on all 
governance matters. All directors have access to the Company 
Secretary and to independent professional advice at the 
Company's expense where necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities as directors. The appointment and removal 
of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Evaluation
The Board has established a formal process, led by the 
senior independent director, for the annual evaluation of the 
performance of the Board. This includes the completion of a 
questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide 
a framework for the evaluation process. It is the role of the senior 
independent director to summarise the responses and discuss 
them with individual directors and with the Board as a whole. 
The committees undertake a similar evaluation process led by 
the chair of the relevant committee. 
Re-election
In accordance with the Code all the directors will retire from the 
Board at the next AGM and, except in the case of any director 
who has decided to stand down from the Board, will offer 
themselves up for re-election at the AGM.