 Corporate Governance
The Combined Code and Statement of Compliance
The Company remains committed to high standards of corporate
governance. This statement describes how the principles of
corporate governance, contained in the Combined Code issued by
the Financial Services Authority as an appendix to its Listing Rules,
have been applied by the Company.
The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout
the year ended 31 March 2005 with the provisions of the
Combined Code as issued in July 2003.
Board
The Board presently comprises a non-executive Chairman, three
independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Throughout most of 2004/05 there were, in addition to the
Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and three
executive directors. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are
separated with a clear division of responsibilities agreed by the
Board. The Chairman's primary role is to ensure the effectiveness
of the Board in setting the direction of the Company. The Chief
Executive has the responsibility for managing the business and
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board. Biographical
details of the directors appear on page 15.
New directors are provided with an appropriate induction
programme. A formal process for evaluating the performance of
the Board has been conducted internally by means of a detailed
questionnaire completed by each director with the Board
considering the outcome. The result has been to include an
expansion of matters for discussion at the Board.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors is
independent and free from any business or other relationship that
could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In particular, the Board considers that this remains true for the
Senior Independent Director, Mr M A Smith, who has served on
the Board for ten years and brings a wealth of relevant financial
experience and independence to the Group. The Board is pleased
that he has agreed to remain a member of the Board and, in
accordance with best practice, will seek re-election at the Annual
General Meeting in July 2005.
Board members are able to seek independent legal or other
professional advice in respect of their duties as they may require
at the Company's expense and have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary.
The Board initially appoints all new directors upon recommendation
from the Nomination Committee. All directors are subject to
election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their
appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more
than three years.
The Board meets on a regular basis with an agenda and necessary
papers for discussion distributed in advance of each meeting. The
following table shows the number of meetings and record of
attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings held in the
year to 31 March 2005.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk
Number held 10 3 1 4 5
Number attended
R F Leverton 10 3 1 4
R J Davies 10 5
B A Beckett 1
D A Brown 10 5
T B Fortune 8 3 4
S R Mole 10 5
M A Smith 10 3 1 4
All directors in office at the time of the Annual General Meeting
held on 22 July 2004 were in attendance for the meeting.
Ms B A Beckett was appointed on 1 March 2005 and was only
eligible to attend one Board meeting.
Board Committees
The Board delegates specific responsibility to Committees, all of
which have written terms of reference and these are available on
the Company's website. The Company Secretary acts as secretary
to all these Committees. The principal Board Committees are
described below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board comprised of
the non-executive directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr M A
Smith and normally meets three times a year. Mr Smith and Mr
Leverton are qualified accountants and with Mr Fortune have
considerable experience on audit committees in other listed
companies. The Chief Executive, Finance Director and other
Directors and Managers attend meetings at the request of the
Committee. Its terms of reference include the review of the
Group's financial statements, the review of internal financial
control systems and the conduct of the external audit. The external
auditors are invited by the Committee to advise them of any
matters which they consider should be brought to the
Committee's attention in the absence of executive management.
The Committee reviews the independence of the external auditors
on an annual basis and to safeguard the independence and
objectivity of the auditors has approved a policy on non-audit
services provided by the auditors in line with professional practice.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is a committee of the Board
comprised of the non-executive directors and chaired by the
Chairman of the Board, Mr R F Leverton. The Committee meets as
required and its terms of reference are to select and recommend 
19 Corporate Governance continued
to the Board any new appointments of either executive or non-
executive directors. The meeting in 2004/05 was to consider the
appointment of Ms B A Beckett which was undertaken with the
assistance of an external search consultant.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board
comprised of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr 
T B Fortune. The Chief Executive attends meetings at the request
of the Committee. This Committee determines the terms and
conditions of employment including remuneration and benefits of
the executive directors as well as performance related bonus
schemes and pension rights. The main Board determines the
remuneration of the non-executive directors and individual non-
executive directors are not present when their own remuneration
is being discussed. Ms B A Beckett will become Chairman
following Mr Fortune's retirement from the Board in July 2005.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 21 to 24.
Risk Monitoring Committee
The Risk Monitoring Committee is a committee of the Board
comprised of the executive directors and is chaired by the Chief
Executive. Its role is to oversee risk management and to ensure that
appropriate internal controls are in place.
Internal control
The directors have the overall responsibility for the Group's system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Management
is accountable to the directors for implementing Board policies on
risk and control and for monitoring and reporting to the Board that
it has done so. The review of the system of internal controls by the
directors has been completed for the year ended 31 March 2005,
as required by the UK Listing Authority and in accordance with
the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Group's internal control system are
  the Risk Monitoring Committee which meets quarterly to
review how business risks are being managed and to ensure
that policies are in place and are being applied. The minutes
of this Committee are circulated to Board members so that
any significant control issues are brought to their attention
and a formal report is made at least annually to the Board so
that it can review how business risks have and are being
managed;
  risk assessments completed by senior management at each
operating unit as part of a continuous process and reporting
of these which is reviewed by the Risk Monitoring Committee;
  an organisation structure which supports clear lines of
communication and tiered levels of authority;
  a schedule of matters reserved for the Board's approval to
ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic,
financial, organisational and compliance issues;
  the preparation of detailed annual profit plans covering profit
and cash flow, which are approved by the Board; the review
of detailed monthly reports comparing actual performance
with plans, and of updated financial forecasts;
  procedures for the appraisal, approval and control of capital
investment proposals including acquisitions and disposals;
  monitoring procedures which include a system of key financial
controls questionnaires supported by internal audit reviews.
The results of this work are reported to the Audit Committee.
UK pension schemes
The UK pension schemes are largely defined benefit type schemes
with assets held separately from those of the Group in trustee
administered funds, managed by independent managers. Under
the terms of their management agreements the investment
managers of the schemes' assets are not permitted to invest in the
securities of Renold plc. The Boards of Trustees of the principal
schemes include employee representatives.
In April 2002 the Renold Group Pension Scheme and the Jones &
Shipman plc Retirement Benefits Plan (1971) were closed to new
entrants subject to appropriate transitional arrangements for
existing eligible employees and a defined contribution scheme
was established as from that date.
Neither the Chairman nor the Chief Executive is a Trustee of the
defined benefit or the defined contribution schemes.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
accounts.
Relations with shareholders
Meetings between directors of the Company and major
institutional shareholders and fund managers are held at regular
intervals including presentations after the Company's
announcements of interim and preliminary results. These
presentations are also available on the Company's website. The
Chairman invites major institutional shareholders, should they
wish, to meet with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Reports of any dialogue between shareholders and directors are
given to all directors at the next Board meeting.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General
Meeting where the Chairman of the Board and of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, together with the
executive directors, are available to answer questions. Notice of the
Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20
working days before the meeting. Details of the proxy votes
lodged on each resolution are available after the result of the
votes of the members present. Shareholders are invited to talk
informally to the Directors after the formal proceedings.
The Company's website at www.renold.com presents additional
information about the Group, is regularly updated and includes
the posting of the interim and final preliminary results on the day
they are announced.
20