 The Combined Code and Statement of Compliance
The Company remains committed to high standards of
corporate governance. This statement describes how the
principles of corporate governance, contained in the Combined
Code issued by the Financial Services Authority as an appendix
to its Listing Rules, have been applied by the Company.
The Board considers that the Company has complied
throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 with the provisions
of the Combined Code.
Board
The Board presently comprises a non-executive Chairman, two
independent non-executive directors and three executive
directors. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are
separated with a clear division of responsibilities agreed by 
the Board. The Chairman's primary role is to ensure the
effectiveness of the Board in setting the direction of the
Company. The Chief Executive has the responsibility for
managing the business and implementing the strategy agreed
by the Board. Biographical details of the directors appear on
page 13.
New directors are provided with an appropriate induction
programme. A formal process for evaluating the performance
of the Board has been conducted internally by means of a
detailed questionnaire completed by each director with the
Board considering the outcome. 
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors is
independent and free from any business or other relationship
that could interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement. In particular, the Board considers that this remains
true for the Senior Independent Director, Mr M A Smith, who
has served on the Board since 1994 and brings a wealth of
relevant financial experience and independence to the Group.
The Board is pleased that he has agreed to remain a member 
of the Board and, in accordance with best practice, will seek 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting in September 2006.
Board members are able to seek independent legal or other
professional advice in respect of their duties as they may require
at the Company's expense and have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary.
The Board initially appoints all new directors upon
recommendation from the Nomination Committee. All directors
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity
following their appointment and to re-election thereafter at
intervals of no more than three years.
The Board meets on a regular basis with an agenda and
necessary papers for discussion distributed in advance of each
meeting. The following table shows the number of meetings of
the Board and its committees during the year and individual
attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk
Number held 9 3 1 4 3
Number attended
R F Leverton 9 3 1 4
R J Davies 9 3
B A Beckett 9 3 1 4
D A Brown 9 3
T B Fortune 3 1 1 2
S R Mole 1
M A Smith 9 3 1 4
All directors in office at the time of the Annual General Meeting
held on 21 July 2005 were in attendance for the meeting.
Mr S R Mole and Mr T B Fortune attended all meetings they
were eligible to attend during their time as directors.
Board Committees
The Board delegates specific responsibility to Committees, all of
which have written terms of reference and these are available
on the Company's website. The Company Secretary acts as
secretary to all these Committees. The principal Board
Committees are described below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board comprised 
of the non-executive directors. The Committee is chaired by 
Mr M A Smith and normally meets three times a year. Mr Smith
and Mr Leverton are qualified accountants and have
considerable experience on audit committees in other listed
companies. The Chief Executive, Finance Director and other
Managers attend meetings at the request of the Committee. Its
terms of reference include the review of the Group's financial
statements, the review of internal financial control systems and
internal audit reports and the conduct of the external audit. The
external auditors, who attend by invitation, are invited by the
Committee to advise them of any matters which they consider
should be brought to the Committee's attention in the absence
of executive management.
The Committee reviews the independence of the external
auditors on an annual basis and, to safeguard the
independence and objectivity of the auditors, has approved
a policy on non-audit services provided by the auditors in
line with professional practice.
The Committee has a formal process for evaluating the
effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the internal audit
function and the external audit process.
Corporate Governance 
17 Corporate Governance continued
18
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is a committee of the Board
comprised of the non-executive directors and chaired by the
Chairman of the Board, Mr R F Leverton. The Committee meets
as required and its terms of reference are to select and
recommend to the Board any new appointments of either
executive or non-executive directors. The meeting in 2005/06
was to consider the reconstitution of the Board following the
resignation of Mr S R Mole.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board
comprised of the non-executive directors and has been chaired
by Ms B A Beckett following Mr T B Fortune's retirement from
the Board in July 2005. The Chief Executive attends meetings at
the request of the Committee. This Committee determines the
terms and conditions of employment including remuneration
and benefits of the executive directors as well as performance
related bonus schemes and pension rights. The main Board
determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors and
individual non-executive directors are not present when their
own remuneration is being discussed.
During the year the Committee, in conjunction with Monks
Partnership, conducted a comparative pension's market practice
review and as a result has made a number of recommendations
to the Pension Trustees in order to continue ongoing liabilities.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 20 to 23.
Risk Monitoring Committee
The Risk Monitoring Committee is a committee of the Board
comprised of the executive directors and is chaired by the Chief
Executive. Its role is to oversee risk management and to ensure
that appropriate internal controls are in place.
Internal control
The directors have the overall responsibility for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Management is accountable to the directors for implementing
Board policies on risk and control and for monitoring and
reporting to the Board that it has done so. The review of the
system of internal controls by the directors has been completed
for the year ended 31 March 2006, as required by the UK Listing
Authority and in accordance with the guidance issued by the
Turnbull Committee.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Group's internal control system are:
  the Risk Monitoring Committee which meets regularly to
review how business risks, as identified by the Board, are
being managed and to ensure that policies are in place and
are being applied. The minutes of this Committee are
circulated to Board members so that any significant control
issues are brought to their attention and a formal report is
made at least annually to the Board so that it can review
how business risks have and are being managed;
  risk assessments completed by senior management at each
operating unit as part of a continuous process and
reporting of these which is reviewed by the Risk Monitoring
Committee;
  an organisation structure which supports clear lines of
communication and tiered levels of authority;
  a schedule of matters reserved for the Board's approval to
ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic,
financial, organisational and compliance issues;
  the preparation of detailed annual profit plans covering
profit and cash flow, which are approved by the Board; the
review of detailed monthly reports comparing actual
performance with plans, and of updated financial
forecasts;
  procedures for the appraisal, approval and control of
capital investment proposals including acquisitions and
disposals;
  monitoring procedures which include a system of key
financial controls questionnaires supported by internal
audit reviews. The results of this work are reported to the
Audit Committee.
UK pension schemes
The UK pension schemes are largely defined benefit type
schemes with assets held separately from those of the Group in
trustee administered funds, managed by independent
managers. Under the terms of their management agreements
the investment managers of the schemes' assets are not
permitted to invest in the securities of Renold plc. The Boards 
of Trustees of the principal schemes include employee
representatives.
In April 2002 the Renold Group Pension Scheme and the Jones
& Shipman plc Retirement Benefits Plan (1971) were closed to
new entrants subject to appropriate transitional arrangements
for existing eligible employees and a defined contribution
scheme was established as from that date.  Neither the Chairman nor the Chief Executive is a Trustee of 
the defined benefit or the defined contribution schemes. Since
the year end an independent Trustee Company has been
appointed to provide a Chairman of the Board of Trustees of 
the principal schemes.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Relations with shareholders
Meetings between directors of the Company and major
institutional shareholders and fund managers are held at
regular intervals including presentations after the Company's
announcements of interim and preliminary results. These
presentations are also available on the Company's website. The
Chairman invites major institutional shareholders, should they
wish, to meet with the Chairman and Senior Independent
Director. Reports of any dialogue between shareholders and
directors are given to all directors at the next Board meeting and
all directors receive copies of analysts' reports of which the
Company is made aware.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General
Meeting where the Chairman of the Board and of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, together with the
executive directors, are available to answer questions. Notice of
the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20
working days before the meeting. Details of the proxy votes
lodged on each resolution are available after the result of the
votes of the members present. Shareholders are invited to talk
informally to the Directors after the formal proceedings.
The Company's website at www.renold.com presents additional
information about the Group, is regularly updated and includes
the posting of the interim and final preliminary results on the
day they are announced.
Corporate Governance continued
19