  
 
44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
ASSOCIATED BRITISH ENGINEERING PLC 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, set out below are details of 
the Company's corporate governance arrangements, including a statement as to how the Company applies the principles 
of Section 1 of the Revised Code, together with a statement regarding its compliance with specific provisions. Whilst 
welcoming the principles contained within the Code, the Board considers that it should be recognised that what may be 
appropriate for a large company may not necessarily be so appropriate for a smaller company and a Company's current 
circumstances.   As a result, the Company has been in compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in the 
Combined Code for Corporate Governance with the following exceptions:- 
 
  The division of responsibilities between the roles of chairman and chief executive have not been clearly 
established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. This is contrary to provision A.2.1; 
 
  There is no formally appointed senior independent director. This is contrary to provision A.3.3; 
 
 
 
 
  The Board considers that it is unable to state that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group's 
system of internal controls. This is contrary to provision C.2.1 
 
  The Company does not have a Remuneration Committee, this is contrary to provisions B.2.1 - B.2.2 
In view of the size and circumstances of the Group, the Board do not consider Remuneration, Nomination and Audit 
Committees appropriate. The Board as a whole carries out the functions and responsibilities that would be performed by 
these Committees.  
 
The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and control of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters in 
respect of which decisions are reserved to it, covering key areas including strategy formulation, acquisitions or disposals, 
approval of the budget for the subsidiary, financial results, board appointments and proposals for dividend payments.   
 
  The Board has not undertaken a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and the 
individual Directors.   This is contrary to provision A.6.1; 
  There is no formal training programme for new Directors on joining the Board. This is contrary to provision 
A.5.1; 
 
  The non - executive directors of the Company have not been appointed for specific terms as required by 
provision A.7.2; 
  The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors and the letters of appointment were not in 
place for any of the Directors throughout the year, contrary to provision A.4.4. Since the year end, this provision 
has been complied with and the documents are available for inspection on request; 
  There is no formal performance evaluation or election process for the appointment of Non-Executive Directors. 
This is contrary to provision A.7.2 
 
  No non-executive directors are considered to be independent.  This is contrary to provision A.3.1 and A.3.3 
 
 
  The Company does not have a Nomination Committee, this is contrary to provisions A.4.1 - A.4.3 
 
  The Company does not have an Audit Committee, this is contrary to provisions C.3.1 - C.3.6. 
 
 
Board of Directors 
The Board comprises three Non-Executive Directors.  
 
In common with other organisations of a similar size, the Directors review all the transactions and activities of the 
business. The Board of Directors meets three to four times a year and is responsible for formulating strategy and 
monitoring financial performance. The strategies proposed by management of the subsidiary are fully discussed, 
critically examined against the best and long term interests of not only the shareholders, but also employees, customers, 
suppliers and various communities within which the Group operates. During the year, all three serving Directors attended 
the three Board meetings that were held.  In addition to the scheduled meetings there is frequent contact between all the 
Directors in connection with the Groups business.  
The Board has full and timely access to relevant information throughout the Group.     
 
45
ASSOCIATED BRITISH ENGINEERING PLC  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
Non-Executive Directors 
 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for 
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.  There is also a formal agreed procedure for Directors in the 
furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice as necessary at the Company's expense. 
 
Under the Company's Articles of Association, at least one third of the Directors retire from office each year.  The retiring 
Director is eligible for re-election.  
 
 
Remuneration and Nomination  
 
Appointment to Executive Director would be fully discussed by the Chairman and the two Non-Executive Directors.  
Potential new Non-Executive Directors are proposed by all the members of the Board in the light of the Company's 
business requirements and the need to have a balanced Board. Possible candidates are discussed amongst all Directors 
before any approach is made to them.  
Communication with Shareholders 
 
 
The Chairman's Statement in the Annual Report contains a business review. An interim business review is also provided 
with the half yearly announcement. The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and 
governance matters. 
 
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 49 and show considerable and varied experience in the business world 
and the City.  The Board believes it is an effective independent body and therefore has not appointed a senior 
independent non-executive director. There have been no changes in the other significant commitments of the Chairman. 
The role of Non-Executive Directors is a vital element of corporate accountability.  Due to the small size of the Board 
and because there are no full time Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Directors do carry out certain limited specific 
executive responsibilities. 
The Board meets at least once a year to decide remuneration. Details of remuneration, policy and practices, together with 
the remuneration of the directors are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 47.  The level of remuneration 
for the Non-Executive Directors reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of the role. Remuneration for the Non-
Executive Directors does not include share options.  
 
 
The Board believes it is important to respond adequately to the queries of both private and institutional shareholders. The 
Group responds throughout the year to correspondence from shareholders on a wide variety of issues.  
 
The Board seeks to ensure that its report and accounts and other financial statements provide a clear assessment of the 
Group's business.  All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions and express their views at the Company's 
Annual General Meeting, at which all Directors are available to take questions.  
 
 
   
 
46
ASSOCIATED BRITISH ENGINEERING PLC 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 
 
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control.  These controls can only ever provide reasonable 
but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded against material loss or unauthorised use, that proper accounting 
records are maintained, and that the information used internally, or for publication, is accurate and reliable.  The key 
procedures, which exist to provide external control, are as follows - 
 
  clearly defined organisation structures with segregation of duties wherever practicable.  Operating and financial 
responsibilities for the subsidiary company are delegated to the subsidiary's Board and there are limits which 
apply to capital expenditure and significant contracts 
 
  Board control over treasury, taxation, legal, insurance and personnel issues 
- There was no formal review of the effectiveness of internal control during the period up to 31 March 2006 
 
 
The Board consider the independence and objectivity of the external auditors on an annual basis, with particular regard to 
non-audit services.  The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year and information on the nature of the non-audit 
fees appear in note 2 to the financial statements.  The non-audit fees are considered by the Board not to affect the 
independence or objectivity of the auditors.  The Board also receive an annual confirmation of independence from the 
auditors. 
GOING CONCERN 
 
 
  a regular review is undertaken to assess the risks facing the trading subsidiary and to enhance the systems which 
manage the risk identified.  Local management establishes control procedures for each of the risks identified and 
reports whether the key controls have operated effectively 
 
  agreement of Group short term financial objectives and business plans 
 
  review by the Board of monthly Group Financial Statements and monitoring of results against budget.  The 
Board attends regular Board meetings of the subsidiary 
 
  The acquisition or disposal of a business may not be completed without the approval of the Board.  
 
Through these mechanisms, Group performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their 
financial implication assessed, control procedure re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented. 
 
Nevertheless , the Board considers that it is unable to state that it has fully complied during the year with the Code.  The 
principal reasons for this are: 
 
- There was no receipt and review of formal reports on internal control. 
 
The Board believes that it is not currently appropriate for the Company to maintain an internal audit function due to the 
size of the Group. 
 
 
BPE has not been able to meet its statutory obligations concerning the Pension Fund, which has resulted in the need to 
conclude a settlement with the Pension Regulator and the PPF.  All sections of the ABE Pension Fund show an actuarial 
deficit of  4,395,000 at 31 March 2006 ( 4,124,000 at  31 March 2005), but all sections of the Pension Fund, with the 
exception of the BPE section, are in wind up.  Further details of the Pension Fund are set out in note 17 to the financial 
statements.  The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as the Board expects a successful 
outcome to negotiations with the Pension Regulator and the PPF, as explained in the Chairman's Statement. It therefore 
considers that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
 