 27
Audit Committee Report
The company's audit committee (Committee ) is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code
and its terms of reference were updated at the beginning of 2004 to reflect the Smith Guidance.  The terms of reference of the
Committee may be found on the company's website, www.rentokil-initial.com or, if a hard copy is required, by application to the
company secretary's department at the company's head office.
The Committee is authorised by the board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information
that it requires from any employee of the company and its subsidiaries and all employees are directed to co-operate with any
request made by the Committee. The Committee has the right to consult the company's professional advisors or, if it is not
satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice at the company's expense in the furtherance of
its duties.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr I Harley (chairman), Chartered Accountant, Mr P J Long, Chartered
Management Accountant, Mr P Mason and, until 25th May 2004, Mr R R Spinney.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the nomination committee and recommendations are made by the nomination
committee to the board. The Committee is normally comprised of three or more independent non-executive directors and two
members constitute a quorum.
In common with other members of the board, the members of the Committee are provided with an induction programme when
they join the board. Ongoing training includes attendance at board seminars and briefings by external advisors.  Particular
attention is paid to the understanding of the members of the Committee of the principles of and developments in financial
reporting and related company law and, in particular at the present time, the introduction and implementation of new
accounting standards.
The Committee has agreed that particular attention should be given to appropriate induction training programmes for new
members of the Committee, which are designed to ensure that the Committee properly considers all issues which fall within its
terms of reference.
The Committee meets four or more times each year.  The agenda for each meeting is set out in standing board procedures, which
are designed to ensure that the Committee properly considers all issues which fall within its terms of reference, but the
Committee and each member of it has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the standing items.
The Committee invites the chief executive, the finance director, director - risk management, treasury, tax and property, director -
corporate accounting and control, director - corporate internal audit and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend
its meetings.  The company secretary attends meetings in his role as secretary of the Committee.  The four committee meetings
held during the year were attended by all Committee members save that Mr Mason was unable to attend one meeting by reason
of prior business commitments.
In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Committee reviews, challenges and approves, as the case may be, presentations or
reports from senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.  During the year, the Committee specifically
considered the following issues:
  In order to fulfil its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting, the Committee reviewed the interim and annual
financial statements and the two trading statements issued on 19th May and 30th November 2004 and the associated Stock
Exchange announcements in accordance with its terms of reference.
  Changes proposed to accounting principles, policies and practices.
  Other significant accounting issues.
  The level of provisions and reserves.
  Litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the company and its subsidiaries.
  Potential tax contingencies and the company's compliance with statutory tax obligations.
  The review of the company's internal control systems and risk management systems in the light of reports submitted by
management, internal audit department and the external auditors (see also Accountability and Audit  below).
TERMS OF REFERENCE 
MEMBERS
MEETINGS
PROCEEDINGS   Reports on the system of internal controls and risk management reporting.
  Reports on treasury policies, procedures and delegated authorities.
  To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Committee reviewed the changes in key
audit staff in the external auditors' plan for the current year, the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit
relationship and a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements for the identification, reporting and
management of any conflicts of interest and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
  To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors and to fulfil its responsibilities for oversight of the external audit 
process, the Committee reviewed the following:
- the terms, areas of its responsibility, associated duties and scope of audit as set out in the external auditors'
engagement letter for the forthcoming year
- the external auditors' overall work plan for the forthcoming year, quality control procedures and steps taken by
external auditors to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements
- the external auditors' fee proposal
- the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution (including key accounting and 
audit judgements)
- the level of unadjusted misstatements identified during the audit
- the recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letter and the adequacy of 
management's response
  To fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of resourcing and standing of the internal audit function, the Committee
has reviewed the following:
- the internal audit department's terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the Committee and its plans and its
achievement of the planned activity
- the effectiveness of the internal audit function
- the appointment of a new director - corporate internal audit
  The Committee has adopted a whistleblowing policy which was implemented by the company and all its subsidiaries during 
the year under which each company in the group is obliged to adopt a whistleblowing procedure under which employees are
encouraged to report an abuse of company rules or the law to either the senior manager of their employer or to the company's
director - corporate internal audit.  The director - corporate internal audit is required to report to the Committee bi-annually on
the monitoring of whistleblowing procedures, the receipt of complaints and the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions
reached. Specific reports will be made by the director - corporate internal audit in relation to significant matters.
  The Committee has and will continue to review the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
by the company.
The annual report provides information on and an assessment of the company's business, operations, financial position and
prospects.  The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management, and reviews the effectiveness of the system at least annually in order to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the company's assets.  The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee assists the board in the performance of its responsibilities by reviewing the board procedures for review of
internal controls, internal and external auditors' reports on internal control issues and reports on internal controls and risk
management systems.
The board has established procedures necessary to implement the requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal controls
as reflected in the guidance on the review of companies' systems of internal control, in accordance with the Combined Code, 
which has been prepared by a working party established by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.  The risk
28
ACCOUNTABILITY
AND AUDIT
Audit Committee Report continued
PROCEEDINGS
(continued) 29
identification and management process has been in place during the whole of 2004 (and up to the 13th April 2005, the date 
of the approval of the audited 2004 accounts) and during the time the board, with the assistance of the Committee, has regularly
reviewed the process.  The Committee has also carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The process used to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls includes the review of reports on a six-monthly basis,
on legal compliance, claims issues, health & safety issues and environmental issues.  Insurance, risk management and treasury issues
are reviewed annually or more frequently if necessary.  In addition, the Committee reviews the scope of audits, the half-yearly and
annual financial statements (including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements) and trading statements and reports to
the board on financial issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
The Committee receives reports from the internal audit department and reviews the performance of the department.
In addition, the board has adopted a range of CSR policies (see pages 21 and 22) which are being implemented by the company
and its subsidiaries on a planned basis. The board is implementing a risk identification and management process in relation to
social, environmental and ethical issues similar to the process used by it in relation to internal controls.
This report was approved by the board of directors on 13th April 2005 and signed on its behalf by Mr I Harley.
I Harley
Chairman of the Audit Committee
13th April 2005
APPROVAL
ACCOUNTABILITY
AND AUDIT 
(continued)