 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10
Financial aspects of corporate governance
The Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance. The
Company aims to comply with the Combined Code (the Code ) which is appended to
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and has adopted a framework for corporate
governance which it believes is suitable for a company of its size.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Company's affairs.
The Directors have reviewed the principles outlined in the Code and believe that, insofar
as they are relevant to a company of its size, they have complied with the provisions of
the Code.
Directors' Statement of Compliance with the revised
Combined Code on Corporate Governance
The Directors continue to review the detailed principles and recommendations outlined
in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the revised Code) and believe
that, to the extent that they are relevant to the Company's business, they have complied
with the provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2010 and that the
Company's current practice is in all material respects consistent with the principles of
the revised Code.
The Board also confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and understanding,
procedures were in place to meet the requirements of the revised Code relating to
internal controls throughout the year under review.  This statement describes how the
principles of the revised Code have been applied in the affairs of the Company.
The Board
The Board currently consists of five members, two of whom are Non-Executive
Directors. Given the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have a Senior
Independent Director.
The Board met on eleven occasions throughout the year and all directors were present
with the exception of Mr B Whyte who was unable to attend two meetings and Mr R
Mitchell who was unable to attend one meeting. All major decisions as to the direction
and control of the Company are taken by the full Board. No one Director has unfettered
powers of decision. The Group's day to day operations are managed by the Executive
Directors. All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and any Director needing
independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties may obtain this advice
at the expense of the Company. The Executive Directors have a one-year rolling service
agreement with the Company.
The revised Code requires that this report should identify each non-executive director
the Board considers to be independent in character and judgement and whether there
are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect,
the director's judgement, stating its reasons if it determines that a director is
independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may
appear to be relevant to its determination. In the Board's opinion both Messrs Mitchell
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
and Whyte are considered to be independent in both character and judgement.
Accordingly two of the five Board members are independent.
Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to periodic retirement and re-
election by shareholders. In order to comply with the revised Code and the Articles of
Association, the Directors have adopted a policy providing for all directors to submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Accordingly Mr Vater shall retire, and, being eligible, shall offer himself for re-election. Mr
French, on attaining the age of seventy years shall retire and, being eligible, shall also
offer himself for re-election. A resolution to re-elect Messrs Vater and French is
contained with the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 35.
Messrs Vater and French have actively contributed in meetings throughout the year.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the other Board members recommend that
shareholders vote for the re-election of Messrs Vater and French as they believe that
their skills, knowledge and overall performance is of continued benefit to the Company.  
Corporate Governance Committees
The Board has established two Committees comprising the Non-Executive Directors
and one Executive Director. The members are:
Audit Remuneration
Robert Mitchell Barry Whyte
Barry Whyte Robert Mitchell
Dominic Boyce
Dominic Boyce is invited to attend the audit committee meetings.
The Board does not consider it necessary to have a Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Mitchell, met last year to review the audit
process, the published financial information and the effectiveness of external audit and
internal controls.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to review the effectiveness of the
internal control environment of the Company and to monitor adherence to best practice
in corporate governance; to make recommendations to the board in relation to the re-
appointment of the Auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms of
engagement; and to review and monitor the Auditors' independence and objectivity and
the effectiveness of the audit process and provide a forum through which the
Company's Auditors report to the Board. The Audit Committee also has responsibility for
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and accounting policies of the
Company. Committee members consider that individually and collectively they are
appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12
Saffery Champness, the company's Auditors have direct access to Committee
members. The chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the Annual General
meeting to deal with any questions relating to the accounts.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered the requirement for an internal audit
function and has concluded that given the current state of operations no internal audit
department is required.
Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Whyte
are:
l recommend to the Board a framework for rewarding senior management, including
Executive Directors, bearing in mind the need to attract and retain individuals of the
highest calibre and with the appropriate experience to make a significant contribution
to the Group; and
l ensure that the elements of the remuneration package are competitive and help in
underpinning the performance-driven culture of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee met once in the year to approve an increase in the
remuneration of the Executive directors following an improvement in the Company's
trading. It should be noted however, that the remuneration paid is in line with that
outlined in the company's AIM Admission Document.
Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. This is an ongoing process designed to ensure
adherence to the Group's policies whilst safeguarding the assets of the Group, in
addition to ensuring the management of the risks faced by the Group. This process has
been in place throughout the period and up to the date of signing this report.
Responsibility for implementing a system of internal controls is delegated to the Finance
Director.
An ongoing process is established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced
by the Group. A formal risk identification and analysis was conducted in the current
financial year.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's objectives. It should be
recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with guidance issued to directors of listed companies, the Directors have
carried out a review of the effectiveness of internal controls as they have operated
during the year.
Corporate Governance Report continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
Internal Control Assessment Process
Risk assessment and the review of internal controls are undertaken by the Board in the
context of the Group's overall strategy. The review covers the key business, operational,
compliance and financial risks facing the Group. In arriving at its judgement of what risks
the Group faces, the Board has considered the Group's operations in the light of the
following factors:
l The nature and extent of risks which it regards as acceptable for the Group to bear
within its overall business objective;
l The threat of such risks becoming a reality;
l The Group's ability to reduce the incidence and impact of risk on its performance; and
l The cost and benefits to the Group of operating the relevant controls.
Against this background, the Board has split its review into the following areas:
l Corporate strategy;
l Published information, compliance with laws and regulations; and
l Relationships with service providers.
Internal control
The key procedures established with a view to providing effective internal control are as
follows:
l Strategic business planning
Detailed financial projections for the current financial year are prepared and subject 
to formal review at least twice a year.
l Performance review
The Directors aim to monitor the Group's performance through the preparation of
monthly management accounts and regular reviews of cash flow projections and the
pipeline of future work.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board and the Directors are
available to enter into dialogue with shareholders. All shareholders are encouraged to attend
and vote at the Annual General Meeting during which the Board is available to discuss issues
affecting the Company. In addition the company maintains a website (www.riig.co.uk)
containing information on the Company of interest to corporate and private shareholders.