 25 Financial statements 30-63 Business review 1-15 Corporate governance 16-29
RETROSCREEN VIROLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Principles of corporate governance
The Company's Board appreciates the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk management 
but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity. It believes that corporate governance involves more than a simple box ticking  
approach to establish whether a company has met the requirements of a number of specific rules and regulations. Rather the issue is 
one of applying corporate governance principles (including those set out in the Corporate Governance Code for Small and Mid-Size 
Quoted Companies published by the Quoted Companies Alliance) in a sensible and pragmatic fashion having regard to the individual 
circumstances of a particular company's business. The key objective is to enhance and protect shareholder value.
Board of Directors
The Board of Retroscreen Virology Group plc comprises two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is the 
Chairman. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are distinct and are held by different people to ensure a clear division of 
responsibility. The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to bring valuable judgement and insight to Board deliberations and decisions. 
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced and influential individuals whose blend of skills and business experience contributes 
to the proper functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group 
dominates the Board's decision-making processes.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and in the course of their duties, if necessary, are able 
to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense. Committees have access to such resources as are required to fulfil 
their duties.
The Board receives regular reports detailing the progress of the Group, the Group's financial position and projections, as well as business 
development activities and operational issues, together with any other material deemed necessary for the Board to discharge its duties. 
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective operation and chairing of the Board and for ensuring that it receives appropriate 
information to make informed judgements. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates specific responsibilities to Committees, 
as described below. The terms of reference of the Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary. The Board is 
responsible for the review and approval of key policies and decisions in respect of business strategy and operations, Board appointments, 
budgets and forecasts, items of substantial investment and acquisitions.
Under the Articles of Association, all Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years. One third of the 
Directors retires by rotation at every Annual General Meeting and is eligible for re-appointment.
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee with written terms of delegated responsibilities for each.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors: Duncan Peyton, who chairs the Committee, David Norwood and Charles 
Winward. The external auditor, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director may be invited to attend Audit Committee meetings and, 
following each meeting, the Audit Committee and external auditor have the opportunity to meet without the Executive Directors 
present. The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
The Committee reviewed the half-year and full year results as well as the Half-year Report and Annual Report and Accounts prior to their 
submission to the Board and considered any matters raised by the external auditor. All scheduled Committee meetings were quorate and 
the conclusions from those meetings were presented to the Board.
In certain circumstances it is permitted by the Board for the auditor to supply non-audit services (for example, in the provision of tax 
advice). The Audit Committee has approved and monitored the application of this policy in order to safeguard auditor objectivity 
and independence. The overall fees paid to the auditor are not deemed significant enough to them so as potentially to impair their 
independence. The auditor is awarded assignments on a competitive basis and the Audit Committee pre-approves all permitted  
non-audit expenditure incurred and during the year reviews the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor. 
A formal Statement of Independence is received from the external auditor each year.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors: Charles Winward, who chairs the Committee, David Norwood 
and Duncan Peyton. The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice each year.
The Committee is responsible for considering the Executive Directors' and senior management's remuneration packages and makes its 
recommendations to the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings, other than when her own remuneration is 
discussed. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. 
Further details of Directors' remuneration are disclosed in the Directors' remuneration report. 26
RETROSCREEN VIROLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
CONTINUED
Internal control and risk management
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for safeguarding the shareholders' investments and the Group's assets. In applying this 
principle, the Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control that 
provides it with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance with laws 
and regulations. The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls. Since admission to AIM in May 
2012, management has invested significant time in further developing the Group's internal control environment. The key features of the 
internal control system are described below:
 	 control procedures and environment - the Group has an organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and 
authority. Employees are required to follow well-defined internal procedures and policies appropriate to the business and their 
position within the business and management promotes the highest levels of professionalism and ethical standards;
 	 identification and evaluation of risks - the Group employs Executive Directors and senior management with the appropriate 
knowledge and experience required for a medical and scientific research group. Identification and evaluation of risk is a continuous 
process running in parallel with the significant organic growth of the Group;
 	 financial information - the Group prepares detailed budgets and working capital forecasts annually. These are based upon the 
strategy of the Group and are approved by the Board. Detailed management accounts and working capital re-forecasts are reviewed 
at least quarterly for each Board meeting, with any variances from budget investigated thoroughly and a summary provided to the 
Board. Annual Reports, Preliminary Statements and Half-year Reports prepared by the Group are reviewed by the Audit Committee 
prior to approval by the Board;
 	 monitoring - the Board monitors the activities of the Group through the supply of reports from various areas of the business as 
contained in the Board papers. The Executive Committee performs a more detailed review, taking corrective action if required. 
The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Given the Group's relative small size, the Board does not consider it either necessary or practical at present to have its own internal audit 
function. The Board will continue to monitor the requirement to have an internal audit function.
Communication with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to communication with both institutional and private shareholders.
Regular communication is maintained with all shareholders through Company announcements, the Annual Report and Accounts, 
Preliminary Statements and Half-year Report. 
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its shareholders, especially considering 
the long-term nature of the business. Institutional shareholders are in contact with the Directors through presentations and meetings 
to discuss issues and to give feedback regularly throughout the year. With private shareholders this is not always practical. The Board, 
therefore, intends to use the Company's Annual General Meeting as the opportunity to meet private shareholders who are encouraged 
to attend, after which the Chief Executive Officer will give a presentation on the activities of the Group. Following the presentation there 
will be an opportunity to ask questions of Directors on a formal and informal basis and to discuss development of the business. 
The Company operates a website at www.retroscreen.com. The website contains details of the Group and its activities, regulatory 
announcements and Company announcements, Annual Reports and Half-year Reports, and the Terms of Reference of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.
Going concern
As disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, having made relevant and appropriate enquiries, including consideration 
of the Company and Group current resources and working capital forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, at the 
time of approving the financial statements, the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the 
next twelve months. Accordingly, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.