 26 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE REPORT
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the financial statements. The Directors are required to prepare
financial statements for the Group in accordance with IFRS and
have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company
in accordance with IFRS. Company Law requires the Directors 
to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, 
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial
statements present fairly for each financial year the Company's
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This
requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions,
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions
and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses
set out in the International Accounting Standards Board's
 Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial
Statements'. In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation 
will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International
Financial Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
  properly select and apply accounting policies.
  present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information.
  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity's financial position 
and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a
Directors' Report and Directors' Remuneration Report which
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Group's Web site. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE
The Group, has throughout the year, complied with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 ( the Code')
as published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance 
set out in section 1 of the Code. Further explanation of how the
principles have been applied is set out in the following text, in
connection with Directors' remuneration, in the relevant section
of the Remuneration Report and, in connection with internal
controls and principal risks in the relevant section of the Audit
Committee Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors
and five Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of Board 
members are provided on pages 30 and 31. Non-Executive
Directors are appointed for a fixed term, subject to re-election. 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer has been formally defined.
John Leighfield, the Group's Chairman, is not considered
independent under the terms of the Combined Code (A.3.1)
because he has served on the Board for more than nine years. 
He was independent at the time of his appointment. All of 
the Group's other Non-Executive Directors are considered
independent under the terms of the Code. Sherry Coutu 
is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters that are
brought to it for discussion and decision. This schedule includes
overall Group strategy, acquisition policy, internal controls, 
major capital investment and risk management, and is intended
to ensure that the Board maintains full and effective control 
over appropriate strategic, financial and compliance issues and
oversees operational activities. The Board delegates the operational
management of the Group to the Executive Committee. 
There is an established procedure for all Directors to take
independent professional advice, at the expense of the Group, 
as necessary in the pursuit of their duties.
BOARD MEETINGS
There is a formal schedule of eleven Board meetings a year. 
Board members also receive updates about Group activities 
by email, and communicate informally by telephone and email. 
Directors receive a detailed information pack, one week before
each Board meeting, which contains background papers on 
all the agenda items. Executive managers are regularly invited 
to Board meetings to present and discuss strategic topics 
with the Directors.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met without 
the Executive Directors present. The Non-Executive Directors, 
led by the Senior independent Non-Executive Director, also 
met to appraise the Chairman's performance.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
The Board has put in place a formal process for reviewing its
effectiveness and the effectiveness of its committees. This review 
is led by the Chairman and uses a process agreed by the Board 
as a whole. Each Board member provides an individual evaluation
of performance against a series of criteria, and these evaluations
are then used as the basis of a collective discussion.
In conducting this year's annual review of Board effectiveness a
small number of suggestions for improvement have been identified.
An assessment of the effectiveness of individual members of the
Board was carried out. 27 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
BOARD COMMITTEES
There are four Board committees: Audit, Remuneration,
Nominations and Transactions; each of which, apart from the
Transactions Committee, comprise only Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Bryan Carsberg and
comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors. It meets 
at least three times a year. The Company's external auditors, the
Chairman, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller
and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend part of these
meetings. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the
accounting policies, internal control assessment and the financial
information contained in the annual and interim reports. 
It provides an opportunity for the Non-Executive Directors to 
make independent judgements and contributions thus furthering
the effectiveness of RM's internal financial controls. Further
details of the Audit Committee's activities are given in the 
Audit Committee Report. The terms of reference for the 
Audit Committee are published on www.rm.com 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sherry Coutu and
comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors. It meets 
at least twice a year. Executive Directors and senior managers 
may be invited to attend Committee meetings, but will not 
be present during any discussion of their own pay arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration of RM's
Executive Directors and senior management. It also considers
grants and performance conditions under the RM Share Option
Schemes and reviews RM's employment strategy generally.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee's activities are
given in the Remuneration Report. The terms of reference for 
the Remuneration Committee are published on www.rm.com
The Nominations Committee is chaired by John Leighfield 
and comprises the Group Chairman and four independent 
Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least once a year, with 
more frequent meetings when the Group is actively selecting
Directors. The Nominations Committee recommends to the
Board candidates for appointment as Directors. During 2006 
the Committee met once.
The Transactions Committee is chaired by John Leighfield and
comprises the Group Chairman plus any one other independent
Non-Executive Director and any one Executive Director. It meets
at such times as the Chairman of the Committee requires. 
The Transactions Committee approves, enters into and executes
all deeds and documents and does all things that are necessary 
to give effect to any  Substantial Transaction' that has already 
been approved in principle by the Board.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee comprises Tim Pearson (Chairman),
Mike Greig and Rob Sirs. The Committee meets weekly with 
the Group's Human Resources Director invited to attend. The
Executive Committee is responsible for implementing the strategy
set out by the Group Board, preparing strategic proposals to be
considered by the Board, and providing day-to-day operational
management and control for the business. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
RM maintains regular contact with institutional shareholders,
fund managers and investment analysts through an active investor
relations programme. 
As part of this programme the Group's Chief Executive Officer
and Group Finance Director provide detailed briefings for
investment analysts and institutional shareholders at the time of
the Group's interim and preliminary results announcements; hold
regular meetings with analysts, institutional shareholders and fund
managers during the year; and typically host two analyst seminars
and two investor seminars during the year. The Group Chairman
attends at least one Group meeting with investment analysts
during the year and also meets major shareholders. The senior
Independent Non-Executive Director meets with major
shareholders at least annually. The Chair of the Remuneration
Committee consults with major shareholders annually about 
any significant proposed changes to remuneration policy.
Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual
General Meeting. In order to improve communications 
with investors in general and private investors in particular, 
the Group maintains a detailed investor relations Web site 
at www.rm.com/investors
The Board is provided with detailed, independently produced
reports providing non-attributable feedback from analysts,
institutional shareholders and fund managers following results
announcements and analyst/investor seminars. Discussion of these
reports is included as a formal agenda item at Board meetings.
The Board is also provided with regular updates about investor
relations activities and receives analysts' notes about RM as they
are published.
All Directors are available at the Group's AGM to address any
shareholder questions.
The Group was nominated in the Grand Prix for Best Smaller
Company Investor Relations category in the 2006 IR Magazine
awards.
RM has identified a senior manager (the Director of Corporate
Affairs) with responsibility for managing the Group's investor
relations programme.
GOING CONCERN
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the accounts.
A.J. ROBSON
Company Secretary
24 November 2006