 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 21
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing
those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Group and the Company. This enables
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for the system of
internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE
The Group has, throughout the year, complied with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 ( the
Code') as published by the Financial Reporting Council with 
the following exceptions:
  (Combined Code C.3.4) A formal  whistle blowing' policy
was not adopted by the Group until 1 August 2005, prior to
this informal arrangements were in place for staff to raise
concerns about possible improprieties. 
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance
set out in section 1 of the Code. Further explanation of how the
principles have been applied is set out in the following text, in
connection with Directors' remuneration, in the relevant section
of the Remuneration Report, and in connection with internal
controls and principal risks in the relevant section of the Audit
Committee Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors
and five Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of Board members
are provided on pages 26 and 27. Non-Executive Directors are
appointed for a fixed term, subject to re-election. They can serve 
a maximum of three terms. The division of responsibilities
between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been
formally defined.
John Leighfield, the Group' s Chairman, is not considered
independent under the terms of the Combined Code (A.3.1)
because he has served on the Board for more than nine years. He
was independent at the time of his appointment. All of the
Group' s other Non-Executive Directors are considered
independent under the terms of the Code. Sherry Coutu is the
Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters that are
brought to it for discussion and decision. This schedule includes
overall Group strategy, acquisition policy, internal controls, major
capital investment and risk management, and is intended to ensure
that the Board maintains full and effective control over appropriate
strategic, financial and compliance issues and oversees operational
activities. The Board delegates the operational management of the
Group to the Executive Committee. 
There is an established procedure for all Directors to take
independent professional advice, at the expense of the Group, 
as necessary in the pursuit of their duties.
BOARD MEETINGS
There is a formal schedule of 11 Board meetings a year. Board
members also receive updates about Group activities by email,
and communicate informally by telephone and email. 
Directors receive a detailed information pack, one week before
each Board meeting, which contains background papers on all the
agenda items. Executive managers are regularly invited to Board
meetings to present and discuss strategic topics with the Directors.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met without the
Executive Directors present. The Non-Executive Directors, led
by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, also met to
appraise the Chairman' s performance.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
The Board has put in place a formal process for annually
reviewing its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its committees.
This review is led by the Chairman and uses a process agreed by
the Board as a whole. Each Board member provides an individual
evaluation of performance against a series of criteria, and these
evaluations are then used as the basis of a collective discussion.
In conducting this year' s annual review of Board effectiveness a
small number of suggestions for improvement have been identified. 
An assessment of the effectiveness of individual members of the
Board was carried out.
BOARD COMMITTEES
There are four Board committees, namely Audit, Remuneration,
Nominations and T ransactions, all of which, apart from the
T ransactions Committee, comprise only Non-Executive Directors.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Bryan Carsberg 
and comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors. 
It meets at least three times a year. The Company' s external
auditors, the Group Finance Director, Group Financial
Controller and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend part
of these meetings. The Audit Committee is responsible for
reviewing the accounting policies, internal control assessment
and the financial information contained in the annual and
interim reports. It provides an opportunity for the 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT 22 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Non-Executive Directors to make independent judgements and
contributions thus furthering the effectiveness of RM' s internal
financial controls. Further details of the Audit Committee' s
activities are given in the Audit Committee Report. The terms 
of reference for the Audit Committee were made available for
inspection at the Group' s offices. 
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sherry Coutu and
comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors. It meets at
least twice a year. Executive Directors and senior managers may
be invited to attend Committee meetings, but will not be present
during any discussion of their own pay arrangements. The
Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration of RM' s
Executive Directors and senior management. It also considers
grants and performance conditions under the RM Share Option
Schemes and reviews RM' s employment strategy generally.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee' s activities are
given in the Remuneration Report.
THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by John Leighfield 
and comprises the Group Chairman and four independent 
Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least once a year, with 
more frequent meetings when the Group is actively selecting
Directors. The Nominations Committee recommends to the
Board candidates for appointment as Directors. During 2005 
the Committee met once.
THE TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE 
The T ransactions Committee is chaired by John Leighfield and
comprises the Group Chairman plus any one other independent
Non-Executive Director and any one Executive Director. It meets
at such times as the Chairman of the Committee requires. The
T ransactions Committee approves, enters into and executes all
deeds and documents and does all things that are necessary to give
effect to any  Substantial T ransaction' that has already been
approved in principle by the Board.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee comprises Tim Pearson (Chairman),
Mike Greig and Rob Sirs. The Committee meets weekly with the
Group' s Human Resources Director invited to attend. The
Executive Committee is responsible for implementing the
strategy set out by the Group Board, preparing strategic proposals
to be considered by the Board, and providing day-to-day
operational management and control for the business. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
RM maintains regular contact with institutional shareholders,
fund managers and investment analysts through an active
investor relations programme. 
As part of this programme the Group' s Chief Executive Officer
and Group Finance Director provide detailed briefings for
investment analysts and institutional shareholders at the time of
the Group' s interim and preliminary results announcements;
hold regular meetings with analysts, institutional shareholders
and fund managers during the year; and typically host two analyst
seminars and two investor seminars during the year. The Group
Chairman attends at least one Group meeting with investment
analysts during the year and also meets major shareholders. The
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director meets with major
shareholders at least annually. The Chair of the Remuneration
Committee consults with major shareholders annually about any
significant proposed changes to remuneration policy.
Private investors are encouraged to participate in the annual
general meeting. In order to improve communications with
investors in general and private investors in particular, the Group
maintains a detailed investor relations W eb site at
www.rm.com/investors
The Board is provided with detailed, independently produced
reports providing non-attributable feedback from analysts,
institutional shareholders and fund managers following results
announcements and analyst/investor seminars. Discussion of
these reports is included as a formal agenda item at Board
meetings. The Board is also provided with regular updates about
investor relations activities and receives analysts' notes about RM
as they are published.
All Directors are available at the Group' s AGM to address any
shareholder questions.
RM has identified a senior manager (the Director of Corporate
Affairs) with responsibility for managing the Group' s investor
relations programme.
GOING CONCERN
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the accounts.
A.J. ROBSON
Company Secretary
18 November 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT