 stock code: RM. RM plc Annual Report 2011 24
21269-04  28/01/2012 Proof 1
GOVERNANCE
The Audit Committee operates under terms of reference approved 
by the Board, with the purposes of:
z z appointing the Group's internal and external auditors;
z z reviewing the performance of and relationship with the 
Group's external auditor (including considering fee levels and 
the provision of non-audit work);
z z reviewing the performance of the Group's internal audit 
function;
z z reviewing the Group's financial reporting and internal control 
processes;
z z monitoring the integrity of the Group's financial statements 
and announcements regarding performance; and
z z ensuring that a system is operated for the assessment and 
management of key risks.
Composition and qualifications of the Audit Committee
During the period the Audit Committee comprised Sir Bryan 
Carsberg MSc(Econ), FCA (Chair), John Windeler (until 1 October 
2011), Jo Connell, Deena Mattar BSc (Econ), FCA (from 1 June 2011), 
Sir Mike Tomlinson (from 1 October 2011) and Lord Andrew Adonis 
(from 1 October 2011) all of whom are independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Group considers that Sir Bryan Carsberg, as a 
previous Secretary General of the International Accounting 
Standards Committee and a former Professor of Accounting and 
Deena Mattar as an FCA and former FTSE250 Finance Director 
both have significant recent technical accounting experience. Sir 
Bryan Carsberg has completed over nine years as a Director and 
Chair of the Audit Committee and, accordingly, has advised the 
Board that he does not intend to seek re-election at the next 
annual general meeting. Deena Mattar is to be appointed Chair 
of the Audit Committee following the annual general meeting.
John Leighfield (Chairman until 24 May 2011), Martyn Ratcliffe 
(Chairman from 1 June 2011), Iain McIntosh MA, FCA, Douglas 
Muir BSc, FCA (Group Financial Controller) and Edward Warwick 
MEng, ACA (Head of Internal Audit) are invited to attend Audit 
Committee meetings.
Schedule of meetings
The Audit Committee met four times during the period. Three of 
these meetings were part of the regular schedule of meetings set 
out in the Committee's terms of reference.
Audit Committee meetings have formal agendas, which cover all 
of the areas of responsibility set out in the Committee's terms of 
reference. These agendas include meetings with the external 
auditor without Executive Directors or managers of the Company 
present.
Appointment of external auditor
The Audit Committee recommended, and shareholders approved 
at the Group's AGM on 17 January 2011, the reappointment of 
Deloitte LLP as the Group's external auditor. During the 
subsequent period the Audit Committee conducted a market 
tender for the provision of external audit services to the Group. 
Following this process on 17 March 2011 the Committee resolved 
to appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Group external auditor. A resolution 
proposing that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor of the 
Company will be proposed at the next AGM.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Group's choice 
of external auditor.
Oversight of external audit
The Audit Committee has reviewed the scope and results of the 
audit services, and the cost effectiveness and independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee has approved the appointment of RM's 
Group Chief Accountant Edward Warwick MEng, ACA as Head of 
Internal Audit. For the purposes of this role, the Group Chief 
Accountant reports directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee, with the advice and support of the Head of 
Internal Audit, sets an internal audit plan. The Head of Internal 
Audit reports on progress against this plan at Audit Committee 
meetings. 
Policy on non-audit work
The Audit Committee has considered the issue of the provision of 
non-audit work by the external auditor and, in March 2003, has 
agreed a policy intended to ensure that the objectivity of the 
external auditor is not compromised. The policy sets a limit for 
fees for non-audit work and states that non-audit work should 
only be undertaken by the external auditor where there is a clear 
commercial benefit in doing so. Any significant activity must be 
approved, in advance, by at least two Audit Committee Members.
The Audit Committee has revised the policy to include a cap on 
fees for non-audit work of 25% of the annual audit fee. This fee 
incorporates a review of the Group's interim results and the 
provision of an opinion on compliance with banking covenants.
Audit Committee Report stock code: RM. RM plc Annual Report 2011 25 www.rmeducation.com
21269-04  28/01/2012 Proof 1
Business Review
GoveRnance
Financial statements Business Review GoveRnance Financial statements
In light of the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor 
during the period the Committee reviewed the existing non-audit 
services being provided by KPMG Audit Plc, including pensions 
advisory services. The Committee approved the exceeding of the 
cap of 25% on non-audit work as a consequence of these ongoing 
relationships. This target has therefore been revised to exclude 
pensions advisory work from the 25% cap as the Committee 
believes the value of continuity of pension advice currently exceeds 
the benefits of keeping within the 25% cap. Fees for non-audit work 
in the year period were 48% of the annual audit fee. 
Internal control
Control environment - The Board has put in place an organisational 
structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of 
authority to Executive management. Individuals are formally made 
aware of their level of authority and their budgetary responsibility 
which enables them to identify and monitor financial performance. 
There are established policies and procedures, which are subject to 
regular review. The Boards of the operating companies work within 
strict terms of reference and any matters outside those terms or the 
agreed business plan are referred to the Group Board for approval. 
The Group's selection and recruitment procedures are set to 
exacting criteria and the performance management process is 
supportive of these same criteria.
Identification and evaluation of business risks and control 
objectives - The Board has the primary responsibility for 
identifying the principal business risks facing the Group and 
developing appropriate policies to manage those risks. It 
delegates responsibility for operational risks to the Group 
Operating Board which meets monthly.
Management Information - Executive managers are required to 
produce a business plan for approval at the beginning of each 
financial year and detailed financial forecasts are formally compiled 
quarterly and reviewed by the Board. Consolidated management 
accounts are produced each month and results measured against 
plan and previous year to identify any significant variations.
Main control procedures - The financial systems and procedures 
established lead the Board to a high level of confidence in the 
completeness and accuracy of the recording of financial 
transactions. The well established processes in place and the level 
of analytical detail given within the management accounts facilitate 
the identification of unreliable data. The Group's treasury activities 
are operated within a defined policy designed to control the Group's 
cash and to minimise its exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Monitoring - The Audit Committee meets periodically to review 
reports from management and the external auditor so as to 
derive reasonable assurance on behalf of the Board that financial 
control procedures are in place and operate effectively. An 
internal audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee and 
has annual plans agreed by the Audit Committee.
 Whistle blowing' policy
The Group has adopted a formal  whistle blowing' policy, which 
allows staff to raise concerns about possible improprieties. No 
concerns were raised during the year.
Anti-Bribery
RM conducts all its business in an honest and ethical manner and 
seeks to ensure that all associates and business partners do the 
same.
The Bribery Act 2010 sets clear standards of behaviour, which 
govern our operations.   We have implemented robust policies 
and procedures to ensure we are transparent and ethical in all 
our business dealings. We have an anti-corruption and anti-
bribery policy which sets out the legal standards we enforce as 
part of our ongoing commitment to implement adequate 
procedures to guard against illegal practices.
Statement of risks
As with any business, RM is exposed to risks as an inherent part 
of creating value for shareholders. As described above, the Group 
has put in place processes designed to identify these principal 
risks and to manage and mitigate the effect of them. The Audit 
Committee is responsible for ensuring that risks are properly 
considered and the Board is responsible for deciding what risks 
should be taken and how best to manage and mitigate the risks.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Group's risk 
management and internal control processes provide a high level 
of confidence that Executive management has identified and 
addressed the principal risks affecting RM.
The most significant risks the Group is exposed to are set out in 
the Report of the Directors.
Sir Bryan Carsberg
Chairman, Audit Committee
6 February 2012