 Statement of compliance with the 
Combined Code 
The Company has complied throughout the year
ended 31 December 2003 with the principles of
good governance (Principles ) and the Code of
Best Practice known as the Combined Code and
which is annexed to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, except that the
Non-executive Directors did not have fixed term
contracts (code provision para. A.6.1) and that the
Board had not appointed a   senior independent
Non-executive Director' (code provision para. A.2.1).
All Non-executive Directors' contracts include
notice periods and the terms of the contracts will
be reviewed, as will be the position of a senior
independent Non-executive Director.
Further explanation of how the Principles have
been applied is set out below and, in connection
with Directors' remuneration, in the report of the
Remuneration Committee. 
The Group's approach to corporate governance 
The Group has a policy of seeking to comply with
established best practice in the field of corporate
governance. In addition, one of the core values
communicated within the Group is a belief that
the highest standard of integrity is essential in
business. The Group has an express aim of
respecting the needs of shareholders, staff,
clients, candidates and contractors. 
Board effectiveness 
The Board, which meets on a regular basis
throughout the year, considers that it has shown
its commitment to leading and controlling the
Group by:
-having a Board constitution which details the
Board's responsibility to shareholders for the
management of the Group's affairs. It exercises
direction and supervision of the Group's
operations throughout the world and defines the
line of responsibility from the Board to the Chief
Executive and the Executive Directors in whom
responsibility for the executive management of
the business is vested;
- the Board retaining specific responsibility for
agreeing the strategic direction of the Group,
the approval of accounts, business plan, budget
and capital expenditure, the review of operating
results, the effectiveness of governance practice
and risk management, and also the appointment
of senior executives and succession planning;
- the provision of appropriate training to all new
Directors at the time of appointment to the
Board, and by ensuring that existing Directors
receive such training as to be equipped with
the skills required to fulfil their roles; and
-a high level of attendance by the Directors at
Board meetings, which exceeded 95% during
the year.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman
and Chief Executive
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing
responsibilities for the Board and running the
Company's business by:  
-appointing Timothy Barker as Non-executive
Chairman;
- appointing Robert Walters as Chief Executive; and 
- clearly defining in writing the respective
responsibilities of the Chairman and the
Chief Executive.
Board balance 
The Group's commitment to achieving a balance of
Executive and Non-executive Directors is shown by:
-  the Non-executive Directors comprising more
than half of the Board of seven Directors;
- the four Non-executive Directors being
considered to act independently of management
and free from any business relationship that
could materially interfere with the exercise of
their independent judgement; and
- Timothy Barker, Philip Aiken and Graham Luff
being considered to be free from any other
relationship which could materially interfere with
the exercise of their independent judgement.
Russell Tenzer has been a Non-executive Director
within the Robert Walters Group since 1989 and as
a result, the Board considers that Russell does
have a long-standing relationship with two of the
Executive Directors.
corporate governance statement
|  18 |
robert walters plc |  annual report and accounts 2003 The Board has formally considered this relationship
and has concluded that the exercise of
independent judgement since his appointment to
the Board of Robert Walters plc in July 2000 has
not been affected.
Transparency of Board appointments
The Nomination Committee is responsible for
nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and
for making recommendations on Board
composition and balance. The members of the
Committee are the Non-executive Directors -
Timothy Barker (Chairman), Philip Aiken, Graham
Luff and Russell Tenzer.
The Nomination Committee has written terms
of reference which are available on request. 
The procedure for appointments to the Board
includes the requirement to specify the nature of
the position in writing and to ensure that appointees
have sufficient time available to meet the demands
of the position. The terms of the contracts for the
Non-executive Directors are available on the
Company web site and upon request.
Regular re-election of Directors 
As disclosed in the Directors' Report, all Directors
are subject to re-election every three years as
required by the provisions of the Code of Best
Practice. Re-appointment is not automatic and
follows a formal process. Prior to re-nomination,
the Nomination Committee will conduct an
assessment of the performance of each retiring
Director. The Board will not approve such a re-
nomination if the performance of the retiring
Director is not considered satisfactory. 
Timeliness and quality of Board information 
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are
properly briefed on issues arising at Board
meetings by establishing procedures for: 
- distributing Board papers in advance of meetings
and considering the adequacy of the information
provided before making decisions;  
- adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when
Directors have concerns about the information
available to them; and 
- making the Company Secretary responsible
to the Board for the timeliness and quality
of information.
Performance evaluation 
A performance appraisal of the Board and its
Committees was introduced during 2003 and will
be further developed in 2004.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual
understanding of objectives between the Company
and its institutional shareholders by:
-making an annual and interim presentation to
institutional investors;
-meeting shareholders to discuss long term issues
and obtain their views;
-communicating regularly throughout the year; and
- regular meetings of the Board are used as the
forum to ensure that Non-executive Directors are
updated on the views of major shareholders
that have been communicated to the
Executive Directors.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting 
The Board seeks to use the Annual General
Meeting to communicate with private investors
and encourage their participation by: 
-inviting shareholders to submit questions in 
advance; and
- providing a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Group's position
and prospects. 
Internal control 
The Board is responsible for reviewing the
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
control. A review has been completed for the year
ended 31 December 2003 in accordance with the
recommendations of the Turnbull Report. The
Group's system of internal control is designed to
safeguard the Group's assets and to ensure the
reliability of information used within the business
and for publication. Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. 
robert walters plc |  annual report and accounts 2003
|  19 | The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule
of matters which are required to be brought to it or
its duly authorised Committees for decision, aimed
at maintaining full and effective control over
appropriate strategic, financial, operational and
compliance issues.
The Board has put in place an organisational
structure with clearly defined responsibilities and
delegation of authority. The Board constitution
clearly sets out those matters for which the Board
is required to give its approval. 
The Audit Committee continually reviews the need
for a dedicated internal audit function. However,
at present the Audit Committee has determined
that given the size and nature of the Group's
operations a separate internal audit function is not
required. This decision will be regularly reviewed
in the future. The Board continually seeks to
improve the robustness of internal checks and
balances within the Group and to implement
controls and processes to address areas of
potential improvement that come to the attention
of the Board.
A process has been put in place to assess the risk
within the business and to report and monitor such
risk. The Group has an Audit Committee which
meets regularly, receives reports identifying the
key internal controls in existence and also risk
reports from the business. The Audit committee
then evaluates the effectiveness of those controls
and the management of key risks within the
Group. The members of the Audit Committee are
Graham Luff (Chairman), Russell Tenzer and Philip
Aiken, all of whom are Non-executive Directors.
Appropriate Audit Committee responsibilities
and relationships with Auditors 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit
Committee for making recommendations on the
appointment, evaluation and dismissal of external
Auditors. It is the intention of the Audit Committee
to consider a review of its terms of reference on
an annual basis, and specifically to review the
introduction of a policy with respect to the
provision of non-audit services provided to the
Group by the external Auditors.
The Audit Committee met four times during 2003
and all members attended the meetings, with the
exception of one apology.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist
the Board in relation to the reporting of
financial information. 
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a
year with the Group's senior financial management
and external Auditors to review the interim and
annual financial statements, the accounting
policies of the Group, its internal financial control
procedures and compliance with accounting
standards, business risk, legal requirements and
the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibility
in respect of the annual financial statements by:
reviewing the terms of the scope of the external
audit in advance of the audit; and, subsequently
evaluating the findings of the external audit as
presented to the Audit Committee by the external
Auditors prior to the approval of the annual
financial statements.
The Audit Committee recognises the importance
of ensuring the independence and objectivity of
the Company's Auditors and reviews the service
provided by the Auditors, the level of their fees and
that element comprising non-audit fees. The Audit
Committee meets with the Auditors at least once
a year without management being present.
The Audit Committee also reviews the
arrangements by which staff may raise concerns
of a confidential nature, relating to potential
improprieties or otherwise. The Audit Committee
considers that the nomination of Graham Luff as
a point of contact for raising any such matter is an
appropriate measure and the procedure for raising
such concerns is detailed on the Group's intranet.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee
are available upon request.
corporate governance statement continued
|  20 |
robert walters plc |  annual report and accounts 2003