 ROBERT WISEMAN DAIRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
28[29]
The Company is committed to the
principles of Corporate Governance
contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the Combined
Code ), which is appended to the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority
and for which the Board is accountable 
to shareholders. Its compliance with the
principles is demonstrated by the way 
the Board operates in conjunction with its
committees, the processes for dealing with
directors' remuneration, its communication
with shareholders and its control systems.
The Board has reviewed its corporate
governance policies and practices in the
light of the new Combined Code, published
by the Financial Reporting Council in July
2003, which will apply to the financial year
commencing 4 April 2004. The Board
intends to support the provisions of the new
Combined Code and will report against the
new Code's provisions in the 2005 Annual
Report. Compliance will require changes
such as updating the terms of reference 
for the Board's committees and formalising
the process for board evaluation. For the
avoidance of doubt, any reference in this
statement to the Combined Code refers 
to the Combined Code as issued by the
Hampel Committee in June 1998 and
subsequently appended to the Listing Rules.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CODE OF BEST PRACTICE
The Company has complied throughout the
year ended 3 April 2004 with the Provisions
of the Code of Best Practice set out in
section 1 of the Combined Code other 
than the following matters.
non compliance with Code Provision 
B.1.7 which states that service contracts
for executive directors should be reduced
to one year or less. It is the Board's view
that the 18-month service contracts of
the existing executive directors are
appropriate and fully justified.
non compliance with Code Provision 
D.3.1 which states that the Board should
establish an audit committee of at least
three directors, all non-executive.
Between the resignation of N Lessels on
3 July 2003 and the appointment of N L
Murray on 1 September 2003 the Audit
Committee had two members. The Audit
Committee did not meet in that period.
STATEMENT ABOUT APPLYING THE
PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE
The Company has applied the Principles of
Good Governance as set out in section 1 of
the Combined Code by complying with the
Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles
have been applied is set out below and, 
in connection with directors' remuneration, 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
The Board considers that it shows its
commitment to leading and controlling 
the Company by meeting on a regular 
basis through the year, arranging to meet
or discuss any matters which may arise
between meetings, considering how and 
to whom matters covered at each meeting
should be communicated beyond the Board
and arranging for non-executive directors
to visit the Group's principal locations as
considered appropriate.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board has shown its commitment to
the division of responsibilities for running
the Board and running the Company's
business by A W Wiseman acting as
Chairman and R T Wiseman acting as
Managing Director. N Lessels, who was 
the Senior Independent Director and 
who chaired the Audit and Remuneration
Committees, resigned as a director on 
3 July 2003. N L Murray was appointed 
as a director on 1 September 2003 and 
is the Senior Independent Director.
BOARD BALANCE
The Company's commitment to achieving 
a balance of executive and non-executive
directors is shown by the fact that it
operates with three independent non-
executive directors and three executive
directors.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established an audit
committee, a remuneration committee 
and a nomination committee, each of 
which has formal terms of reference
approved by the Board. The terms of
reference for each of these committees
have been updated to meet the provisions
of the new Combined Code.
The Audit Committee is chaired by 
N L Murray and also comprises the other
non-executive directors, A Dare and 
E Finch. The Committee meets as necessary.
Its terms of reference include the review of
internal controls, accounting policies and
financial reporting. The Finance Director
normally attends the meetings. Senior
representatives of the external auditors
also normally attend.
E Finch was appointed as chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee which 
also comprises the other non-executive
directors, A Dare and N L Murray. The
Committee is charged with establishing
executive directors' remuneration and is
responsible for approving grants of and
changes to the Company's long term
incentive plan and share option schemes.
The Committee is also consulted and
informed on appointments and remuneration
of subsidiary company directors.
The Nomination Committee is chaired 
by A W Wiseman and also comprises 
three non-executive directors, N L Murray,
A Dare and E Finch. The Committee 
is charged with considering future
appointments to and from the Board.
TIMELINESS AND QUALITY OF BOARD
INFORMATION
The Board receives a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved to it 
for decision, such as future strategy,
acquisitions and disposals, capital
expenditure, trading and capital budgets
and Group borrowing facilities. The Board
has sought to ensure that directors are
properly briefed on issues arising at board
meetings by establishing procedures for
distributing board papers one week in
advance of meetings, considering the
adequacy of the information provided
before making decisions and making the
company secretary responsible to the
Board for the timeliness and quality of
information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE ROBERT WISEMAN DAIRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
[28]29
TRANSPARENCY OF BOARD APPOINTMENTS
In the Board's view, formal and transparent
procedures are followed when appointing
directors. In particular, the Nomination
Committee considers a number of candidates
for any available post of a new director and
as part of the process may use external
consultants. The Nomination Committee
seeks to reach a consensus prior to
recommending the appointment to the
Board.
REGULAR RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
All directors are subject to re-election every
three years. Directors appointed to the Board
other than at an Annual General Meeting of
the Company are required to retire at the
following Annual General Meeting when they
may offer themselves for reappointment.
One third of the remaining members of the
Board presently are required to retire by
rotation and they may also offer themselves
for reappointment.
DIALOGUE WITH INSTITUTIONAL
SHAREHOLDERS
It is the practice of the Company to hold
presentations for analysts and institutional
shareholders following the announcement
of the Company's annual and interim
results. The Senior Non-executive Director
attends a number of these meetings.
Additional presentations are held when
appropriate. The Board is always willing 
to enter into dialogue with institutional
shareholders to the extent that this does
not compromise its obligation to advise
shareholders generally of significant
events. The Company responds to all
correspondence from individual
shareholders.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING
All shareholders who attend the Company's
Annual General Meeting are invited by the
Chairman to ask relevant questions and all
reasonable effort is made to deal in as full
a manner as is possible with all matters
properly raised. The Chairman aims to
ensure that the chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees are available 
at the Annual General Meeting to answer 
questions. The results of proxies are
disclosed at the Annual General Meeting
and the notice of the meeting is issued 
at least 20 working days before the date 
of the meeting.
BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
ASSESSMENT OF POSITION AND PROSPECTS
The Board has shown its commitment to
presenting balanced and understandable
assessments of the Company's position and
prospects by complying with non-mandatory
statements issued by the Accounting
Standards Board relating to the operating
and financial review included in this Annual
Report, its preliminary announcement 
and its interim report and canvassing the
views of investors and analysts on how 
the Company could improve its financial
reporting.
MAINTENANCE OF A SOUND SYSTEM OF
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board acknowledges it is responsible
for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. The
system is designed to manage, not to
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives. It can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group has been in place from the
start of the year to the date of approval of
this report and is regularly reviewed. The
process accords with the Internal Control:
Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code published in September 1999. The key
elements of this process are summarised
below:
the Board reviews the strategic direction
of the Group and has primary responsibility
for identifying the major business risks
and developing appropriate strategies
and approaches to manage these risks;
a risk assessment programme evaluates
and prioritises the business risks
relevant to the Group;
a Risk Register is maintained that identifies
those responsible for each risk and
identifies the significance and likelihood of
occurrence, the controls and procedures
in place in respect of each risk and the
actions being taken, where appropriate,
to manage risks to the desired level; and
each department produces reports
detailing the status of the business 
risks identified on a regular basis.
The Risk Register continues to be updated
through a Risk Assessment Programme
and the status of the risks identified
updated.
The Board derives assurance from the
following matters:
a schedule of matters specifically
reserved for decision by the Board;
policies and procedures established 
for the key business objectives;
an appropriate organisational structure 
and management skills;
segregation of duties where appropriate
and cost effective;
business and financial reporting as well 
as regular revised forecasts;
reports from the Audit Committee;
external audits; and
internal reviews of procedures.
The Audit Committee and Board have
reviewed the need for an internal audit
function and have concluded that, at this
stage in the Group's development, such a
function is not required.
ADOPTION OF GOING CONCERN BASIS
After making enquiries, the directors have
a reasonable expectation that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE