 The Company is committed to the
principles of Corporate Governance
contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the Combined
Code ), which is appended to the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority
and for which the Board is accountable 
to shareholders. Its compliance with the
principles is demonstrated by the way 
the Board operates in conjunction with its
committees, the processes for dealing with
directors' remuneration, its communication
with shareholders and its control systems.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CODE OF BEST PRACTICE
The Company has complied throughout 
the year ended 29 March 2003 with the
Provisions of the Code of Best Practice 
set out in section 1 of the Combined Code
other than non compliance with Code
Provision B.1.7 which states that service
contracts for executive directors should 
be reduced to one year or less. It is the
Board's view that the 18-month service
contracts of the executive directors are
appropriate and fully justified.
STATEMENT ABOUT APPLYING THE
PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE
The Company has applied the Principles of
Good Governance as set out in section 1 of
the Combined Code by complying with the
Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles
have been applied is set out below and, 
in connection with directors' remuneration, 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
The Board considers that it shows its
commitment to leading and controlling 
the Company by meeting on a monthly
basis through the year, arranging to meet
or discuss any matters which may arise
between meetings, considering how and 
to whom matters covered at each meeting
should be communicated beyond the Board
and arranging for non-executive directors
to visit the Group's principal locations as
considered appropriate.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board has shown its commitment to
the division of responsibilities for running
the Board and running the Company's
business by A W Wiseman acting as
Chairman, N Lessels acting as Senior
Independent Director and R T Wiseman
acting as Managing Director. Subsequent 
to 29 March 2003 N Lessels announced 
he was to resign as a director. A Senior
Independent Director will be identified
subsequent to his resignation.
BOARD BALANCE
The Company's commitment to achieving 
a balance of executive and non-executive
directors is shown by the fact that it
operates with three independent non-
executive directors and three executive
directors.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Audit Committee is chaired by N Lessels
and also comprises the other non-executive
directors, A Dare and E Finch. Subsequent
to 29 March 2003 N Lessels announced he
was to resign as a director. A new Chairman
of the Committee will be appointed during
the year. The Committee meets as necessary.
Its terms of reference include the review of
internal controls, accounting policies and
financial reporting. The Finance Director
normally attends the meetings. Senior
representatives of the external auditors
also normally attend.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired 
by N Lessels and also comprises the other
non-executive directors, A Dare and E Finch.
Subsequent to 29 March 2003 N Lessels
announced he was to resign as a director. 
E Finch has agreed to chair the Committee
in future. The Committee is charged with
establishing executive directors' remuneration
and is responsible for approving grants of
and changes to the Company's long term
incentive plan and share option schemes.
The Committee is also consulted and
informed on appointments and remuneration
of subsidiary company directors.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by 
A W Wiseman and also comprises three
non-executive directors, N Lessels, A Dare
and E Finch. The Committee is charged
with considering future appointments to
and from the Board.
TIMELINESS AND QUALITY OF BOARD
INFORMATION
The Board receives a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved to it 
for decision, such as future strategy,
acquisitions and disposals, capital
expenditure, trading and capital budgets
and Group borrowing facilities. The Board
has sought to ensure that directors are
properly briefed on issues arising at board
meetings by establishing procedures for
distributing board papers one week in
advance of meetings, considering the
adequacy of the information provided
before making decisions and making the
company secretary responsible to the
Board for the timeliness and quality of
information.
TRANSPARENCY OF BOARD APPOINTMENTS
In the Board's view, formal and transparent
procedures are followed when appointing
directors. In particular, the Nomination
Committee considers a number of candidates
for any available post of a new director. 
The Nomination Committee seeks to reach
a consensus prior to recommending the
appointment to the Board.
REGULAR RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
All directors are subject to re-election every
three years. Directors appointed to the Board
other than at an Annual General Meeting of
the Company are required to retire at the
following Annual General Meeting when they
may offer themselves for reappointment.
One third of the remaining members of the
Board presently are required to retire by
rotation and they may also offer themselves
for reappointment.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ROBERT WISEMAN DAIRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 25
24 DIALOGUE WITH INSTITUTIONAL
SHAREHOLDERS
It is the practice of the Company to hold
presentations for analysts and institutional
shareholders following the announcement
of the Company's annual and interim
results. Additional presentations are 
held when appropriate. The Board is 
always willing to enter into dialogue with
institutional shareholders to the extent that
this does not compromise its obligation to
advise shareholders generally of significant
events. The Company responds to all
correspondence from individual
shareholders.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING
All shareholders who attend the Company's
Annual General Meeting are invited by the
Chairman to ask relevant questions and all
reasonable effort is made to deal in as full
a manner as is possible with all matters
properly raised. The Chairman aims to
ensure that the chairman of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees is available 
at the Annual General Meeting to answer
questions. The results of proxies are
disclosed at the Annual General Meeting
and the notice of the meeting is issued 
at least 20 working days before the date 
of the meeting.
BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
ASSESSMENT OF POSITION AND PROSPECTS
The Board has shown its commitment to
presenting balanced and understandable
assessments of the Company's position 
and prospects by complying with non-
mandatory statements issued by the
Accounting Standards Board relating to 
the operating and financial review included
in this Annual Report, its preliminary
announcement and its interim report 
and canvassing the views of investors 
and analysts on how the Company 
could improve its financial reporting.
MAINTENANCE OF A SOUND SYSTEM OF
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board acknowledges it is responsible
for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. The
system is designed to manage, not to
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives. It can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by 
the Group has been in place from the start
of the year to the date of approval of this
report and is regularly reviewed. The
process accords with the Internal Control:
Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code published in September 1999. The key
elements of this process are summarised
below:
_
the Board reviews the strategic
direction of the Group and has primary
responsibility for identifying the major
business risks and developing
appropriate strategies and approaches
to manage these risks;
_
a risk assessment programme
evaluates and prioritises the business
risks relevant to the Group;
_
a Risk Register is maintained that
identifies those responsible for each
risk and identifies the significance and
likelihood of occurrence, the controls
and procedures in place in respect of
each risk and the actions being taken,
where appropriate, to manage risks 
to the desired level; and
_
each department produces reports
detailing the status of the business
risks identified on a regular basis.
The Risk Register continues to be updated
through a Risk Assessment Programme and
the status of the risks identified updated.
The Board derives assurance from the
following matters:
_
a schedule of matters specifically
reserved for decision by the Board;
_
policies and procedures established 
for the key business objectives;
_
an appropriate organisational 
structure and management skills;
_
segregation of duties where
appropriate and cost effective;
_
business and financial reporting 
as well as regular revised forecasts;
_
reports from the Audit Committee;
_
external audits; and
_
internal reviews of procedures.
The Audit Committee and Board have
reviewed the need for an internal audit
function and have concluded that, at this
stage in the Group's development,
such a function is not required.
ADOPTION OF GOING CONCERN BASIS
After making enquiries, the directors have
a reasonable expectation that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ROBERT WISEMAN DAIRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
26
27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED