 The compensating positive effects were a further
improvement in gross margins and an underlying
reduction in operating costs.
Revenue
Group revenue reduced by 9% on the previous year as
a result of destocking and lower polymer prices.
North American revenues fell by 49% due to several
large cosmetics customers who were holding
substantial stock overhang from 2008 and whose own
sales, mainly in the toiletries sector, were very weak.
Central European revenues increased by 29% (41% in
local currency terms) as we benefited from the full
year effect of business transferred from the UK
together with new business gained.
Profitability
Profit before tax was  0.7m (2008:  1.3m).This result
was influenced by the following significant factors:
> the gross margin improved from 18% to 20% of
revenues. This is attributable to better management
of the customer mix, lower direct costs (notably
electricity and transport), and lower polymer prices
> an overhead cost reduction of  0.4m was offset by
 0.7m currency exchange effect resulting in an
operating cost increase of  0.3m
> the notional finance income in respect of the
pension fund reduced by  0.7m to  0.4m as a
consequence of moving the fund from equities to
bonds during 2008
> exceptional profits on the sale of property of  0.2m
were offset by redundancy costs incurred at
Chesterfield and Kirkby.
Cash & finances
Capital expenditure on new plant and machinery of
 0.8m (2008:  1.0m) was low in relation to the
depreciation charge of  1.5m (2008:  1.6m). The sale
of surplus properties yielded  0.4m whilst working
capital levels remained constant resulting in positive
cash flows which enabled a reduction in net
borrowings from  3.7m to  2.9m.
Dividends
The interim dividend was cut from 1.5p to 1.0p per
share following the announcement of the first half
results. At that stage the Board was mindful of the
need to conserve cash given the sudden drop in sales
and the considerable uncertainty as to the future
economic climate. However, with an improvement in
our recent performance, the Board proposes an
unchanged final dividend of 1.75p per share to be paid
on 7 June 2010 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 21 May 2010.
Outlook
So far this year market conditions have been stable
for most of our customers. We are conscious of the
possible effects of the economy and Government
policy on our costs and on consumer demand but as
the Group is mainly exposed to the food, drink and
toiletry sectors we do not expect our sector to be
greatly affected. Our progress so far is in line with the
Board's expectations, including significantly improved
revenues in Europe. 
The Board is reviewing the strategic importance and
viability of its North American operation in Toronto
and is seeking ways of strengthening its European
business. We expect the Central European business
based in Poland to show further growth in 2010.
Richard Clothier
Chairman
25 March 2010
After good progress in 2008, the outcome for 2009 was disappointing. A sharp drop
in revenue occurred during the second quarter of the year as a consequence of our
customers reacting to the general economic outlook by reducing their stockholding
and, as a result, the first half was 15% below the same period in 2008.
I am pleased to report, however, that in the second half revenues recovered to only
slightly below the previous year . In the face of a 9% drop in sales for the year as a
whole, profit held up disproportionately well. Profit before tax for the year was
 0.7m, a reduction from  1.3m in 2008 but it is important to point out that this
includes a  0.7m lower notional pension finance credit and a negative swing of
 0.7m due to exchange rate movements.
08 Chairman's report
Robinson plc    Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
robinson09-pages.qxd:robinson09-pages.qxd  31/03/2010  08:00  Page 9 The Board
The Company supports the concept of an effective
board leading and controlling the Group. The Board is
responsible for approving Group policy and strategy
and the Directors are free to seek any further
information they consider necessary. All Directors
have access to independent professional advice at the
Group's expense.
The Board has a written statement of its
responsibilities and there are written terms of
reference for the Nomination, Remuneration and
Audit committees. The Chairman and Non-executive
Director, whose time commitment to the Company are
commensurate with their remuneration, hold other
positions as set out in the biographies below.
The Board meets regularly on dates agreed each year
for the calendar year ahead. This is typically seven
times per year although additional meetings are
called as and when deemed necessary.
The Board consists of a Non-executive Chairman, one
other Non-executive Director, a Chief Executive and a
Finance Director/Company Secretary. This provides a
broad background of experience and a balance
whereby the Board's decision making cannot be
dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the
Board is Richard Clothier and the Group's business is
run by the Chief Executive (Adam Formela) and Guy
Robinson, the Finance Director and Company
Secretary. The biographies of the Directors, who we
consider to be the key managers of the business, are
set out below:
Richard Clothier (1)
Non-executive Chairman
After a period with the Milk Marketing Board, Richard
joined the Dalgety group in 1977. In 1988 he was
appointed Chief Executive of PIC which was then a
subsidiary of the group. In 1992 he was appointed to
the main board of Dalgety Plc and took over as Group
Chief Executive in 1993. In 1998 he joined PGI Group
Plc as Chief Executive. He also served as non-
executive director of Granada Plc until 2004 and is
currently Chairman of Aqua Bounty Technologies Plc,
Spearhead International Ltd and Sales Activation
Solutions Ltd. Richard joined the Robinson Board in
May 2004.
Adam Formela (2)
Chief Executive
Adam started his career with Black & Decker, rising
to the rank of European Director of Sales & Marketing
before moving into general management with
Electrolux and then Kenwood Appliances. He then
moved to GRP Ltd, a Singapore listed company as
Group Chief Executive, before returning to Europe to
work with Acco Brands Corporation as vice president
of operations, business development and sales &
marketing before becoming President of the
Document Communication division. Adam joined the
Board in February 2007.
Guy Robinson (3)
Finance Director & Company Secretary
Guy has an honours degree in mechanical engineering
from Nottingham University and qualified as a
Chartered Accountant in 1981 at Coopers & Lybrand,
working for them until he joined Robinson as
Management Information Systems manager in
1985. He has held the positions of Group Finance
Controller and Packaging Division Financial Director
and was appointed Group Finance Director in 1995.
He has been responsible for working with the Board
on a number of business acquisitions and disposals
and is responsible for the Group's significant
property portfolio.
Anthony Glossop (4)
Non-executive Director
Anthony was appointed a director in 1995 and is
Chairman of the remuneration committee. After
qualifying as a solicitor he entered industry as a
company secretary. He became Chief Executive of a
West Midlands engineering group. During the
engineering recession of the 1980's he steered that
group into what is now St. Modwen Properties, of
which he is Chairman.
The Company is committed to high standards of
corporate governance in keeping with its size. 
09 Report on corporate governance
Robinson plc    Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
12
robinson09-pages.qxd:robinson09-pages.qxd  31/03/2010  08:00  Page 10 Robinson plc    Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Shareholders 
The Company maintains close contact with its
brokers, who keep the Board informed of the views of
the investment community. The Company values the
views of its shareholders and recognises their interest
in the Group's strategy and performance. The Annual
General Meeting is used to communicate with private
investors and they are encouraged to participate. The
Directors will be available at the Annual General
Meeting to answer questions.
Internal control 
The Board recognises its responsibility for maintaining
systems of internal control and reviewing their
effectiveness. The Board maintains procedures for
identifying significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board has reviewed the operation and
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
financial control for the financial year up to the
date of approval of the financial statements. The
system of internal financial control is designed to
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The principal elements of the Group's systems of
internal financial control include:
> A management structure and written procedures
that clearly define the levels of authority,
responsibility and accountability;
> well established business planning, budgeting and
monthly reporting functions with timely reviews at
the appropriate levels of the organisation;
> a comprehensive system for investment appraisal
and review; and
> an Audit Committee that regularly reviews the
relationship with and matters arising from the
external auditors including the level of non-audit
work that is performed by them.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard
Clothier and includes Anthony Glossop and Adam
Formela. This committee meets at least once per year
and reviews the Board's structure, size and
composition. It is also responsible for succession
planning for directors and other senior executives.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Clothier
and includes Anthony Glossop and Adam Formela.
This committee meets at least twice per year and
reviews the interim and preliminary announcement of
final results and the annual financial statements prior
to their publication. It is also responsible for the
appointment or dismissal of the external auditors and
for agreeing their fees. It keeps under review the
scope and methodology of the audit and its cost
effectiveness together with the independence and
objectivity of the auditors. It meets with the auditors at
least twice per year to agree the audit plan and review
the results of the audit.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Anthony
Glossop and includes Richard Clothier and Adam
Formela. On behalf of the Board the Committee
reviews and approves the remuneration and service
contracts (including benefits) of the executive
directors and other senior staff. The Committee aims
to provide executive remuneration packages designed
to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre
necessary to achieve the Board's strategic and
operational objectives and to reward them for
enhancing shareholder value. The remuneration
packages for the executive directors and other senior
staff include a basic salary and benefits, an annual
performance related pay scheme and a long term
incentive plan in the form of a share option scheme.
10 Report on corporate governance
34
robinson09-pages.qxd:robinson09-pages.qxd  31/03/2010  08:00  Page 11