 Revenue
Group revenue increased by 13% on the previous year
of which almost half was the result of volume
increases and the remainder a reflection of price
increases to cover raw material costs. Resin prices
have increased to all-time highs but these have
largely been passed on to our customers. Central
European revenues increased by 16%, however,
margins suffered from the impact of higher input
prices for a period before these were passed on to our
customers.
Profitability
Profit before tax* was  1.7m (2009:  1.0m). This result
was influenced mainly by the following factors:
> gross margin* improved from 19% to 20% of
revenues. This is attributable to better customer mix
and lower direct costs (notably labour and
electricity) offset by increasing raw material prices;
> overhead costs remained flat as revenues
recovered; and
> notional finance income in respect of the pension
fund increased by  0.1m.
*Continuing operations
Cash & finances
Capital expenditure on new plant and machinery of
 0.5m (2009:  0.8m) was low in relation to the
depreciation charge of  1.4m (2009:  1.5m). Year-end
working capital levels were significantly higher than a
year earlier as a result of higher sales in the run-up to
Christmas, increased use of early payment discounts
from suppliers and the early timing of the year end.
Despite the  2.1m increase in working capital, net
borrowings increased by only  0.5m to  3.7m and
remain well within our agreed facilities.
Dividends
The Board proposes an unchanged final dividend
of 1.75p per share to be paid on 6 June 2011 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business
on 20 May 2011. This brings the total dividend
declared in respect of 2010 to 3.25p per share - an
increase of 18% over the previous year and a recovery
to the 2008 level.
Outlook
So far this year market conditions have remained
stable for most of our customers. We remain
conscious of the possible effects of economic trends
and Government policy on our costs and consumer
demand, but due to the Group's exposure to the
usually resilient food, drink and toiletry sectors
we do not expect revenues to be greatly affected.
Our progress so far in 2011 is in line with the
Board's expectations.
Richard Clothier
Chairman
24 March 2011
Following a strong recovery in 2009, it is pleasing to report further progress in
2010 with profits higher than Robinson has achieved for many years. The operating
results exclude our North American paperboard business which was closed in
December 2010 following losses driven largely by the relative strength of the
Canadian dollar and weak US demand. The net loss from trading and closure of this
business is included as a separate line at the foot of the Group Income Statement.
08 Chairman's report
Robinson plc    Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
robinson10-pages-artwork.qxd:robinson09-pages.qxd  06/04/2011  15:23  Page 9 The Board
The Company supports the concept of an effective
board leading and controlling the Group. The Board is
responsible for approving Group policy and strategy
and the Directors are free to seek any further
information they consider necessary. All Directors
have access to independent professional advice at the
Group's expense.
The Board has a written statement of its
responsibilities and there are written terms of
reference for the Nomination, Remuneration and
Audit committees. The Chairman and Non-executive
Director, whose time commitment to the Company is
commensurate with their remuneration, hold other
positions as set out in the biographies below.
The Board meets regularly on dates agreed each year
for the calendar year ahead. This is typically seven
times per year although additional meetings are
called as and when deemed necessary.
The Board consists of a Non-executive Chairman, one
other Non-executive Director, a Chief Executive and a
Finance Director . This provides a broad background of
experience and a balance whereby the Board's
decision making cannot be dominated by an individual.
The Chairman of the Board is Richard Clothier and the
Group's business is run by the Chief Executive (Adam
Formela) and Guy Robinson, the Finance Director . The
biographies of the Directors, who we consider to be
the key managers of the business, are set out below:
Richard Clothier (1)
Non-executive Chairman
After a period with the Milk Marketing Board, Richard
joined the Dalgety group in 1977. In 1988 he was
appointed Chief Executive of PIC which was then a
subsidiary of the group. In 1992 he was appointed to
the main board of Dalgety Plc and took over as Group
Chief Executive in 1993. In 1998 he joined PGI Group
Plc as Chief Executive. He also served as non-
executive director of Granada Plc until 2004 and is
currently Chairman of Aqua Bounty Technologies Plc,
Spearhead International Ltd and Sales Activation
Solutions Ltd. Richard joined the Robinson Board in
May 2004.
Adam Formela (2)
Chief Executive
Adam started his career with Black & Decker, rising
to the rank of European Director of Sales & Marketing
before moving into general management with
Electrolux and then Kenwood Appliances. He then
moved to GRP Ltd, a Singapore listed company as
Group Chief Executive, before returning to Europe to
work with Acco Brands Corporation as vice president
of operations, business development and sales &
marketing before becoming President of the
Document Communication division. Adam joined the
Board in February 2007.
Guy Robinson (3)
Finance Director
Guy has an honours degree in mechanical engineering
from Nottingham University and qualified as a
Chartered Accountant in 1981 at Coopers & Lybrand,
working for them until he joined Robinson as
Management Information Systems manager in
1985. He has held the positions of Group Finance
Controller and Packaging Division Financial Director
and was appointed Group Finance Director in 1995.
He has been responsible for working with the Board
on a number of business acquisitions and disposals
and is responsible for the Group's significant
property portfolio.
Anthony Glossop (4)
Non-executive Director
Anthony was appointed a director in 1995 and is
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. After
qualifying as a solicitor he entered industry as a
company secretary. He became Chief Executive of a
West Midlands engineering group. During the
engineering recession of the 1980's he steered that
group into what is now St. Modwen Properties, of
which he was Chief Executive and then Chairman.
The Company is committed to high standards of
corporate governance in keeping with its size. 
09 Report on corporate governance 10
Robinson plc    Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
12
robinson10-pages-artwork.qxd:robinson09-pages.qxd  06/04/2011  15:23  Page 10 Robinson plc    Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
sing
keting
en
as
pe to
ident
&
d the
eering
rand,
e
ctor
95.
oard
sals
r
of a
hat
f
n.
Shareholders 
The Company maintains close contact with its
brokers, who keep the Board informed of the views of
the investor community. The Company values the
views of its shareholders and recognises their interest
in the Group's strategy and performance. The Annual
General Meeting is used to communicate with private
investors and they are encouraged to participate. The
Directors will be available at the Annual General
Meeting to answer questions.
Internal control 
The Board recognises its responsibility for maintaining
systems of internal control and reviewing their
effectiveness. The Board maintains procedures for
identifying significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board has reviewed the operation and
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
financial control for the financial year up to the date
of approval of the financial statements. The system
of internal financial control is designed to provide
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The principal elements of the Group's systems of
internal financial control include:
> a management structure and written procedures
that clearly define the levels of authority,
responsibility and accountability;
> well established business planning, budgeting and
monthly reporting functions with timely reviews at
the appropriate levels of the organisation;
> a comprehensive system for investment appraisal
and review; and
> an Audit Committee that regularly reviews the
relationship with and matters arising from the
external auditors including the level of non-audit
work that is performed by them.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard
Clothier and includes Anthony Glossop and Adam
Formela. This committee meets at least once per year
and reviews the Board's structure, size and
composition. It is also responsible for succession
planning for directors and other senior executives.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Clothier
and includes Anthony Glossop and Adam Formela.
This committee meets at least twice per year and
reviews the interim and preliminary announcement of
final results and the annual financial statements prior
to their publication. It is also responsible for the
appointment or dismissal of the external auditors and
for agreeing their fees. It keeps under review the
scope and methodology of the audit and its cost
effectiveness together with the independence and
objectivity of the auditors. It meets with the auditors at
least twice per year to agree the audit plan and review
the results of the audit.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Anthony
Glossop and includes Richard Clothier and Adam
Formela. On behalf of the Board the Committee
reviews and approves the remuneration and service
contracts (including benefits) of the executive
directors and other senior staff. The Committee aims
to provide executive remuneration packages designed
to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre
necessary to achieve the Board's strategic and
operational objectives and to reward them for
enhancing shareholder value. The remuneration
packages for the executive directors and other senior
staff include a basic salary and benefits, an annual
performance related pay scheme and a long term
incentive plan in the form of a share option scheme.
10 Report on corporate governance
34
robinson10-pages-artwork.qxd:robinson09-pages.qxd  06/04/2011  15:23  Page 11