 pg 17
Corporate Governance Statement for the year ended 31 December 2005
The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate
governance are practiced throughout the Group as a fundamental
part of discharging its responsibility to protect and enhance
shareholder value and long-term financial performance.  Although
not a requirement for AIM listed companies, throughout the year
the Group has been in full compliance with Section 1 of the
Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing
Authority ('The Code') except for the following points below:
The Code recommends that the Audit Committee consists
exclusively of Non-Executive Directors; for part of the year 
Mr Brown served on the Committee.  With effect from 
30 November 2005 the Audit Committee consists exclusively 
of Non-Executive Directors
The Code recommends regular evaluation of the Board's
performance.  Such action was not considered appropriate 
or cost effective during 2005 due to Board changes.
The statement below describes how the principles, identified by
the Code, are applied by the Group.
Directors
The Board consists of Mr Brown, Chairman, two Non-Executive
Directors, Mr Mowinckel and Mr Ridings, and Mr Johnson and 
Mr Slater, Executive Directors. Mr Ridings is considered by the
Board to be independent of management and free of any
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 
of his independent judgement. 
Biographies of the Board members, appearing on page 14 of 
the Directors' report, indicate the levels and range of business
experience which are essential to manage effectively a business 
of the size and complexity of that operated by the Group.
The Board meets at least ten times each year and more frequently
when business needs require. The Board has a schedule of
matters reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board
approval on these matters is communicated widely throughout the
senior management of the Group. These include matters such as
material capital commitments, commencing or settling major
litigation, operating budgets, significant financing, business
acquisitions and disposals, appointments to the boards of
subsidiary undertakings, approval of business strategy, code of
ethics and business practice, remuneration of senior management
and corporate activities relating to all listing matters.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice if necessary and at the Company's expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the
Company Secretary. The secretary is charged by the Board with
ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to
discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all
relevant information. In the case of Board meetings this consists of
supporting documentation as appropriate including regular
business progress reports and discussion documents regarding
specific matters.
Any Director appointed subsequent to an Annual General Meeting
in any year is required, under the provisions of the Company's
articles of association, to retire and seek election by shareholders
at the next Annual General Meeting. The articles also require that
up to one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and
seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors
required to retire will be those in office longest since their 
previous re-election unless a Director wishes to retire and does 
not seek re-election.  
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement of the
Company's remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration
Report below. The members of the Remuneration Committee and
principal terms of reference of the Committee appear on page 19. 
Executive Directors abstain from any discussion or voting at full
Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations
which have a direct bearing on their own remuneration package.
The details of each Executive Director's individual financial 
package are set by the Committee in line with the policy adopted
by the Board.
Communication with shareholders
The Company places a great deal of importance on
communication with its shareholders. The Annual Report and
Financial Statements are available to all shareholders and to 
other parties who have an interest in the Group's performance.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place via 
the website www.rts-group.com.
The Directors seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives
between the Company and its institutional shareholders through
regular meetings and presentations.  All shareholders have the
opportunity to put questions at the Company's Annual General
Meeting and any other Company meetings. Corporate Governance Statement
Audit and internal control
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in
connection with the financial statements are explained on page 16
and the Directors' statement on going concern appears on page 16. 
Overall strategy on risk and control: The Board considers risk
management and internal control on a regular basis. A Risk
Management Committee, comprising two Non-Executive Directors
and an Executive Director has been established. 
Its activities have included a review of the Group's risk framework
and its monitoring functions and an assessment of major risks
together with their related risk management responses. The Risk
Management strategy is established and monitored by the Board
with the objective of setting clear guidelines in relation to the levels
of retained risk acceptable to the Group. Procedures for the Group
assessment of significant business risks are subject to regular
review, monitoring and improvement.
Due to the open environment in which the Company carries out its
daily activities, it is anticipated that any employee would feel free to
bring major matters of concern to the attention of the appropriate
Officers of the Company.
The Directors are responsible for the Company's system of internal
financial control which is designed to provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.  The
Directors have in place internal financial controls as follows:
Financial reporting: A detailed formal budgeting process for all
Group businesses culminates in an annual budget which is
approved by the Board. Results for the Company and for its
constituent businesses are reported monthly against the budget to
the Board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared each
quarter.
Performance review: The business units are subject to periodic
in depth review by Group Management during the year. Actual
results are compared with budget, prior year and rolling financial
targets, with overall performance judged on the achievement of a
series of key performance indicators.
Corporate plan: Executive management submit an annual
business plan to the Board for approval. The plan is a summation
of each business unit's quantified assessment of its planned
trading performance in respect of the forthcoming financial year,
taking into account the economic environment and the sensitivities
underlying the projections.
Internal financial controls assurance: The Directors have
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal financial controls.
Senior executives have prepared formal Board reports on the
operation of those elements of the system for which they are
responsible. Due to the size of the Group it is not currently
considered necessary to operate a formal internal audit function.
The Audit Committee and Board will review this requirement
annually as a minimum.
Capital investment: There are clearly defined guidelines for
capital expenditure and the requirement for Board approval. 
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review
procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements
where businesses are being acquired. Post investment appraisals
are performed for major investments.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee which is comprised of Mr Ridings, Chairman
of the Committee and Mr Mowinckel, both Non-Executive
Directors, meets at least twice a year. Its objective is to give formal
support to the Board in fulfiling its obligations to shareholders to
maintain standards of management and financial control and
reporting throughout the Group that are consistent with regulatory
requirements and current best practice. For details of the relevant
financial experience of the members of the Committee, see page 14.
The external auditors attend meetings of the Audit Committee and
have direct access to the Chairman of that Committee.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of
both the internal financial procedures and the external audit under
review. The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is
also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the
level of non-audit fees. The analysis between audit and non-audit
fees for the period under review appears at Note 5 to the financial
statements.  The non-audit fees were paid in respect of tax advice,
financial due diligence reviews, and reports required for shareholder
documents and are not considered by the Committee to affect
independence or objectivity.
pg 18