 As an AIM company, Romag Holdings plc is not obliged to comply with the 2003 Combined Code prepared by the
Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel. However, the directors are committed to high
standards of corporate governance and aim to comply with the provisions of the Code so far as they are considered
appropriate to the company.
The directors consider that, with the exception of the items noted below, the company has, throughout the year, been in
compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The remuneration committee includes the chairman as well as two independent non-executive directors. The roles of chairman
and chief executive are clearly segregated and different, and have been established as such for many years, but the separate
roles are not specifically defined in writing. The chairman, who has been chairman since the foundation of the business more
than twenty years ago, is not considered to be independent and as such his membership of the audit committee does not
comply with the Code. The non-executive directors have not been appointed for specific periods, but their contracts can
be terminated with only three months notice. A nomination committee has not been established as the board is small.
In view of the size and structure of the group, the board does not believe that these exceptions had any detrimental effect
on the control environment.
The workings of the board and its committees
The board
The board comprises the chairman, chief executive, one other executive director and two independent, non-executive
directors. The non-executive directors demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the success of the group.
The board meets approximately six times per year, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and
monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition possibilities and reporting to shareholders. The non-executive directors
have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.
To enable the board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are
distributed by the company secretary to all directors in advance of board meetings. The chairman ensures that the
directors are able to take independent professional advice as required, at the company's expense.
The board undertook a review of its own performance during the year and that of its committees and individual directors.
This involved an assessment by formal discussion, chaired by the senior independent non-executive director, which
revealed significant progress in the non-executive directors' understanding of the group's markets and their communication
with the senior group executives who are not members of the company's main board, areas identified for improvement
during previous appraisals. No new areas for improvement were identified.
The standing committees established by the board are the remuneration committee and audit committee, each of which
operates within defined terms of reference. These terms of reference will be available for inspection by shareholders at the
annual general meeting.
The nominations process prior to board appointments will take into account the views of existing board members and
advisers. Any director appointed to the board since the last annual general meeting is required to seek re-election at the
subsequent annual general meeting. All directors are subject to re-election at least once every three years.
During the year, the board met nine times. All the directors were present at six meetings. The two non-executive
directors were not present at two meetings and David Gray was not present at a third meeting. All the meetings at
which some directors were not present dealt only with formal approvals for business which had been discussed with 
them at previous meetings.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is chaired by the group chairman and its other members are the two non-executive directors.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the board, within agreed terms of reference, on the company's framework
of executive remuneration and its level. The committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits 
for each of the executive directors, except the chairman, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights
and compensation payments. The chairman's remuneration is determined by a sub-committee comprising only the two
non-executive directors.
Further details of the company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the
directors' remuneration report.
During the year, the remuneration committee met twice. All its members were present at both meetings.
Corporate Governance
Romag Holdings plc
4
74138 PRE  2/1/08  15:38  Page 4 Audit committee
The audit committee comprises the chairman and the two non-executive directors. Part of each meeting is also attended,
by invitation, by the chief executive and the finance director. The committee is chaired by David Gray and meets at least
twice annually. The committee provides a forum for reporting by the group's external auditors.
The audit committee reviews a wide range of matters, including the half year and annual financial statements before
their submission to the board, and monitors the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information
reported to the shareholders. The audit committee advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on
their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the
auditors. The audit committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the
auditors by approving in advance any work undertaken for non-audit work. The chairman of the audit committee reports
the outcome of audit committee meetings to the board and the board receives minutes of the meetings.
During the year, the audit committee met three times. All its members were present at every meeting.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given high priority. The chairman's statement includes a review of the business
and developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the company's
preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year. Information relating to the group, including
information required to be disclosed under Rule 26 of the AIM rules, is also available on the group's website,
www.romag.co.uk.
The non-executive directors meet annually with the company's stockbroker and nominated adviser to ensure that they
have a comprehensive understanding of the views of major shareholders. The board uses both the annual report and
financial statements and the annual general meeting to communicate directly with private and institutional investors and
welcomes their participation. The chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees
are available at annual general meetings to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the annual general
meeting on 7 February 2008 can be found in the notice on pages 36 to 38.
Internal control
The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the group's strategic
objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for
decision by the board. Authority to operate subsidiary companies is delegated to local management within limits set
by the board. The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the group requires the approval of
the board.
The board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the group and for determining the appropriate
course of action to manage those risks. Such risks and actions are reviewed at board meetings.
Each year the board approves the annual budget. Key risk areas are identified, reviewed and monitored. Performance is
monitored against budget, relevant action is taken throughout the year and updated forecasts prepared as appropriate.
Reports reviewed by the board include reports on operational as well as financial issues.
Capital and development expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure
beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the board for approval. Reviews are carried out
after the purchase is complete. Major overruns are investigated.
Due diligence work will be carried out if a business is to be acquired.
The results of the monitoring of controls and the risk management process are reported to and discussed by the board.
The board was able to conclude with reasonable assurance that appropriate internal controls had been in operation during
the year. The board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and concluded that this is not necessary in view of
the size and structure of the group.
annual report 2007
5
74138 PRE  2/1/08  15:38  Page 5