  
 
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
The company is pleased to present its first report under the principles and provisions of the new Combined Code 
on corporate governance. The board is aware that as a listed company it should strive to comply with The 
Combined Code as incorporated in the UK Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. The Combined 
Code on corporate governance requires the company to make a two part disclosure statement, firstly on how the 
principles of the code are applied and secondly confirmation of compliance or explanation of any reason for 
deviation from the code. 
  
Application of the principles of The Combined Code 
 
There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which consists of five directors. During the year under 
review this comprises the chairman and managing director (A C C Ma), the deputy managing director (T 
Wilkinson) one non-executive director (M J Simon) and two further executive directors (M A B Binney and R 
Lee Yen Kee). Details of the experience and qualifications of the directors are contained within the annual 
report. 
  
Although there is no separate chairman and managing director the division of responsibility between those two 
roles is dealt with by the deputy managing director, who is permanently based in the UK, having responsibility 
for the managing director role on a day to day basis. 
 
The non-executive director, Mr M J Simon, is considered to be independent as there are no circumstances or 
relationships as described by Code provision A.3.1 which apply to his appointment.  
 
The chairman and managing director, Mr A C C Ma, is also a director of The Grande Holdings Ltd which has a 
controlling interest in Ross Group due to its shareholding directly and by nominees and subsidiary companies. 
Mr Ma has other management commitments to companies within The Grande Group.  
  
The board is responsible for decisions concerning strategic and financial planning and matters involving the 
overall direction of the company. Management will seek board approval of the annual budget and rolling 
business plan. Regular re-forecasts are presented as updates to the budget throughout the year to account for 
variances and provide forward vision. The operational business decisions are taken by local management with 
the agreement of the deputy managing director who acts as the managing director of the trading subsidiaries. 
 
The board is of the opinion that taking into account the number of members on the board a separate nomination 
committee is currently not required. This function is covered by the full board. 
 
As mentioned above the board has one non-executive director who is a member of the audit and remuneration 
committees. As an ongoing part of the reorganisation process the group is committed to re-examine the 
constitution of the board and to recruit at the earliest opportunity non-executive directors as necessary. The 
group's definition of a non-executive director is one who considers the interest of all the shareholders and this is 
demonstrated during the board meetings. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 6  
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 
Except for the non-executive director who is on a one-year appointment at a fixed fee, all of the other directors 
are subject to periodic re-election and the full board considers all appointments. A director will require re-
election within a maximum period of three years. 
 
Biographies of the board are included in the financial statements. These indicate a wealth of experience, which is 
essential in effectively managing the activities of the group. In addition to this the board members, where 
appropriate, attend seminars and courses of their respective professional organisations. 
  
The board meets every two to three months and there is a full board meeting twice a year. With the exception of 
A C C Ma, R Lee Yen Kee and MA B Binney, who attend only the full board meetings (this is as a result of the 
directors being based overseas) all of the other directors attend each of these meetings. The overseas based 
directors participate in board meetings by conference call when not present in the UK.  
 
An agenda is prepared prior to each meeting and this would normally cover areas of the group's performance and 
finances. All current operating, financial and strategic information is submitted to the board in advance of the 
meetings together with representations from the divisional managers. The chairman ensures that all members of 
the board are properly briefed on issues arising at the meetings through the prepared agendas, post meeting 
circulars and opportunities for questions during the meetings. Additional information can be obtained at any time 
from the other executive directors.  
 
The Board has now established procedures in respect of access to the company secretary and the directors have 
access to consult the company secretary when required.  
 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions to the board during the company's annual general 
meeting and the board communicates with the shareholders via the notices and other papers relating to the 
annual general meeting. The company also welcomes and responds to written communication from its 
shareholders. The company website allows shareholders to contact the directors by email. 
 
The board has carried out a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its performance and of its committees and 
individual directors. This evaluation covers contribution, commitment and the manner in which board related 
duties have been completed. The chairman has discussed the review with individual directors where necessary to 
ensure the board operates as an effective unit. The performance review was conducted using recognised 
evaluation processes. The independent non-executive director has conducted a performance review on the 
chairman which included the consideration of the views expressed by the executive directors.   
 
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code 
 
The group has complied with the Combined Code apart from provision A.3.2 which requires that the board 
should include at least two independent non-executive directors. The group at present has only one non-
executive director, who is a Chartered Accountant and a small shareholder of the group. 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7   
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 
Non-executive directors 
 
The group continues to actively seek to appoint additional non-executive directors of the correct experience and 
calibre.  Furthermore whilst the future strategy of the group continues to develop, the board feels that it is 
essential that any additional non-executive director is brought on board with the correct skill-sets to enhance the 
overall abilities of the board. The improvement in the results and financial standing of the group should assist 
with appointing additional non-executive directors and thus strengthening the board. 
 
Internal audit and control  
 
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the financial statements are set 
out on page 12 to the financial statements. The directors have overall responsibility of the effectiveness of the 
group's whole system of internal control, including financial and other controls, which are designed to provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures that the 
directors have established to provide effective internal financial control are as follows:  
 
Financial reporting  
 
There is a comprehensive system for reporting performance. During the course of the year, a one year rolling 
budget is prepared for each company within the group and a consolidated budget is prepared for the whole 
group. The Board then formally approves the budgets. The monthly results are then reported to the Board for 
their consideration and forecasts are revised accordingly.  
 
Quality and integrity of personnel  
 
The integrity of the group is maintained through the appointment of experienced and professional staff and the 
application of appropriate policies and procedures. 
  
Capital investment 
  
The group has set procedures for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, appraisals and review of the 
required expenditure, approvals at the right levels of authority and the commissioning of independent 
professional advice where appropriate. 
 
Professional advice 
  
Professional advice is usually sought on contentious and disclosure issues, this being as a result of discussions 
during the board meetings. During the year the chairman can seek independent professional advice in relation to 
matters affecting the group. 
 
The group has an ongoing system for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 
group which has been in place for the whole of the year under review up to the date of approval of the annual 
report and accounts and which is regularly reviewed by the board to ensure it continues to accord with the 
Turnbull Guidance. The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls 
during the year from information provided by the management and the group's external auditors. It must be 
recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance, and in that context, the 
review revealed nothing which, in the opinion of the directors, indicates that the system was inappropriate or 
unsatisfactory.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 
   
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 
The group has no formal internal audit function and the board has determined that there is no need for one. The 
board considers that internal audit is satisfactorily dealt with in other ways and the situation is regularly 
reviewed. 
 
Going concern 
  
The directors confirm that after making the appropriate enquires, they are of the opinion that the group as a 
whole has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore have 
prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.  
  
External audit and audit committee  
 
The audit committee comprises the non-executive director and an executive director. Although this does not 
meet the provision of code C.3.1, the spirit of the provision is in force and as stated above the board is seeking to 
recruit additional non-executive directors. 
 
The audit committee meets periodically to review the adequacy of the group's internal control systems, 
accounting policies, corporate governance policies and compliance with applicable accounting standards and to 
consider the appointment of the external auditors and to review their fees. Everett & Son is invited to attend 
these meetings. The audit committee is authorised by the board to investigate any activity within its terms of 
reference and obtain external professional advice as is necessary.  
 
By order of the Board  
 
 
 
 
 
A C C Ma  
Chairman  
 
6 June 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 9  