 RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
18 | P a g e 
 
Governance 
 
Corporate governance statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the code)  
As a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange, RTC 
Group plc is not required to comply with the code.  This report therefore does not describe how the 
Group has complied with the code and does not explain any departures from it.  However, the Group 
has considered the main principles of the code as they relate to an effective Board, being leadership, 
effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders and taken steps to 
comply.  
 
The Group also supports the Quoted Companies Alliance  Corporate Governance Code for Small and 
Mid-Size Companies 2013' (the guide) which is seen to set the standard that AIM companies should 
seek to adhere to. As the Group grows it intends, as far as practical to increasingly observe the 
principles in the guide. A brief outline of the Board and its committees, together with the Group's 
systems of internal financial control is set out below. 
 
The Board  
The Board comprises the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and 
one non-executive Director.  Biographies of the directors appear on page 19. 
 
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. The Board meets regularly 
and is responsible for formulating the Group's corporate strategy, monitoring financial performance, 
acquisitions, approval of major capital expenditure, treasury and risk management policies.  
 
Board papers are sent out to all directors in advance of each Board meeting including management 
accounts and accompanying reports from the executive directors. Annual budgets are approved by 
the full Board. Operational control is delegated by the Board to the executive directors. All directors 
have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and can take independent advice, if necessary, 
at the Company's expense. 
  
 The Board meets formally no less than six times per year.  
The Group believes that it has at its disposal, in its non-executive director, J T White, its Chairman 
with his banking background and experience and its other executive directors, an appropriate range 
of skills and experience to ensure the interests of all stakeholders in the Group are fully 
accommodated. 
 
Board Committees 
The Board has established a remuneration committee and an audit committee.  
 
The audit committee comprises W J C Douie and A M Pendlebury, and is chaired by W J C Douie.  The 
committee meets as necessary to monitor the Group's internal control systems and major accounting 
and audit related issues. 
 
The remuneration committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and 
other benefits for executive directors, including performance-related bonus schemes.  The 
committee comprises W J C Douie and J T White.  It is chaired by W J C Douie.  However, W J C Douie 
is not involved in determining his own remuneration. 
  RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
19 | P a g e 
 
Governance 
 
Corporate governance statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
William Douie, Group Chairman  
After two years in export sales, commencing in 1962, with British Oxygen, he moved into banking 
with Midland Bank and qualified as an associate of the Institute of Bankers.  In 1969 he moved into 
Merchant Banking, joining Keyser Ullmann Limited and spent six years in Investment Management 
before joining the Bank Board in 1975.  In 1981, following the merger of Keyser Ullmann and 
Charterhouse Japhet, he left to buy out, and become Chairman of, the Group's Instalment Credit 
subsidiary, Broadcastle Plc, and to become Chairman of British Benzol Limited, a fully listed company 
in the solid fuel industry.  Following the acquisition by Broadcastle of Harton Securities Limited, he 
oversaw the merger of Broadcastle Plc and ATA Selection Plc, a USM listed recruitment company, 
before becoming Chairman of the Group in 1990. He joined with Clive Chapman in 1992 to purchase 
the ailing ATA Recruitment business from the group, and remains Executive Chairman. 
 
Andy Pendlebury, Group Chief Executive Officer 
Andy held a number of senior management positions during his long career with British Aerospace 
Plc. In 1992 he joined the Board of Wynnwith Engineering and was appointed Managing Director in 
1995 establishing the business as one of the United Kingdom's fastest growing recruitment 
businesses. In 2002 Andy joined GKN Plc as interim Managing Director of the company's in-house 
recruitment business Engage and guided it through the Board's divestment strategy. From 2004 to 
2007, as Chief Executive, he engineered a trading turnaround and subsequent sale to the Morson 
Group of White & Nunn Holdings. He joined the board of RTC Group Plc as a non-executive in July 
2007, becoming Group Chief Executive in October 2007. 
 
Sarah Dye, Group Finance Director 
Sarah is a qualified chartered accountant with significant experience in strategic planning, 
commercial and operational finance. Her career has seen her work in both the public and private 
sectors in the UK and overseas. Sarah qualified with BDO in 1991 before moving to The Post Office 
Plc and then The Boots Company Plc gaining experience in risk management, internal audit and 
commercial finance. In 1998, Sarah joined Allied Domecq plc, a global spirits and wine company, 
becoming Finance and Planning Manager for Europe. In 2004 Sarah joined Nottingham Trent 
University where she held a number of senior finance positions. Sarah has spent a total of five years 
in New Zealand with the Office of the Auditor-General, working with central and local government 
entities and the tertiary sector. In March 2011 Sarah joined Staffline Group Plc as Group Financial 
Controller. Sarah was appointed as Group Finance Director of RTC Group Plc in February 2013. 
 
John White, Non-Executive Director 
John trained as a Mechanical Design Engineer at EMI Ltd then went into Contract Engineering being 
engaged by various engineering companies to work on specific projects.  In 1975 he became a 
Recruitment Contracts Manager in the sales and placement of Contract Engineers.  In 1977 John 
joined Shorterm Engineers Ltd (SEL) as a Director and became a junior equity partner.  With backing 
from Midland Montague Ventures Ltd, he led a Management Buyout taking individual overall control.  
Shorterm Group Ltd (SGL) continued its expansion programme organically and by acquisition whilst 
building up a management structure to become one of the largest technical employment agencies in 
the South of England.  In 1999 SGL was sold to Venture Capital Company 3i, who supported a new 
Management Buy-in.  He joined the board of RTC Group Plc as a non-executive in May 2012.  RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
20 | P a g e 
 
Governance 
 
Corporate governance statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
Relations with shareholders 
The Board values the views of its shareholders. The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate 
with all investors and they are encouraged to participate. The Directors are available to answer 
questions. Separate resolutions are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper 
consideration and there is a formal resolution to approve the Annual Report. 
 
Internal control 
Internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and the risks to 
which it is exposed, and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.  The key procedures which the directors have established with a view 
to providing effective internal financial control are as follows: - 
 
  Management structure 
 The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for decisions by the Board. 
  Quality and integrity of personnel 
 The integrity and competence of personnel are ensured through high recruitment standards and 
subsequent training courses.  High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control 
environment. 
  Identification of business risks 
 The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for 
determining the appropriate courses of action to manage those risks. The Boards of our Group 
businesses also actively identify risks, for example, through risk workshops, and ensure mitigating 
controls are in place. 
  Budgetary process 
 Each year the Board approves the annual budget.  Key risk areas are identified.  Performance is 
monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting to the 
Board of variances from the budget and preparation of updated forecasts for the year together 
with information on the key risk areas. 
  Authorisation procedures 
 Capital and revenue expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels.  For 
expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals are submitted to and approved by 
the Board.  Once authorised, expenditure is reviewed and monitored by the Board. 
An annual programme of specialist audit reviews that is focused on key risk areas is approved by the 
audit committee. The audit committee ensures that these reviews are carried out by experts who are 
independent of the Group's external auditors. 
 
 