 58
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 
Form 20-F Information 2004
Audit Committee' s Report
The Audit Committee is also charged 
with promptly bringing to the attention 
of the Board:
> Any significant concerns of the external
auditor about the conduct, results or
overall outcome of the annual audit 
of the Company.
> Any significant concerns of the Chief
Internal Auditor about the conduct,
results or outcome of internal audits.
> Any matters which may significantly
affect or impair the independence 
of the external auditor.
> Any significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in the design or operation
of the Company' s internal control over
financial reporting.
> Any significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in the design or operation
of the Company' s other internal controls
and any significant breaches of those
internal controls.
> Any serious issues of non-compliance.
The Audit Committee also oversees the
establishment, implementation and
maintenance of the Code of Conduct. 
It establishes procedures for the receipt 
and handling of complaints concerning
accounting or audit matters. It also appoints
and agrees the compensation for the
external auditor subject, in each case, 
to the approval of the Company' s
shareholders at a general meeting and, 
if necessary, recommends to the Board 
that a resolution be proposed at a general
meeting of the Company authorising the
removal of the external auditor. Additionally,
the Audit Committee reviews and approves
the appointment and any dismissal of the
Chief Internal Auditor.
The Audit Committee maintains policies 
and procedures for the pre-approval of all
audit services and permitted non-audit
services undertaken by the external auditor.
The principal purpose of these policies 
and procedures is to ensure that the
independence of the external auditor is 
not impaired. In January 2004, the Audit
Committee renewed its pre-approval
policies and procedures. This covered 
three categories of work - audit services,
audit-related services and tax services. 
The policies define the type of work which
falls within each of these categories, as 
well as those non-audit services which 
the external auditor is prohibited from
performing under the rules of the US SEC.
The pre-approval procedures permit certain
audit, audit-related and tax services to be
performed by the external auditor during 
the year, subject to fee limits agreed with 
the Audit Committee in advance. The Group
Financial Controller and the Director of
Group T ax monitor the status of all services
being provided by the external auditor. 
The procedures also deal with the placing 
of non-audit work out for tender, where
appropriate. Authority to approve work 
in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is
delegated to the Chairman of the Audit
Committee in the first instance. Regular
reports to the full Audit Committee are also
provided for and, in practice, a standing
agenda item at Audit Committee meetings
covers the operation of the pre-approval
procedures.
The full remit of the Audit Committee is
available on the Company' s website:
astrazeneca.com.
The Audit Committee met six times in 2004.
Each meeting was attended by all of its
members except that Mr Wallenberg was
unable to attend part of the December
meeting due to a prior engagement. At the
invitation of the Audit Committee, the
Chairman of the Board, a Non-Executive
Director, attended three of its meetings in
2004. The Audit Committee is currently
scheduled to meet seven times in 2005.
The minutes of Audit Committee meetings
are circulated to all Board members.
During the year, in line with its normal
practice, the Audit Committee also held 
a number of private meetings, without
management present, with both the
Company' s Chief Internal Auditor and the
lead partner from the Company' s external
audit firm. The purpose of these meetings
was to facilitate free and open discussions
between the Audit Committee members
and the Chief Internal Auditor and the
external lead audit partner separately from
the main sessions of the Audit Committee,
which were attended by the Chief Financial
Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
During 2004, the business considered 
and discussed by the Audit Committee
included:
> The financial disclosures contained 
in the Company' s annual and quarterly
reports to shareholders and other
interested parties.
> Various accounting matters, including
the Company' s critical accounting
policies, raised by management and 
the external auditor in the context of the
financial disclosures. Specific examples
of areas reviewed by the Audit
Committee included the reporting of the
effect of wholesaler stock movements in
The members of the Audit Committee 
are John Buchanan (Chairman of the
Committee), Jane Henney, Dame Bridget
Ogilvie, Marcus Wallenberg and Michele
Hooper. Dr Buchanan succeeded Karl von
der Heyden as Chairman of the Audit
Committee following Mr von der Heyden' s
retirement from the Board in April 2004. 
Ms Hooper was appointed as a member 
of the Audit Committee with effect from 
the end of the AGM in April 2004. They 
are all Non-Executive Directors. With the
exception of Mr Wallenberg for the reasons
explained in the Directors' Report, the
Board considers them all to be independent
under the UK Combined Code. Marcus
Wallenberg, although not independent
under the UK Combined Code, is
independent under the criteria of the
NYSE's corporate governance listing
standards concerning the composition 
of audit committees.
The Board remains satisfied that various
members of the Audit Committee have
recent and relevant financial experience. 
At its meeting in December 2004, the 
Board determined that Dr Buchanan and
Ms Hooper are audit committee financial
experts for the purposes of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The core remit of the Audit Committee is 
to review and report to the Board on:
> The scope of and plans for audits of 
the Company by the external auditor
and the internal audit function.
> The implementation of the external 
and internal audit plans and the
handling of any material issues arising
from those audits.
> The Company' s overall framework for
internal control over financial reporting
and its financial reporting processes.
> The Company' s overall framework 
for other internal controls.
> The Company' s overall framework 
for risk management with particular
emphasis on financial risks.
> The accounting policies and practices
of the Company.
> The annual and quarterly financial
reporting carried out by the Company.
Audit Committee' s Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and 
Form 20-F Information 2004
Audit Committee's Report
59
> Areview at the beginning of 2004 of 
the performance of the external auditor
which resulted in the Audit Committee
unanimously recommending that a
resolution for the re-appointment of
KPMG Audit Plc as the Company' s
external auditor be proposed to
shareholders at the AGM in April 2004.
> Areview of the performance of the
internal audit function and, in particular,
recruitment and career development
plans for internal audit staff.
> Areport from the Development 
function concerning the Company' s
clinical development programmes 
and the key risks managed by the 
drug safety and quality management
teams within Development.
> Areport from the Director of Group 
T ax about the Company' s approach 
to risk management in relation to
taxation matters.
> The amount of audit and non-audit 
fees of the external auditor. The Audit
Committee was satisfied throughout 
the year that the objectivity and
independence of the external auditor
were not in any way impaired by either
the nature of the non-audit work
undertaken by the external auditor
during the year, the level of non-audit
fees charged for such work or any other
facts or circumstances. Full details of
the audit and non-audit fees for the year
are disclosed in Note 32 to the Financial
Statements.
> The Company' s continuing work to
comply with the applicable provisions 
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The Audit Committee regularly
reviewed, in particular, the Company' s
work to prepare for the implementation
in 2005 of section 404 of the Act
concerning internal control over
financial reporting.
> Areview and assessment of how the
Audit Committee operates.
At the scheduled meeting of the Audit
Committee held at the end of January 2005,
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial
Officer presented to the Audit Committee
their conclusions following the evaluation of
the effectiveness of the Company' s
disclosure controls and procedures
required by Item 15(a) of Form 20-F as at 31
December 2004. Based on their evaluation,
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial
Officer concluded that, as at that date, the
Company maintains an effective system 
of disclosure controls and procedures.
During 2004, the Company' s US business
and its facility at Dunkirk in France
successfully implemented major new
accounting software. Other than this, there
was no change in the Company' s internal
control over financial reporting that
occurred during the period covered by this
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information
that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company' s
internal control over financial reporting.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Dr J G S Buchanan
Non-Executive Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee
27 January 2005
the Company' s financial disclosures,
the implementation of Inventory
Management Agreements with a
number of wholesalers in the US, the
handling of managed care rebates 
and product returns in the US, and the
effect of currency exchange rates on 
the Company' s financial statements.
> Reports from the external auditor
concerning its audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
> Reports from management on the
Company' s general risk profile and the
assessment and management of risk.
> Reports from management, the internal
audit function and the external auditor
on the effectiveness of the Company' s
system of internal controls and, in
particular, internal financial controls.
These included a review and discussion
of the results of the Company' s  letter 
of assurance' process for 2004 and
reviews of quarterly activity reports from
the internal audit function and the status
of follow-up actions with management.
> Areport of calls made by employees
to the Company' s Code of Conduct
helpline seeking guidance on corporate
responsibility issues or raising concerns
and the results of the reviews of these
matters. T o date, no material issues
have been identified through this route.
> Areview of the Company' s preparations
for the adoption in 2005 of International
Accounting Standards/International
Financial Reporting Standards,
including the approval of proposed
changes to certain of the Company' s
accounting policies. The Audit
Committee also reviewed and approved
the Company' s publication in October
2004 of its financial information for 2003
and the first half of 2004 re-stated in
accordance with IAS/IFRS (subject to
any subsequent changes made to the
standards before adoption).
> Continuing review of the Company' s 
US sales and marketing compliance
programme, including the five year
Corporate Integrity Agreement 
between the Company and the 
Office of Inspector General for 
the US Department of Health and
Human Services signed in 2003.
> Proposals from the internal audit
function and the external auditor about
their audit programmes for 2004.