 68
AstraZeneca Annual Report and
Form 20-F Information 2005
AUDIT COMMITTEE'S REPORT
The current members of the Audit Committee
are John Buchanan (Chairman of the
Committee), Jane Henney, Michele Hooper
and Dame Bridget Ogilvie. They are all 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers
each member to be independent under the 
UK Combined Code and under the general
guidance and specific criteria of the New York
Stock Exchange' s corporate governance
listing standards concerning the composition
of audit committees. In August 2005, the
Company submitted the required annual
written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its
full compliance with those standards. Marcus
Wallenberg was a member of the Audit
Committee throughout 2005 but stepped
down with effect from 31 December 2005.
The Board remains satisfied that more than
one member of the Audit Committee has
recent and relevant financial experience. 
At its meeting in December 2005, the Board
determined that Dr Buchanan and Ms Hooper
are audit committee financial experts for 
the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
of 2002.
The core remit of the Audit Committee includes
reviewing and reporting to the Board on:
> Matters relating to the audit plans of 
the external auditor and the internal 
audit function.
> The Company' s overall framework for
internal control over financial reporting and
for other internal controls and processes.
> The Company' s overall framework for risk
management with particular emphasis 
on financial risks.
> The accounting policies and practices 
of the Company.
> The annual and quarterly financial reporting
carried out by the Company.
The Audit Committee is charged with promptly
bringing to the attention of the Board any
significant concerns of the external auditor 
or the Chief Internal Auditor about the conduct,
results or overall outcome of their audit work,
any matters which may significantly affect 
or impair the independence of the external
auditor, any significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in the design or operation of 
the Company' s internal control over financial
reporting or other internal controls and any
serious issues of non-compliance.
The Audit Committee oversees the
establishment, implementation and
maintenance of the Company' s Code of
Conduct. It establishes procedures for the
receipt and handling of complaints concerning
accounting or audit matters. It appoints and
agrees the compensation for the external
auditor subject, in each case, to the approval
of the Company' s shareholders at a general
meeting. The Audit Committee reviews and
approves the appointment and any dismissal
of the Chief Internal Auditor.
The Audit Committee maintains policies and
procedures for the pre-approval of all audit
services and permitted non-audit services
undertaken by the external auditor . The principal
purpose of these policies and procedures is 
to ensure that the independence of the
external auditor is not impaired. The policies
and procedures cover three categories of
work - audit services, audit-related services
and tax services. The policies define the type
of work which falls within each of these
categories, as well as those non-audit services
which the external auditor is prohibited from
performing under the rules of the US Securities
and Exchange Commission. The pre-approval
procedures permit certain audit, audit-related
and tax services to be performed by the
external auditor during the year, subject to 
fee limits agreed with the Audit Committee in
advance. The Group Financial Controller and
the Director of Group T ax monitor the status 
of all services being provided by the external
auditor. The procedures also deal with the
placing of non-audit work out for tender, where
appropriate. Authority to approve work in
excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in the
first instance. Regular reports to the full Audit
Committee are also provided for and, in
practice, a standing agenda item at Audit
Committee meetings covers the operation 
of the pre-approval procedures.
The full remit of the Audit Committee is available
on the Company' s website: astrazeneca.com.
The Audit Committee held seven scheduled
and two unscheduled meetings in 2005.
Seven of the meetings were held in London, UK
(including three by telephone). One meeting was
held in the US and one in Alderley Park, UK. 
All Audit Committee members participated in
all meetings, save as set out in the following
table. Michele Hooper chaired those meetings
that the Chairman of the Committee was
unable to attend.
Number of 
Name meetings attended 
John Buchanan 7
Jane Henney 5
Michele Hooper 8
Dame Bridget Ogilvie 9
Marcus Wallenberg 8
In addition to attendance at Audit Committee
meetings, members of the Audit Committee
met individual managers or groups of managers
from the Company on a number of occasions
during 2005. This direct contact with
management below the level of Chief Financial
Officer and Group Financial Controller helped
the Directors gain a deeper insight into areas
relevant to the Audit Committee' s work and
provided an opportunity to discuss specific
areas of interest.
During the year, in line with its normal practice,
the Audit Committee also held a number 
of private meetings, without management
present, with both the Company' s Chief
Internal Auditor and the lead partners from the
Company' s external audit firm. The purpose 
of these meetings was to facilitate free and open
discussions between the Audit Committee
members and those individuals, separately
from the main sessions of the Audit Committee,
which were attended by the Chief Financial
Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
The Audit Committee is currently scheduled 
to meet seven times in 2006.
During 2005, the business considered and
discussed by the Audit Committee included
the matters referred to below. Following each
Audit Committee meeting, the Chairman of 
the Committee reported to the Board on the
principal matters covered at the meeting. 
The minutes of Audit Committee meetings
were also circulated to all Board members.
> The Company' s financial disclosures 
were reviewed and various accounting
matters considered.
> The Company' s transition to financial
reporting under International Accounting
Standards/International Financial Reporting
Standards was monitored. This included
the review and approval of changes to
certain accounting policies as part of that
transition and review of the Company' s
restated consolidated financial statements
under IAS/IFRS for the comparative
periods of 2003 and 2004. 69
> Reports were received from the external
auditor concerning its audit of the financial
statements of the Company and from
management, the internal audit function 
and the external auditor on the
effectiveness of the Company' s system 
of internal controls and, in particular, its
internal control over financial reporting. 
This included review and discussion of the
results of the Company' s  continuous
assurance' and annual  letter of assurance'
processes. These processes are described
in the Directors' Report on pages 64 and 65. 
The Audit Committee also reviewed quarterly
activity reports of audit work carried out 
by the internal audit function and the status
of follow-up actions with management.
> The Audit Committee reviewed data about
calls made by employees to the Company' s
Code of Conduct helpline seeking
guidance on corporate responsibility issues
or raising concerns and the results of the
reviews of these matters. No material
issues were reported through this route
during the year.
> The Audit Committee reviewed accounting
matters relating to the Company' s
arrangements with Merck & Co., Inc.
resulting from the restructuring in 1998 
of the joint venture between Astra AB and
Merck & Co., Inc.
> Continuing review took place of the
Company' s US sales and marketing
compliance programme as well as
initiatives being taken in the International
Sales and Marketing Organisation in
respect of internal control, governance 
and compliance matters.
> Matters concerning the internal audit and
global finance functions were reviewed.
> The amount of audit and non-audit fees 
of the external auditor were monitored
throughout 2005. The Audit Committee
was satisfied throughout the year that 
the objectivity and independence of the
external auditor were not in any way
impaired by either the nature of the non-
audit work undertaken by the external
auditor during the year, the level of non-
audit fees charged for such work or any
other facts or circumstances. Further
details of the audit and non-audit fees 
for the year are disclosed in Note 27
to the Financial Statements on page 127.
> The Company' s continuing work to comply
with the applicable provisions of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was monitored
by the Audit Committee. In particular, 
it regularly reviewed preparations for the
implementation in 2006 of section 404 of
the Act concerning internal control over
financial reporting. The Audit Committee
also periodically reviewed the role of the
external auditor in the section 404 work 
to ensure its independence is not impaired
when it provides attestation opinions 
in 2006. More details about the status of
the Company' s implementation of section
404 are set out in the Financial Review on
page 56.
> The Audit Committee' s remit was reviewed
during 2005; it was concluded that the
remit remains appropriate and no changes
were recommended.
> A review and assessment of the Audit
Committee' s performance was carried out.
Following discussions at its meeting in January
2006, the Audit Committee unanimously
recommended to the Board that a resolution
for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as
the Company' s external auditor be proposed
to shareholders at the AGM in April 2006.
At the same meeting, the Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
presented to the Audit Committee their
conclusions following the evaluation of the
effectiveness of the Company' s disclosure
controls and procedures required by Item
15(a) of Form 20-F as at 31 December 2005.
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
concluded that, as at that date, the Company
maintains an effective system of disclosure
controls and procedures.
There was no change in the Company' s
internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the period covered by this
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Company' s internal
control over financial reporting.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
JOHN BUCHANAN
Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
2 February 2006
Audit Committee' s Report