 10 Scipher plc Annual Report 2003
Corporate Governance Statement
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
Scipher is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance. The Board considers that it has complied throughout the
financial year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except where otherwise indicated below.
Directors
The Board leads and maintains effective control over Scipher's activities. The level of control it can exercise with regard to joint ventures
and associated undertakings necessarily reflects the extent of its management influence in each case and the governance framework of
each entity.
The Board consists of a Chairman, Dr K W Gray, four other Executive Directors, Mr C G Mutter, Dr A W Vaidya, Mr P B Stern and
Mr B F duPont, and three Non-executive Directors, Mr W H N Pearce, Mr R A Henderson and Mr D R Chapchal. The Non-executive
Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere
with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors are of sufficient calibre and
number to bring the strength of independence to the Board and, therefore, does not propose to nominate one of them as senior
independent Director. The Board recognises that this is not in accordance with the Combined Code. Mr W H N Pearce will retire at the
Annual General Meeting, bringing the number of Non-executive Directors to less than one-third of the Board. The Board recognises that
this is not in accordance with the Combined Code. The Non-executive Directors receive a fixed fee for their services and the
reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending meetings.
The combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive is approved by the Board. The Board considers the combined role appropriate to
the relative size of Scipher, although separate roles are stipulated under the Combined Code. The key functions in this appointment are
to conduct Board meetings and meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and
constructive part in Board decisions. It is also central to the appointment to develop and lead business strategies and processes that
enable Scipher to meet shareholder requirements.
The appropriateness of the composition of the Board will continue to be reviewed on a periodic basis. 
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 8. These indicate the high levels and range of business experience they possess and
that are essential to manage effectively a business of the nature and complexity of Scipher.
The Board meets at least 10 times each year and more frequently when business requires. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved
to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated widely throughout the senior management
of Scipher. Such matters include material capital commitments, commencing or settling major litigation, business acquisitions and
disposals and appointments to subsidiary company boards. The Board has delegated certain matters to committees, details of which are
set out below.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense. In addition, every
Director has access to the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures
and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
To enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all
relevant information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress
reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Mr D R Chapchal was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 14 April 2003 and Mr P B Stern and Mr B F duPont were appointed as
Directors on 29 April 2003. In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, Mr D R Chapchal, Mr P B Stern and
Mr B F duPont will offer themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting. At every Annual General Meeting, Directors who were
elected or last re-elected three years previously must retire and may stand for re-election. Dr K W Gray and Mr W H N Pearce will retire
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and Dr Gray will offer himself for re-election.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required. It considers appointments of both Executive and Non-executive Directors. It is
currently chaired by Mr W H N Pearce and comprises the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman. The Nomination Committee
consults with the Executive Directors when considering appointments and external search consultants are used to ensure that a wide
range of candidates can be considered. The recommendations of the Nomination Committee are made to the Board, which considers
them before any appointment is made. Each Director receives appropriate training on appointment and subsequently as necessary.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year. It is chaired by Mr R A Henderson and comprises the Non-executive Directors. The
Auditors, the Chairman and the Finance Director attend the meetings by invitation. It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to
examine and review internal controls, together with accounting policies and practices, the form and context of financial reports and
statements and general matters raised by the Auditors. It is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the
appointment of the external Auditors and reviews their independence and objectivity.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required. It is currently chaired by Mr W H N Pearce and comprises the 
Non-executive Directors. The Chairman attends the meetings by invitation. The Board's policy on executive remuneration and the details
of Executive Directors' individual remuneration packages are fixed by the Committee. Full details of the Directors' remuneration and a
statement of the Company's remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing on pages 12 to 14.  Scipher plc Annual Report 2003 11
Directors' responsibilities
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. The Directors
confirm that in preparing the financial statements on pages 16 to 39, appropriate accounting policies have been selected, that they have
been consistently applied, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards
have been followed. 
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985. 
They also have general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and Group and to prevent and
to detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Information published on the website is
accessible over the Internet in many countries with legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements that differ from the legislation that applies in the United Kingdom.
Internal control
The Group has increased its level of compliance with the guidance contained in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code (the Turnbull Report). Joint ventures and associated undertakings have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the
purposes of applying this guidance.
The Board has overall responsibility for Scipher's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of
management is to implement Board policies on risk and control. The system of internal control is designed to manage the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives, rather than to eliminate it. Internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by Scipher. This process was formalised in
February 2001 and is regularly reviewed by the Board, including the need for an internal audit function. The processes used by the
Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following:
  The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for
consideration;
  The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of its meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit
Committee meetings;
  The Board considers financing and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees and indemnities;
  The Board reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the Group; and
  The Group's management operates a risk-management process which identifies the key risks facing each business and reports to the
Audit Committee on how those risks are being managed. A Group risk register identifies key risks, the probability of those risks
occurring, their impact should they occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Relationship with shareholders
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful relationship with its shareholders. Scipher maintains a regular and
open dialogue, based on the mutual understanding of objectives, with its institutional shareholders. Its investor relations programme
includes regular meetings between the Executive Directors and institutional shareholders, and general presentations following
announcement of the half-year and annual results. 
The Company uses the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders and complies with Section 1C
of the Combined Code. The Annual General Meeting will be held at 4.00 p.m. on Thursday, 18 September 2003 at the Company's
offices, Dawley Road, Hayes, Middlesex. A r sum  of the business carried out at the Annual General Meeting will be available on
request from the Registrars after the meeting.