 36 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Audit Committee Report
Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board 
from the non-executive Directors. The main role and responsibilities 
of the Committee include:
-  considering and making recommendations to the Board regarding 
the appointment of the external auditor, the audit fee, and any 
questions relating to the resignation or dismissal of the external 
auditor;
-  overseeing the process for selecting the external auditor and 
making appropriate recommendations for its appointment;
-  considering (if appropriate) the degree of any work undertaken by 
the external auditor for the Group other than the statutory audit;
-  assessing annually the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor, taking into account the provision, if any, of 
non-audit services;
-  reviewing the half-year and annual Financial Statements before 
submission to the Board and reporting on them to the Board;
-  discussing with the external auditor problems and reservations,  
if any, arising from the interim and final audits and any other 
matters the external auditor may raise;
-  reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function; 
considering the major findings of internal audit investigations and 
management's response; ensuring co-ordination between the 
Group and the external auditor; and ensuring that the internal 
audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate 
standing within the Group;
-  reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems, and the 
external auditor's management letter and management's 
response;
-  reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process 
ensuring that the process is active and dynamic; 
-  understanding the strategy at both Group and operational levels 
to ensure that business risks and other relevant issues are 
effectively identified and communicated to the Board; and
-  considering any other topics specifically delegated to the 
Committee by the Board from time to time.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, 
identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action  
or improvement is needed, and to make recommendations as to  
the steps to be taken.
The Audit Committee's Terms of Reference may be found on the 
Company's website. 
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee, all of whom are independent 
non-executive Directors, are David Best (Chairman), Ian Much and 
Michael Steel. All members of the Committee have significant 
commercial and financial experience at a senior management level. 
David Best has the recent and relevant financial experience required 
by the Combined Code to chair the Committee. Two members 
constitute a quorum for the Committee.
Michael Steel is to retire from the Board at the Annual General 
Meeting 2011 and will not be standing for re-election. It is planned 
that a new independent non-executive Director will be appointed  
to the Audit Committee in 2011 to replace him.
The Board expects the Audit Committee to have an understanding of:
-  the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial 
reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and 
statements of recommended practice;
-  the key aspects of the Group's operations, including corporate 
policies, Group financing, products and systems of internal 
control;
-  the matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts 
and key figures;
-  the principles of, and developments in, company law,  
sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation;
-  the roles of internal and external auditing and risk management; 
and
-  the regulatory framework for the Group's businesses.
Meetings
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has  
an agenda linked to events in the Group's financial calendar. The 
agenda is predominantly cyclical, although each Audit Committee 
member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in 
addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee normally invites the non-executive Chairman, 
Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller, Group Internal Auditor, and senior representatives of the 
external auditor to attend all of its meetings, although it reserves  
the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The Audit Committee also holds separate discussions with the 
internal and external auditor on a regular basis without the presence 
of executive management.
External Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Group's policy on external 
audit. The Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring the 
external auditor's independence, objectivity and compliance with 
regulatory requirements.
Whilst the Company does not have a policy of subjecting its external 
auditor to a regular fixed-term rotation, the Committee remains 
cognisant of the importance of maintaining the objectivity of the 
Company's external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope, cost and timing of  
the work of the external auditor, and acts to ensure its findings are 
appropriately implemented. The Committee also reviews the level 
and type of non-audit work carried out by the Company's external 
auditor. In 2010,  0.2m (2009 -  0.2m) was paid in fees to the 
external auditor for non-audit work; these fees related to tax 
compliance and tax advice. The Committee considered it was 
beneficial for the Company to retain Deloitte LLP for this work 
because of their expertise in this area and their knowledge of  
the Group. However, the Committee will continue to monitor  
the nature and level of such non-audit work, in order to balance  
the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.  Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee 
reviewed the external auditor's performance during the year and its 
fulfillment of the agreed audit plan.
To fulfill its responsibility regarding the independence of the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:
-  the changes in key external audit staff: the current Audit Partner 
took over the role by rotation in 2009;
-  a report from the external auditor describing the arrangements 
that had been made to identify, report and manage any conflicts 
of interest and to maintain its independence; 
-  the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external 
auditor; and
-  the FRC's Audit Inspection Unit public report on Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditor. As a consequence of its 
satisfaction with the results of the activities of the external auditor, 
the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that  
Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
Internal Audit Function
The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its 
responsibilities relating to the effectiveness, resourcing and plans  
of the Internal Audit function. In 2010, the Audit Committee:
-  monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Company's 
internal audit function in the context of the Company's overall  
risk management system;
-  approved the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit;
-  considered and approved the remit of the internal audit function 
and ensured it had adequate resources and appropriate access  
to information to enable it to perform its function effectively  
and in accordance with the relevant professional standards.  
The Committee also ensured that the Head of Internal Audit  
had adequate standing and was free from management or  
other restrictions;
-  reviewed and assessed the annual internal audit plan;
-  reviewed reports addressed to the Committee from the Head  
of Internal Audit; and
-  reviewed and monitored management's responsiveness to the 
findings and recommendations of the Head of Internal Audit.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Chairman of  
the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee  
to Discharge its Duties
During the year, the Audit Committee:
-  reviewed the Financial Statements in the Annual Report 2009, 
and the Interim Report issued in August 2010, as well as other 
formal announcements relating to the Group's financial position. 
As part of this review, the Committee received a report from the 
external auditor on the audit of the Annual Report 2009 and the 
work carried out on the Interim Report 2010; 
-  reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's risk management and 
internal control systems and disclosures made in the Annual 
Report 2009;
-  reviewed and agreed the going concern basis to be adopted  
for the 2009 Financial Statements;
-  assessed the effectiveness of the 2009 Audit;
-  reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit and client service 
plan to be undertaken by the external auditor for 2010;
-  agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditor for the audit  
of the Financial Statements 2010 and the review of the Interim 
Report 2010, and the fees to be paid for any non-audit work;
-  reviewed the Business Continuity Plans and IT Risk Assessments 
of the Group's businesses;
-  carried out an evaluation of the performance of the external 
auditor; 
-  agreed a programme of work for the Head of Internal Audit; and 
received reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work he 
had undertaken and the management responses to the proposals 
made in his audit reports during the year;
-  monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function;
-  oversaw the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit 
following the predecessor's retirement;
-  reviewed the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee;
-  reviewed the Group's whistle-blowing policy and procedures; and
-  reviewed and agreed the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's 
system of internal control and for the review of its effectiveness; 
details of the Group's system of internal control can be found within 
the Operating and Financial Review on pages 10 to 24.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee  
has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of 
Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of  
the external auditor. The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be 
available at the AGM 2011 to answer any questions about the work 
of the Committee.
Approval
This Report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on 
its behalf by:
David Best
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
25 February 2011