 Report of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee: 
Gordon Stuart, Chairman
The Audit Committee comprises two 
independent Non-Executive Directors, 
in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code relating to companies which are not 
constituents of the FTSE 350. The Committee 
meets at least three times a year, together 
with representatives of the executive and 
finance management teams and the external 
auditors as appropriate. It also meets 
privately with the external auditors  
on a regular basis. 
The Committee:
  is Chaired by an individual with  
recent, significant and relevant  
financial experience;
  is responsible for recommending the 
appointment, review and remuneration of 
the external auditors and has authority to 
approve their engagement for both audit 
and permitted non-audit services within 
an agreed framework;
Topic What was considered
Financial reporting   The Annual Report, Interim Results and related announcements, together with reports from 
the external auditor. Further details on specific financial reporting risks identified, and their 
mitigation, are given below. 
Internal controls   The effectiveness of the Group's internal control systems and risk management processes in 
place during the period, as set out on page 41.
Risk register   The Group's risk register, which forms an integral part of the Group's risk management 
process, as set out on page 41.
The external auditor   The proposed audit plan of the external auditor, together with the results of their review of 
the Interim Results, the audit of the Annual Report, their proposed fees and the policies in 
place to ensure the external auditor's independence, as set out below.
Going concern   The basis of the statement on Going Concern on page 59.
The Committee met three times during the year and addressed the following:
  assesses the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditors 
against specific criteria;
  reviews the external audit process and 
post-audit findings;
  reviews the annual and half-year financial 
statements, the Group's accounting 
policies and procedures and its financial 
control environment; 
  monitors the Group's system of internal 
controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance risk management;
  reviews updates to the Group's key 
policies including, during the period,  
its anti-bribery and related policies  
and its whistleblowing arrangements,  
which now include an externally managed 
hotline; and
  considers whether in its view the Annual 
Report taken as a whole provides a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Group's position and prospects, the 
ultimate judgement on which is decided 
by the Board.
The Committee met three times during the 
year and addressed the following:
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements As part of its consideration of the Annual Report the Committee identified the 
following significant financial reporting issues:
Significant financial reporting issues for 2014  How the committee addressed these issues
Changes in relevant laws and regulations  The Committee considered the impact of recent changes in relevant laws  
and regulations, including those concerning narrative reporting, Remuneration  
Reports, Greenhouse Gas reporting and taxation, and ensured that these were  
reflected in the Annual Report. 
Revenue recognition The Committee assessed the Group's policy in relation to revenue recognition,  
 together with associated risk management and approval processes.
Capitalisation of development costs  The Committee reviewed the methodology used to determine whether specific 
projects qualified for capitalisation, and when amortisation should commence, 
together with the basis for subsequent reviews of capitalised development costs  
for potential impairment and useful economic lives.
Overdue accounts receivable  The Committee reviewed the methodology used to assess overdue accounts  
for potential indicators of impairment, together with management's judgement  
as to the level of provision required against specific receivables.
 
Report of the Audit Committee continued
The Audit Committee has set a policy which 
is intended to maintain the independence 
and integrity of the Company's auditors 
when acting as auditor of the Group's 
accounts. The policy governs the provision 
of audit and non-audit services provided 
by the auditor and, in summary, requires 
significant non-audit services other than 
routine tax compliance services to be subject 
to a competitive tendering process. The fees 
paid to the auditor for audit services, audit 
related services and other non-audit services 
are set out in Note 9 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Non-audit services over  5,000  
are subject to approval by the  
Audit Committee. 
We are mindful of the possibility of placing 
the Group audit out to tender, and will 
keep this possibility under review in the 
coming years, taking into account the 
outcome of the Audit Committee's annual 
review of the effectiveness of the external 
audit process. The Group will be subject  
to the EU mandatory rotation regime  
when it applies in the UK and will review  
its policy for the rotation of audit firms 
when the UK requirements are finalised. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has served  
as the Company's auditor for the last 
12 years, during the last 7 of which the 
Company's Ordinary shares have been 
traded on the Official List of the London 
Stock Exchange. There has not been  
an audit tender during that time.
The Audit Committee is authorised to 
engage the services of external advisers,  
as it deems necessary, at the Company's 
expense in order to carry out its functions.
40 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014   procedures by which Sepura's 
consolidated financial statements 
are prepared, which are monitored 
and maintained through the use 
of internal control frameworks 
addressing key financial reporting 
risks arising from changes in the 
business or accounting standards;
  an experienced and commercially focused 
legal function that supports the Group's 
bid and contracts' management process;
  established policies and procedures 
setting out expected standards of integrity 
and ethical standards which reinforce the 
need for all employees to adhere to all 
legal and regulatory requirements;
  an experienced and qualified finance 
function which regularly assesses the 
possible financial impact of the risks facing 
the Group; and
  an ongoing risk management programme, 
including a comprehensive disaster 
recovery and business interruption plan.
The Audit Committee considers annually 
whether there is any need for a separate 
internal audit activity and has again 
concluded in the period that in its opinion, 
given the scale and nature of the Group's 
operations, this is not required.
A Risk Committee, comprising the senior 
management team, meets on a regular basis. 
The Company has a robust risk management 
process that follows a sequence of risk 
identification, assessment of probability and 
impact, and assigns an owner to manage 
mitigation activities. A register is kept of all 
corporate risks and is monitored by the Risk 
Committee. The Risk Committee, the Audit 
Committee and the Board together ensure 
that the risk management process  
is operating effectively. This approach  
to risk management helps to facilitate  
top-down and bottom-up perspectives 
across key business risks within the 
organisation. The corporate risk register is 
presented to, and reviewed by, the Audit 
Committee regularly.
Internal controls and risk  
management environment
The Board is ultimately responsible for 
the operation of an effective system of 
internal control and risk management 
appropriate to the business. Of course, 
any control system can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
The Company has complied with the 
FRC's Internal Control Guidance for 
Directors on the Code throughout the 
period and up to the date on which these 
financial statements were approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial 
responsibility rests with senior management 
and performance is closely monitored 
through the Operations Management 
Committee, which meets on a weekly basis.
The following key elements comprise the 
present internal control environment which 
has been designed to identify, evaluate and 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks 
faced by the Group in seeking to achieve 
its business objectives and ensure accurate 
and timely reporting of financial data for the 
Company and the Group.
The process is embedded in the Group 
through various operational and financial 
control and procedure statements:
  an appropriate organisational structure 
with clear lines of responsibility;
  a comprehensive annual strategic and 
business planning process;
  systems of control procedures and 
delegated authorities which operate 
within defined guidelines and approval 
limits for capital and operating 
expenditure and other key business 
transactions and decisions;
  a robust financial control, budgeting and 
rolling forecast system, which includes 
regular monitoring, variance analysis,  
key performance indicator reviews and risk 
and opportunity assessments at  
Board level;
The internal control process described above 
has been in place throughout the period 
and up to the date of approval of this  
Annual Report.
The Company's Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, which was reviewed and 
refreshed during the year has been  
re-communicated across the Company 
together with the Whistleblowing Policy 
which provides a mechanism through which 
employees can raise public interest issues 
on a confidential basis. These policies form 
an integral part of the Company's internal 
control policy.
Review of effectiveness
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems and risk 
management processes in place during 
the period, taking account of any material 
developments since the financial period end, 
and can confirm that no significant failings 
or weaknesses were found.
Gordon Stuart
Chairman of the Audit Committee
9 June 2014
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements