 Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011
12
Corporate governance
Lindsay N. Bury (Chairman of the Board)
Dear shareholder
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance, and although not required to do so by the AIM
Rules, the directors have decided to provide corporate governance disclosures comparable with those required of a
listed company.
There is commitment to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. The Board confirms that for
the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate
Governance Code, with the exception of the matters referred to below:
  Provision A.4.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Board should appoint one of the
independent non-executive directors to be the senior independent director. Under the Code, the Chairman is
not considered independent. The Chairman of the company has been appointed to this role as he is
considered to be the most appropriately experienced director to undertake this role; however the Board
accepts that this is not in compliance with provision A.4.1. The position will be reviewed from time to time and
where contact through normal channels does not satisfy investors' concerns, then alternative contact via the
non-executive directors will be arranged as appropriate.
  Provision B.6.1 requires a statement to be made of the Board's formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own
performance and that of its committees and individual directors. No such formal review of Board performance
takes place, as the Board considers an informal rolling programme of review to be more appropriate given the
Group's current scale.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code so far as it is practicable and appropriate for a
public company of its size. The Company also follows the recommendations on corporate governance of the Quoted
Companies Alliance (QCA).
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and the statement set out below
describes how the principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied.
Directors
At 31 December 2011, the Board comprised a Chairman, two executive Directors, namely the Chief Executive, and
the Finance Director, and two independent non-executive Directors, all of whom bring a wide range of skills and
experience to the Board. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated and clearly defined. The Chairman
is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and the Chief Executive for the running of the business and
implementation of Board strategy and policy. The Chief Executive is assisted in managing the business on a day-to-day
basis by an executive management Board whose span of control covers the outsourcing and hosting and the
scheduling businesses; it meets at least monthly and comprises of the global operations director, global sales director
and finance director. Notwithstanding the requirements of the Code, each of the non-executive directors is considered
by the Board to be independent despite their interests in the share capital detailed on page 10 because they are
considered to be independent from management and free from any relationship which could materially interfere with
the exercise of their judgement.
The non-executive directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby helping to ensure
that no one individual or group dominates the Board's decision-making process. In particular the non-executive
directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Corporate governance statement 13
The Board's focus is on strategy formulation, policy and control. A corporate governance framework has been
adopted by the Board, which identifies its roles and responsibilities and how these are discharged.
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 9 of this report.
There were 6 Board meetings in 2011. The attendance of directors is set out below:
L N Bury 6
M Duffin 6
H Fitzwilliam-Lay 6
R Burger 5
S A Gillings 6
One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that Board members receive sufficient and timely information
regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties. The adequacy of this information is
periodically reviewed.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a
procedure whereby Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional
advice at the expense of ServicePower.
The Company Secretary is also charged with ensuring that any new Board members are equipped to fulfil their duties
and responsibilities. The induction and personal development of both executive and non-executive Directors is subject
to ongoing review to ensure ServicePower operates in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a three year term, after which their appointment may be extended upon
mutual agreement. It is envisaged that the maximum term for a non-executive Director under this regime is unlikely to
exceed nine years. However, as noted on page 10, L N Bury has served for greater than nine years and therefore offers
himself for annual re-election. In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, one-third of the Board are
required to retire by rotation each year, or if their number is not three or an integral multiple of three, the number
nearest to but not exceeding one-third, shall retire from office. However, over a three year period all Directors must
have retired from the Board and faced re-election. Additionally, each director must retire at the third annual general
meeting following his appointment or reappointment in a general meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is L N Bury, and concerns relating to the executive management of the
Company or the performance of the other non-executive directors can be raised with him.Whilst no formal review of
performance takes place, if a member of the Board were not performing, and as the Board compromises five members
it would be immediately apparent, then remedial action would be the responsibility of Mr Bury in his capacity as
Chairman.
The Audit Committee is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience, all members have many years of
financial experience, details of which are referred to in their biographies on page 9. Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011
14
Committees of the Board
The Board maintains three standing committees; all of which operate within written terms of reference. They are the
Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee. Their minutes are circulated for
review and consideration by the full complement of Directors, supplemented by oral reports from the committee
chairman, or other members. The Nominations Committee meets on an ad hoc basis as required to make
recommendations in relation to all new appointments to the Board. The Audit Committee met on 22 March 2011 and
was attended by H Fitzwilliam-Lay, L N Bury and R Burger; M Duffin and S A Gillings attended by invitation.
The members of the committees are as follows:
H Fitzwilliam-Lay (Chairman of the Audit Committee), L N Bury, R Burger
L N Bury (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee), H Fitzwilliam-Lay, R Burger
R Burger (Chairman of the Nominations Committee), L N Bury, H Fitzwilliam-Lay
The reports of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee follow on pages 16 to 19.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal control covering all controls including
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout
ServicePower. Such a control system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss, and is designed not to eliminate risk, but to enable ServicePower to achieve its corporate
objectives within a managed risk profile. The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk and
control, whilst management is responsible for designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control
processes to implement Board policies effectively.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing ServicePower's significant risks has
operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. This process has
been subject to regular annual review by the Board and is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control
published in October 2005 (TheTurnbull Guidance). During the year, steps have been taken to embed internal control
and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come
to the Board's and management's attention. The key elements of the process are as follows:
 Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committees in the context of an agreed
strategic framework, which is revised during the year through one or more meetings devoted specifically to the
long term strategic direction of ServicePower. Annually, ServicePower produces a three year plan to reflect and
respond to the strategic challenges facing ServicePower, which is approved by the Board. Detailed financial and
operating plans are developed for the year ahead and monthly reports are provided to the Board covering
actual performance against plan, analysis of significant variances and scrutiny of key performance indicators.
 The Executive Committee manages the business on a day to day basis and the Divisional Directors are
responsible for embedding risk management and control in accordance with the corporate governance
framework.
The Board undertakes a formal annual assessment of the overall risk management in order to form a view on the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls. The Board has concluded that the size of the company and the volume
of transactions currently does not warrant an Internal Audit department. This is subject to annual review. 15
There has been no change in ServicePower's internal control over financial reporting during the 2011 fiscal year that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial
reporting.
Relations with shareholders
ServicePower values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors. Effective two-way communication with
fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is actively pursued and this encompasses issues such as performance,
policy and strategy. The Company also posts financial information on its website www.servicepower.com.
All investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairman presents a review of
the results and comments on current business activity. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any shareholder questions.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated more than 20 working days before the Meeting and
ServicePower will continue its practice of proposing only unbundled individual resolutions.
On behalf of the Board
L N Bury
Chairman
22 March 2012