 Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the
date of this resolution, whichever is earlier, save that the Company may, before such
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to
be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance
of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred hereby has
expired and in this resolution the expression equity securities  and references to the
allotment of equity securities shall bear the same respective meanings as in section 94
of the Act.
11.THAT the amended Articles of Association of the Company in the form produced to
the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be and
are hereby adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in place of and to
the exclusion of the existing Articles of Association of the Company (such amendments
to take account of certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act )
which will or are being brought into force following the staged repeal of the Companies
Act 1985).
Registered Office:
1 Astra Centre
Edinburgh Way
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BN
By order of the Board
Steven John Weaver
Secretary
23 March 2007
Notes:
1. Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint
a proxy to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead. The proxy need not be a member
of the Company.
2. For the convenience of members who may be unable to attend the meeting, a form
of proxy is enclosed which should be completed and returned to Lloyds TSB Registrars,
The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL, not less than 48 hours before the time
fixed for the meeting. The fact that members may have completed forms of proxy will
not prevent them from attending and voting in person should they afterwards decide
to do so.
3. Copies of service contracts between the directors and the Company or any subsidiary
of the Company, and the register of directors' shareholdings and transactions will be
available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business
hours on any weekday (Saturdays and public holidays excluded) from the date of this
notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual
General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting.
4. Pursuant to section 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001 members who hold
ordinary shares in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Company's Register
of Members by 6 00 pm on 1 May 2007 in order to be entitled to attend and vote at the
meeting. Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares in the
Company held at that time.
45
Notice of Annual
General Meeting
Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 1st ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of SERVOCELL GROUP
PLC will be held at the offices of Lawrence Graham at 190 Strand, London, WC2R 1JN on
3 May 2007 at 11 00 am at which the following resolutions will be proposed, in the case
of resolutions 1 to 8 as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions 9,10 and 11 as
special resolutions:
As Ordinary Business:
1. To receive and consider the audited financial statements of the Company for the period
ended 31 December 2006 and the Directors' Report and Auditors' Report thereon.
2. To approve the Directors' Remuneration Report for the period ended 31 December 2006.
3. To re-appoint MRI Moores Rowland LLP as auditors to the Company until the conclusion
of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the directors to fix their
remuneration.
4. To re-elect Henry Richard Green, who retires pursuant to the Articles of Association
of the Company, as a director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Michael George Hartley, who retires pursuant to the Articles of Association
of the Company, as a director of the Company.
6. To re-elect Simon Colin Powell, who retires pursuant to the Articles of Association
of the Company, as a director of the Company.
7. To re-elect Steven John Weaver, who retires pursuant to the Articles of Association
of the Company, as a director of the Company.
8. To re-elect David Lindsay, who retires pursuant to the Articles of Association of the
Company, as a director of the Company.
As Special Business:
9. THAT the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised
(in substitution for any existing such powers) for the purposes of section 80 of the
Companies Act 1985 (the Act ) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot
relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of  120,690, provided that this
authority shall expire 15 months from the date of this resolution or at the Company's
next Annual General Meeting if earlier and that the Company may before such expiry
make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be
allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of
such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred hereby has expired
and in this resolution the expression relevant securities  and references to the allotment
of relevant securities shall bear the same respective meanings as in section 80 of the Act.
10.THAT (subject to the passing of resolution 9 above) the directors be and they are hereby
empowered (in substitution for any existing such powers) pursuant to section 95 of the
Act to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous
resolution as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided
that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:
(a) in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of ordinary
shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings of
such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors
may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal
or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any
regulatory body or stock exchange; and
(b) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above up to an aggregate nominal
amount of  75,861, and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General
44 Proxy Form
Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K
For use at the Annual General Meeting of Servocell Group PLC (the Company )
to be held on 3 May 2007 and at any adjournment thereof.
BLOCK CAPITALS PLEASE
I/We, the undersigned,..........................................................................................................
being a member/members of the above-named Company, hereby appoint the
Chairman of the Meeting/ ....................................................................................................
as my/our proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held at 11 00 am at the offices of Lawrence Graham at 190 Strand, London,
WC2R 1JN on 3 May 2007 and at any adjournment thereof.
Signature ..............................................................................................................................
Dated ..................................................................................................................................
Please indicate with an X in the spaces below how you wish your vote to be cast.
For Against Abstain
Ordinary Resolutions
1. Adoption of the Directors' Report and Financial Statements
2. Adoption of Directors' Report on Remuneration
3. Appointment of MRI Moores Rowland LLP as auditors
4. Re-election of Henry Richard Green as a director
5. Re-election of Michael G Hartley as a director
6. Re-election of Simon Colin Powell as a director
7. Re-election of Steven John Weaver as a director
8. Re-election of David Lindsay as a director
Special Resolutions
9. Authorisation to allot relevant securities
10. Limited authorisation to disapply statutory pre-emption rights
11. Updating Articles of Association
Notes
1. To be valid this proxy form must be completed, signed and deposited at the Company's registrars,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL, not later than 48 hours
before the time for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting, together with any Power
of Attorney or other written authority (if any) under which it is executed or a notarially certified
copy of such Power of Attorney or other authority. Any alteration to this form of proxy must be
initialled.
2. In the case of joint holdings the signature of any holder is sufficient but the vote of the senior
holder who tenders a vote (whether in person or by proxy) shall be accepted to the exclusion of
the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority shall be deemed by the order in which the names
stand in the register of members.
3. If you wish to appoint a proxy other than Michael G Hartley, please delete the reference to the
Chairman, insert the proxy's name here and initial the change. A proxy need not be a member of
the Company and must attend the meeting in person to represent you. Unless you insert another
name on the form, the Chairman will act as your proxy. Completion and return of a proxy does not
preclude a member subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
4. Where the form is executed by a corporation, it must be under the hand of an officer or attorney
duly authorised.
5. The Abstain  option is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution, however,
it should be noted that an Abstain  vote is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the
calculation of the proportion of the votes for  and against  a resolution.
47 46
Servocell Group PLC
Report & Accounts 2006
C H A N G I N G T H E W A Y L O C K S W O R K