 This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has 
undertaken during the year.
The members of the Committee are Baroness Noakes DBE (Chairman), Dr Bernard 
Bulkin and Richard Davey whose experience and background are set out on pages 42 
and 43. The board is satisfied that Baroness Noakes and Richard Davey have recent 
and relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee remain 
independent.
The members of the Committee receive updates in financial reporting and the group's 
regulatory framework in various forms throughout the year. The Chairman, the Chief 
Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the Group Financial 
Controller and the external auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the 
Committee. Other members of senior management are also invited to attend as 
appropriate. In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the 
Director of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
The Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the board on the 
Committee's work.
The Committee met four times in 2011/12 and our work focused on four key areas: 
  financial statements and accounting policies; 
  internal controls; 
  oversight of internal and external audit; and 
  the regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
Financial statements and accounting policies
Reviewing the financial statements and accounting policies requires an examination of 
material judgements made in preparing the financial statements. We set out below 
some of the key issues we discussed in respect of 2011/12:
  a provision of  21.5 million in exceptional charges, for the potential non recovery of 
our economic interest in an Operating Services business in Italy;
  the value of goodwill including impairments of  22.9 million to the goodwill in 
respect of three Severn Trent Services businesses; and
  the group's accounting policy for exceptional items and the criteria to determine 
when items would be classified as exceptional.
In reviewing the financial statements, we receive input from the Disclosure Committee 
and Deloitte LLP (Deloitte). The former is chaired by the Finance Director and considers 
the content, accuracy and tone of the financial statements, the Ofwat Annual Return 
and other public disclosures prior to their release.
Deloitte reported to the Committee on their review of the half year interim results and 
on their audit of the year end financial statements.
Internal controls
We receive regular reports from Internal Audit in respect of their work on internal 
controls and we review management letters received from the external auditors. 
We reviewed the processes for and outputs from our enterprise risk management 
process, through which the principal risks and related controls are identified. In 
addition, we monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and assurance 
processes in respect of the key risks.
The Committee in particular reviewed the systems and processes designed to prevent 
fraud and bribery. The Committee also receives a regular log of incidents of fraud or 
bribery which includes the actions taken to investigate and respond to the incidents. 
There were no material incidents during the year.
Further details of our Internal Control Framework, including the main features of our 
internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting 
process, can be found in the Directors' report on page 71.
The Committee assists the board in 
discharging its responsibilities for the 
integrity of the company's financial 
statements, the assessment of the 
effectiveness of the systems of 
internal controls and monitoring the 
effectiveness and objectivity of the 
internal and external auditors. The role 
and the responsibilities of the Committee 
are set out in written terms of reference. 
These can be found on the company's 
website (www.severntrent.com) 
and are also available from the 
Company Secretary.
Governance
Audit Committee
Baroness Noakes DBE 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
52 Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Oversight of Internal Audit and external audit
We are responsible for overseeing the work of the Internal Audit function and also 
for managing the relationship with the group's external auditors. We review the 
performance of the internal and external auditors annually to ensure that they are 
effective and recommend to the board whether the external auditors should be 
reappointed.
The Committee regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external 
auditors in the absence of management. 
Internal Audit
The Director of Internal Audit and his Internal Audit team report on a day to day basis 
to management on the effectiveness of the group's systems of internal controls and 
the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the group's 
assets and resources. This work is summarised and reported to the Committee on a 
regular basis and is a key element of the assurance that the Committee receives on 
the risks and controls in the group.
The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the Internal Audit function are 
reviewed at least annually by the Committee. The Director of Internal Audit is free to 
raise any issues with the Committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
External auditors
Deloitte was appointed auditors of the company in 2005. The Committee reviews 
the auditors' effectiveness each year prior to recommending to the board that they 
be proposed for reappointment at the AGM. Deloitte audit all significant subsidiaries 
of the group.
Annually, the Committee reviews information provided by the external auditors 
confirming their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable 
regulatory requirements and professional standards. The company does not have a 
policy of tendering the external audit at specific intervals but would initiate a tender 
process if there were any concerns about the quality of the audit or the independence 
and objectivity of the auditors. There are no contractual obligations that act to restrict 
the Committee's choice of external auditors.
Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are provided in 
note 7 to the accounts page 91.
Severn Trent Water Limited
The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited result in two other 
reporting requirements to Ofwat and these are also covered by the Committee: an 
annual return on Severn Trent Water Limited's regulatory obligations, known as the 
Ofwat Annual Return; and a statement that underpins the customer charges made by 
Severn Trent Water Limited, known as the Principal Statement. 
In March 2012 the Committee discussed the assurance framework in place for the 
new Ofwat Annual Return process. 
Deloitte makes reports to Ofwat in respect of Severn Trent Water's regulatory 
accounts. The Ofwat Annual Return covers many aspects which are not financial and 
Severn Trent Water Limited appoints engineering consultants, Atkins, to report on 
those aspects. The Committee receives reports from Deloitte and Atkins on their work 
as part of its review of the returns.
Audit Committee attendance in 2011/12
Baroness Noakes 4/4 Richard Davey 3/4
Dr Bernard Bulkin 4/4
The performance of the Committee was included in the external review of the board 
referred to on page 47. No matters requiring action by the Committee arose from 
that review.
Policy on the provision of 
non-audit services
The company has approved a formal 
policy on the provision of non-audit 
services aimed at safeguarding and 
supporting the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors.
The policy sets out the approach to be 
taken by the group when using the 
services of the external auditors, 
including requiring that certain services 
provided by the external auditors are 
pre-approved by the Audit Committee 
or its Chairman.
It distinguishes between those services 
where an independent view is required 
and that should be performed by the 
external auditors (such as statutory 
and non-statutory audit and assurance 
work), prohibited services where the 
independence of the external auditors 
could be threatened and they must 
not be used, and other non-audit 
services where the external auditors 
may be used.
Non-audit services where the external 
auditors may be used include: 
non-recurring internal controls and risk 
management reviews (excluding 
outsourcing of internal audit work), 
advice on financial reporting and 
regulatory matters, due diligence on 
acquisitions and disposals, project 
assurance and advice, tax compliance 
services, and employee tax services.
The approval of the Audit Committee or 
its Chairman is always required if a 
non-audit service provided by the 
auditors is expected to cost more than 
 100,000 or if non-audit fees for the 
year would thereby exceed the amount 
of the audit fee.
Governance - Audit Committee
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
53