 This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has 
undertaken during the year.
The members of the Committee are Baroness Noakes DBE (Chairman), Dr Bernard 
Bulkin and Richard Davey whose experience and background are set out on page 44. 
The board is satisfied that Baroness Noakes and Richard Davey have recent and 
relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee remain 
independent.
The members of the Committee receive updates in financial reporting and the 
group's regulatory framework in various forms throughout the year. The Chairman, 
Chief Executive, Finance Director, Director of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller 
and the external auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the 
Committee. Other members of senior management are also invited to attend 
as appropriate. The Committee regularly holds private discussions with both the 
internal and external auditors.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Director of 
Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advisers.
The Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the board on the Committee's 
work. It met five times in 2012/13 and its work focused on four key areas:
 financial statements and accounting policies;
 risk management and internal controls;
 oversight of internal and external audit; and
 the regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
The Committee's performance was included in the review of the board referred to on 
page 51. No matters requiring action by the Committee arose from that review.
Financial statements and accounting policies
The Committee looked carefully at those aspects of the financial statements 
which required significant accounting judgements or where there was estimation 
uncertainty. These areas are explained in note 4 of the financial statements on 
pages 88 and 89. The Committee paid particular attention to:
 whether further impairments of the goodwill and intangible assets related to 
businesses in Severn Trent Services were properly estimated; 
 whether the assumptions used to calculate the amount of the deficit in the group's 
defined benefit pension schemes were reasonable and in line with those used by 
similar companies;
 the way in which derivative instruments were accounted for and in particular the 
impact of termination options which resulted in the termination of three interest 
rate swaps during the year; and
 the amount of provisions held for tax liabilities which were still the subject of 
discussion with the tax authorities.
The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are described as 
exceptional in the consolidated income statement.
The Committee reviewed the evidence and assumptions underpinning the use of the 
going concern assumption in preparing the accounts and in making the statement 
made in the Directors' report that the company is a going concern.
In reviewing the financial statements, the Committee receives input from the 
Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Finance Director. The work of the 
Disclosure Committee is described further on page 49.
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) reported to the Committee on their review of the half year 
interim results and on their audit of the year end financial statements.
Internal controls
The Committee receives regular reports from Internal Audit in respect of their work on 
internal controls and reviews management letters received from the external auditors.
The Committee reviewed the processes for and outputs from our Enterprise Risk 
Management process, through which the principal risks and related controls are 
identified. The Committee discussed the approach to documenting risk appetite and 
providing guidance to risk owners on the board's tolerance for different types of risk. 
In addition, it monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and assurance 
processes in respect of the key risks.
The Committee assists the board in 
discharging its responsibilities for the 
integrity of the company's financial 
statements, the assessment of the 
effectiveness of the systems of internal 
controls and monitoring the effectiveness 
and objectivity of the internal and external 
auditors. The role and the responsibilities of 
the Committee are set out in written terms 
of reference. These can be found on our 
website (www.severntrent.com) and are 
also available from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
Baroness Noakes DBE 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
54 The Committee reviews the procedures, systems and controls designed to prevent and 
detect fraud and bribery and receives a regular log of incidents of fraud or bribery 
which includes the actions taken to investigate and respond to the incidents. 
There were no material incidents during the year.
The Committee also reviewed the group's approach to IT continuity. Given the 
increasing dependency of the business on technology, this is an area of crucial 
importance and further reviews will be carried out in the next year.
Further details of our internal control framework can be found in the Directors' report 
on page 71.
Internal Audit
The Director of Internal Audit and his team report on a day to day basis to management 
on the effectiveness of the group's systems of internal controls and the adequacy of 
these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the group's assets and 
resources. This work is summarised and reported to the Committee on a regular basis 
and is a key element of the assurance that the Committee receives on the risks and 
controls in the group.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, its plans, level of resources and budget 
are reviewed at least annually by the Committee. The Director of Internal Audit is free 
to raise any issues with the Committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
External auditors
Deloitte were appointed auditors of the company in 2005, pursuant to a competitive 
tender process. Deloitte audit all significant subsidiaries of the group. Annually, the 
Committee reviews the external auditors' audit plan and reviews and assesses information 
provided by them confirming their independence and objectivity within the context of 
applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards. The Committee also 
reviews the auditors' effectiveness, which involves: assessment of the auditors by the 
Committee and key executives; and confirmation that the auditors meet minimum 
standards of qualification, independence, expertise, effectiveness and communication. 
These assessments are carried out prior to the Committee recommending to the 
board that the external auditors be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
The company does not currently have a policy of tendering the external audit at specific 
intervals but would initiate a tender process if there were any concerns about the 
quality of the audit or the independence and objectivity of the auditors. In addition the 
company will comply with the tendering requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012 which will require an audit tender no later than 2020. There are no 
contractual obligations that act to restrict the Committee's choice of external auditors. 
Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are provided 
in note 7 to the accounts on page 93.
Severn Trent Water Limited
The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited require two main 
reporting requirements to Ofwat which are reviewed by the Committee: an annual 
submission on Severn Trent Water Limited's regulatory obligations, known as the 
Annual Regulatory Performance Report together with the Annual Regulatory 
Compliance Statement; and a statement that underpins the customer charges made 
by Severn Trent Water Limited, known as the Principal Statement.
In March 2013 the Committee reviewed the assurance framework in place for the 
Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement process. In November 2012 the Committee 
reviewed the assurance framework for the Principal Statement and the PR14 process.
Deloitte make reports to Ofwat in respect of Severn Trent Water Limited's regulatory 
accounts. The Annual Regulatory Performance Report, which provides an overall 
picture of company performance, covers many aspects which are not financial and 
Severn Trent Water Limited appoints engineering consultants, Atkins, to report on 
those aspects. The Committee receives reports from Deloitte and Atkins on their work 
as part of its review of the Annual Regulatory Returns.
Audit Committee attendance in 2012/13
Baroness Noakes 5/5 Richard Davey 5/5
Dr Bernard Bulkin 4/5   
Policy on the provision of  
non-audit services
The company has approved a formal 
policy on the provision of non-audit services 
aimed at safeguarding and supporting the 
independence and objectivity of the 
external auditors.
The policy sets out the approach to be taken 
by the group when using the services of the 
external auditors, including requiring that 
certain services provided by the external 
auditors are pre-approved by the Committee 
or its Chairman.
It defines the non-audit services that may 
be provided by the external auditors and 
separately sets out those non-audit services 
which are prohibited, since the independence 
of the external auditors could be threatened.
Non-audit services where the external 
auditors may be used include: audit related 
services required by statute or regulation, 
tax compliance and tax planning advice, 
due diligence on acquisitions and 
disposals, services related to fraud, 
corporate responsibility report reviews 
and regulatory support.
The approval of the Committee or its 
Chairman is always required if a non-audit 
service provided by the auditors is expected 
to cost more than  100,000 or if non-audit 
fees for the year would exceed the amount 
of the audit fee.
Furthermore, the procurement of non-audit 
services will need to comply with the 
Utility Contracts Regulations and all services 
requirements over the current EC threshold 
will have to be subject to tender.
Governance Audit Committee
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
55