 shanks. annual report. 2003 19
corporate governance.
Combined code
The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its
business dealings. This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 26, explains how the Group has applied the
provisions of the code of best practice in corporate governance as set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code.  The Board considers that
it has complied with the Code provisions throughout the year except in regard to the notice period of Executive Directors' service
contracts as outlined on page 25.
The board of directors
The Board currently comprises four Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors and their biographies are set out on page 16. The
roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate individuals and the role of the Chairman is Non-executive. The Non-
executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered to be independent of management and free from
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Non-executive
Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby helping to ensure that no one individual or group
dominates the decision making process. Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company's share option
schemes. Mr R B Pointon is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board meets regularly, normally at least ten times a year, and in addition, separate strategic discussions take place. Several
meetings are held at subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and overseas where local operations are reviewed. The Board operates under
agreed terms of reference, which may delegate certain powers to Board Committees. Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the
full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over a defined limit, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years if eligible, and all Non-executive Directors are appointed
initially for a three year term. Any new Director appointed to the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity
after their appointment.
On appointment, Directors are given a comprehensive introduction to the Group's operations, including visits to principal sites and
meetings with operating management. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible
for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition, Directors are
entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Company's expense.
Audit committee
The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference. It is chaired by Mr R C Biffa and comprises the Non-executive
Directors (see page 16). Normally, it meets three times a year. The external auditors and the Executive Directors are regularly invited to
attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors' advice without the presence of the Executive Directors. The
Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group. This includes the appointment,
fees and independence of the external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, reviews of the half-year and annual financial
statements, internal control procedures including compliance with the Turnbull Committee's guidance, accounting policies, compliance with
accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr R B Pointon and comprises the Non-executive Directors (see page 16). The Committee
determines the Company's policy on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the Executive Directors. It also determines the
terms on which Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), executive and SAYE share options are awarded to employees. In exercising its
responsibilities the Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Chief Executive
about its proposals. The Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 26 contains particulars of Directors' remuneration and interests in the
Group's shares. 
Nomination committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr I M Clubb and comprises the Non-executive Directors (see page 16). It is responsible for
making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession planning. 20 shanks. annual report. 2003
corporate governance.
continued
Pensions
During the year the pension arrangements for UK employees were changed. The final salary scheme was closed to new members with
effect from 1 September 2002 and new money purchase arrangements have been provided in its place. The benefits for existing final
salary scheme members were not changed. The assets of both the final salary and money purchase schemes are held separately from
those of the Group, are invested by independent professional investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company. Three
trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member nominated trustees were appointed in 2001. Senior
employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution pension benefits. In the Netherlands, employees participate in a compulsory
collective transport industry wide pension scheme which provides benefits up to a certain level of pay. Senior Dutch employees earning in
excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension scheme also participate in a defined contribution
arrangement for the excess amount.
Relationship with investors
The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors,
analysts, press and other parties. The Company is pleased to welcome both private and institutional shareholders to its Annual General
Meeting and to discuss any topic shareholders may wish to raise. The Group's website www.shanks.co.uk provides additional information
for shareholders and the general public. 
Internal control
The Board confirms that a continuing formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the Group has
been in place for the financial year 2002/3 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts. This includes reviewing
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures. This process is regularly reviewed by the Group and
subsidiary boards and complies with the Turnbull guidance. This approach ensures that internal control and risk management measures
are embedded into the operations of the business and any areas requiring improvement are addressed.
The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control during the period covered
by the annual report and accounts. The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material avoidable
loss or misstatement of financial information. The key features of the control system are as follows:
(i) regular visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local board or management meetings;
(ii) regular Executive Committee meetings of the Group's most senior managers and Executive Directors;
(iii) formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units with procedures for reporting compliance therewith,
for identifying weaknesses and for taking corrective action;
(iv) comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business sector approval, reviewed on a regular basis, with performance
measured against budgets and explanations sought for significant variances;
(v) a formal clearly defined framework for controlling and approval of capital expenditure and investment programmes, with cash
authorisation limits and post investment appraisals along with contract authorisation levels;
(vi) identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business assessed on a continuing basis at both operating board
and Group Board level;
(vii) appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to meet their responsibilities;
(viii) an internal Management Systems department which undertakes periodic examination of written business and operational procedures
and identifies non-compliances; and
(ix) an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 21.
The Group publishes separate annual reports on Health and Safety and on Environmental Performance. The independent Environmental
Advisory Board also publishes its own annual report. Further details about these reports can be found on pages 13 to 15 and copies are
also available on the Group's website www.shanks.co.uk. shanks. annual report. 2003 21
Statement of directors' responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors' report on page 27, is made to distinguish for
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains or losses and cash flows
of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 the Directors have:
(i) used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied;
(ii) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
(iii) ensured that all applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
(iv) prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Group's website is the responsibility of the Directors. The uncertainty regarding legal requirements in
relation to the website is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries and legislation in the
United Kingdom governing the preparation and distribution of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The auditors' report on the financial statements set out on page 27 confirms that the scope of their report covers the provisions of the
Combined Code that are specified for their review by the Financial Services Authority.