 31 Annual report and accounts for the 
year ended December 31, 2005
Shire plc 
Audit Committee report
Membership
The members of the Committee as at December 31, 2005 were 
David Kappler (Chairman), Barry Price, Ronald Nordmann and Patrick
Langlois. Mr Kappler , Dr Price and Mr Nordmann served as members of
the Committee throughout 2005 and Mr Langlois became a member of
the Committee upon his appointment to the Board in November 2005.
Each of the members of the Committee has been determined by Shire's
Board to be an Independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes 
of The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined
Code). Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the
independence of members of the Audit Committee. 
Mr David Kappler chairs the Committee. The Board is satisfied that 
Mr Kappler , in his capacity as Chairman of the Committee, has recent
and relevant financial experience. The Board has determined that 
Mr Kappler is the Committee's financial expert for the purposes of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. Mr Kappler was a Director of Camelot Group
plc from 1996 to 2002 and he serves as a Non-Executive Director at
HMV Group plc and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc. Additionally, 
he is Non-Executive Chairman at Premier Foods plc. Mr Kappler is 
a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
The members of the Committee are chosen from amongst the Non-
Executive Directors of the Company who are independent for the
purposes of the Combined Code and the NASDAQ rules and are selected
on the basis of their knowledge and experience of financial matters and
financial reporting. Committee members hold office for an initial period of
two years, subject to continuing as a Director of the Company . Thereafter
they may hold office for such duration as determined by the Board.
Details of the fees paid to members of the Committee are set out in the
Directors' Remuneration Report on page 39.
Role of Committee
The T erms of Reference of the Committee have been approved by the
Board and are available for review on Shire's website. The key functions
of the Committee under its T erms of Reference are to:
  monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company,
including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results
announcements and any other corporate announcement relating 
to the Company's financial performance; 
  ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation
of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's
financial position; 
  have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation (to 
be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting) 
in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and
remuneration of the external auditor and to assess, at least annually,
the objectivity and independence of the external auditor; 
  review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from the
external audit, and any matters the external auditor may wish to
discuss; 
  set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit
services by the external auditor with a view to preserving the external
auditor's independence and objectivity; 
  establish procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of
complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, internal
accounting controls or auditing matters; 
  review at least annually the effectiveness of the Company's internal
control system in the overall context of the Company's risk
management system; 
  oversee the Company's anti-fraud programmes and controls 
and to oversee the investigation and remediation of any alleged 
or suspected fraud; 
  monitor and review the internal operational audit programme,
consider the findings of internal operational audit reviews and
management's response to them; and
  review compliance with treasury policy. 
The Committee reports to the Board on any matter on which it considers
that action is required and makes recommendations for steps to be
taken. The T erms of Reference of the Committee give it authority to
investigate any activity within its T erms of Reference and to be
responsible for the resolution of disagreements between management
and the auditor regarding the Company's financial reporting. The
Committee is also authorised to seek any information it requires from
any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties and to call
any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee.
The Committee met on six occasions in 2005. Each meeting was
attended by all members of the Committee. At the invitation of the
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer , the Chief Financial Officer and
the Group Financial Controller attended all of the Committee's meetings
in 2005. In addition, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Risk
Officer and Head of Internal Audit attended each of the four quarterly
meetings at which risk management systems and internal audit
programs were reviewed. 
In accordance with its T erms of Reference, the Committee held a
number of private meetings with the lead partner from the Company's
external auditors and the Company's Chief Internal Auditor during the
course of the year without any executive member of the Board in
attendance. The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and
open discussions between the Audit Committee members and the
Chief Internal Auditor and the external lead audit partner separately
from the main sessions of the Audit Committee (which were attended
by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller). 
Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by auditor
The Committee has adopted formal policies and procedures in relation
to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor ,
which were most recently revised in February 2006. The principal
purpose of these policies and procedures is to ensure that the
independence of the external auditor is not impaired. 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (and accordingly the Committee's policy)
prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Company by
the external auditor , including:
  bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records 
or financial statements of the Company;
  design and implementation of financial information systems;
  appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-in-
kind reports; and
  actuarial or internal audit outsourcing services.
Other types of audit and non-audit services may be performed by the
external auditor if the work is either specifically pre-approved by the
Committee or the work falls within the Committee's schedule of pre-
approved services. The Committee's pre-approval policy covers three
categories of work - audit services, audit-related services and tax
services. If the proposed services to be provided by the external auditor
fall within a category of pre-approved services, they may be provided
by the auditor without being specifically approved by the Committee,
6420 Annual Report 2005.qxd  28/4/06  17:44  Page 31 Audit Committee report
provided that management does not need to exercise any discretion 
in determining whether a proposed service falls within one of the 
pre-approved categories. In all cases, the Committee is notified of 
any pre-approved service that is provided by the auditor . 
Any service proposed to be provided by the auditor which is not a 
pre-approved service must be approved in advance by the Committee,
which will consider whether the independence, skills and experience 
of the auditor make it a suitable supplier of the proposed service.
Committee activities
During 2005, the business discussed by the Committee included 
the following:
1 Financial statements
  the financial disclosures contained in the Company's quarterly
results announcements; 
  various accounting matters, including the application of the
Company's critical accounting policies and new accounting
standards in the context of the financial disclosures, including the
acquisition of TKT , the impact of the Health Canada suspension 
of ADDERALL XR, the impact of fair value accounting for share-
based compensation and new Inventory Management Agreements
with key US wholesalers;
  a review of the Company's preparations for the adoption in 2005 
of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), including the
approval of the Company's accounting policies under IFRS. The
Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Company's publication
in September 2005 of its half yearly financial statements and full-year
comparative financial statements for 2004, as prepared in
accordance with IFRS; and
  quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the
Committee and discussed. The reports addressed the following 
key areas:
  auditor responsibility and independence;
  significant accounting estimates and judgements made by
management; 
  audit adjustments proposed and whether they were corrected 
by management; and
  significant accounting policies and unusual transactions.
2 Internal financial control and risk management systems
  the Company's risk management strategy, its internal audit strategy,
its plan and progress in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Company's system of
internal control during the year;
  revisions to the policy for the management of treasury were reviewed
and recommended for approval to the Board;
  quarterly reports on treasury investments and compliance with
treasury policy were discussed;
  approval of the insurance renewal programme for 2005/6;
  monitoring of the Group's whistle-blowing and fraud policies; and
  the Company's internal controls over financial reporting.
3 External auditor
The Committee reviewed the performance of the external auditor
following the completion of the 2004 audit process, which resulted in
the Committee resolving to recommend that the Company submit a
resolution to the 2005 Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte
& T ouche LLP as the Company's external auditor . At forthcoming
meetings in 2006, the Committee will conduct a formal review of the
performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit
process in connection with the 2005 financial year audit.
Throughout the year , the Committee has kept the objectivity and
independence of the external auditor under review and has obtained
reports from the Company's external auditor describing all relationships
between the auditor and the Company. The Committee has remained
satisfied that neither the level of non-audit services nor the nature of the
work performed by the external auditors has in any way impaired their
objectivity and independence. Details of the fees paid to the external
auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
David Kappler
Chairman of the Audit Committee
32 Annual report and accounts for the 
year ended December 31, 2005
Shire plc 
6420 Annual Report 2005.qxd  28/4/06  17:44  Page 32