 59
2. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES
The Committee discharged its duties as set out below:
Financial Results
  Reviewed and recommended to the Board for
approval, the quarterly and statutory financial
results of the Company and its subsidiaries,
including related announcements to ensure
adherence to listing requirements, the relevant laws,
regulations and applicable accounting standards as
well as highlighted significant issues and any
accounting judgments to the Board.
Corporate Assurance
  Reviewed the annual audit plan of Corporate
Assurance to ensure adequate scope and coverage
of the activities of the Group, including the risk-
based methodology used to prioritise the review of
the auditable areas, to ensure that all critical areas
are addressed.
  Reviewed the resource requirements of Corporate
Assurance to ensure it can perform effectively and
efficiently.
  Reviewed the audit reports, audit recommendations, and management
response to these recommendations and the implementation status.
Where relevant, the Committee has directed action to be taken by
management to rectify and improve the system of internal controls and
procedures.
  Reviewed the effectiveness of Corporate Assurance.
External Audit
  Reviewed the external auditors' audit plan and discussed their audit
approach in areas of emphasis.
  Reviewed the external auditors' report on the audit of the statutory
financial statements and their review of the unaudited quarterly financial
statements of the Group.
  Reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external
auditors in meeting their responsibilities before recommending to the
Board their reappointment and remuneration.
  Reviewed and adopted changes to the policy on the provision of non-
audit services by the external auditors and considered the external
auditors' provision of such services to ensure that their independence
and objectivity is maintained.
  Met separately with the external auditors to ascertain the quality and
reliability of the accounting function and to consider whether there were
significant risk, internal controls or other concerns that should be
brought to the attention of the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The Board of Directors is pleased to present the Report of the Audit Committee (Committee ) and its activities for the financial year under review.
1. AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND MEETINGS
The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors are:
Bernard Anthony Cragg - Chairman
Dato' Mohamed Khadar bin Merican
Kuok Khoon Ho
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least four (4) times in each financial year. At least two (2) members must be present and the majority
of the members present must be independent directors. The Company Secretary shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
During the financial year, the Committee conducted five (5) meetings which were attended by all members. The Group's external auditors and
senior members of the Corporate Assurance Division (internal audit) as well as certain designated members of senior management also
attended all the meetings on invitation of the Committee. The Committee also met with the external auditors and Corporate Assurance in two
(2) separate private sessions respectively during the financial year. 60
Related Party Transactions
  Reviewed proposed related party transactions prior
to recommending to the Board for approval, to
ensure that the transactions are on ordinary
commercial terms based on the Group's practices
and policies and on arms' length, not on terms
which are more favorable to the related party than
is generally available to the public and that the
transactions are not detrimental to the minority
shareholders.
  Reviewed the procedures for securing the
shareholders' mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions.
  Reviewed the quarterly report issued by Corporate
Assurance to ascertain that the procedures
established in the shareholders' mandate to monitor
Recurrent Related Party Transactions are complied
with.
Share Option Scheme
  In compliance with Appendix 9C, Paragraph 25 and
in furtherance of the Committee's obligations under
Chapter 8, Paragraph 8.21A of the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
the Committee verified the allocation of options
pursuant to the criteria set out in the 2003
Management Share Incentive Scheme and 2003
Employee Share Option Scheme for the financial
year ended 31 January 2005.
Others
  Reviewed the adequacy of the charter of the
Committee.
  Conducted an assessment of the Committee's
effectiveness in meeting their responsibilities.
  Reviewed the adequacy of the Group's Code of
Business Ethics, prior to recommendation to the
Board for approval.
3. CORPORATE ASSURANCE
The Group has an internal audit function known as Corporate Assurance to
assist the Committee to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk
management, control and governance processes through a systematic and
disciplined approach. The Head of Corporate Assurance has direct access to
and independently reports to the Committee Chairman.
To achieve these aims, Corporate Assurance performs a variety of reviews
such as financial, operational and information systems audits and other
reviews to ensure that the Group's resources are efficiently and effectively
utilised, its activities comply with the relevant laws and regulations, and that
its interests in business transactions are protected and assets safeguarded.
Corporate Assurance adopts a risk-based approach towards the planning
and conduct of audits, which is consistent with the Group's established
framework for designing, implementing and monitoring of its control systems.
Other than scheduled reviews, Corporate Assurance also undertakes special
reviews such as governance enhancement, systems implementation controls
as well as approval procedures for related party transactions.
4. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Function of the Audit Committee
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with respect
to its oversight responsibilities. The Committee reviews and monitors the
integrity of the Group's financial reporting process, its management of risk
and system of internal control, its audit process as well as compliance with
legal and regulatory matters, its own code of business conduct, and such
other matters, that may be specifically delegated to the Committee by the
Board from time to time.
Composition and Appointment
The Committee will consist of at least three (3) Board members, the
majority of whom shall be independent directors. At least one member of
the Committee shall meet any of the following required qualifications:
  be a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants; or
  have at least three (3) years' working experience and have fulfilled the
specifications in Part I and Part II of the 1st Schedule of the Accountants
Act 1967; or
  have a degree/masters/doctorate in accounting or finance and at least
three (3) years' post qualification experience in accounting or finance; or
Audit Committee Report ASTRO ALL ASIA NETWORKS plc Annual Report 2005
61
  have at least seven (7) years' experience as a chief
financial officer of a corporation or having the
function of being primarily responsible for the
management of the financial affairs of a
corporation.
All the current members of the Committee fulfill the
above criteria.
The Board on the recommendation of the Nomination
and Corporate Governance Committee shall appoint the
members of the Committee. Each member of the
Committee may serve for a period of up to 3 years,
extendable by no more than 2 additional 3-year periods,
so long as the members continue to be independent.
The members of the Committee shall elect a Chairman
from amongst their number who shall be an
independent director.
Authority of the Committee
The Committee is duly authorised by the Board to:
  investigate any activities within its charter
  seek any information that it requires from any
employee of the Group and to be provided with full
and unrestricted access to such information
  maintain direct communication channels with the
external and internal auditors
  obtain external legal or independent professional
advice if necessary
  have access to the Group's resources, at the
Group's expense
  convene meetings with the external auditors without
the executive members of the Committee, if
necessary
  recommend steps or proposed courses of action,
where required, to the Board on matters arising
from the discharge of the Committee's duties and
responsibilities
Responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee is responsible for the following:
Financial Reporting and Compliance
Review the annual, interim and any other related formal financial statements
and announcements of the Group prior to Board approval and public release
for quality of disclosure, and compliance with accounting standards and
legal requirements; review other matters relating to the accounting, auditing,
financial reporting practices and procedures of the Group;
Related Party Transactions
Review any related party transactions entered into by the Group to ensure
that the transactions have been conducted on the Group's normal
commercial terms and that the internal control procedures relating to such
transactions are sufficient.
Risk Management and Internal Control
Review the adequacy of the Group's internal operational processes to
identify key organisational risks and the systems or processes in place to
monitor and manage these risks; review the adequacy of the Group's internal
controls, financial, auditing and accounting organisations and personnel and
policies and compliance procedures with respect to business practices.
Internal Audit
Review the plan, scope of the internal audit function including the authority,
impartiality, proficiency and adequacy of resources to carry out its function;
review the results of its reports, findings and recommendations and action
taken on its recommendations; review effectiveness and performance of
audit staff and approve appointment or termination of senior staff.
External Audit
Nominate the firm to be retained as external auditors including the terms of
engagement and remuneration; review the external auditors' provision of
non-audit services, plans, scope of annual audit or other examinations
including their annual audit report and accompanying reports to
management and response or other reports of their reviews and assistance
given by the Group's employees to the external auditors.