 52 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
This report has been prepared by the Audit Committee (the Committee ) on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of paragraph 
C.3.3 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith. 
The report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities. 
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Committee operates under T erms of Reference which can be found on the Company's website and which are available on application to the 
Company Secretary at the registered office. They are reviewed annually by the Committee and changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
The main duties of the Committee set out in its T erms of Reference are: 
   monitoring the integrity of the Company's Accounts including its Annual Report and Accounts and its Interim Announcement;
   reviewing the consistency of accounting policies, including any changes;
   keeping under review the effectiveness of the Company's internal control and risk management systems;
   reviewing the Company's arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting 
or other matters;
   monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company's outsourced internal audit function;
   reviewing the annual audit plan and receiving the Auditors' reports and the Company's response;
   considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Company's external Auditors;
   overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, including (but not limited to) approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence 
and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the Auditors as a whole, including 
the provision of any non-audit services; and
   reporting to the Board identifying any matters on which the Committee considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations 
as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it considers it to be necessary. 
The Committee reviews its own performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committee's activities.
MEMBERSHIP
Throughout 2006, the Committee comprised the three independent Non-Executive Directors. Mr. D. A. Haxby was the Chairman and Mr. P . H. Blackburn 
and Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghi were members.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr. D. A. Haxby is a Chartered Accountant (FCA) and is considered by the Board to have significant recent and relevant 
financial experience. He was a Partner in Arthur Andersen for 18 years (1977-1995) holding senior management positions in the UK Practice from 1985 
to 1995. Since then he has served as Audit Committee Chairman of a number of UK listed companies. The other members of the Committee have a wide 
range of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 36. The Board makes appointments to the Committee. 
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
MEETINGS
The Committee is planned to meet four times a year. In 2006 it met four times and all members of the Committee attended each meeting. The Finance 
Director attended all four of the scheduled meetings and the external Auditors two and they have direct access to the Committee Chairman. The Chairman 
of the Board and the other Executive Directors attend the meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. The external Auditors 
had a confidential discussion with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors being present on one 
occasion in 2006. Ernst & Y oung who provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group are invited to all meetings to present their reports.
WORK OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2006 as follows:
   Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Statement - at its meetings in August 2006 and March 2007, the Committee reviewed the financial reporting 
issues and judgements contained in the Company's Interim Announcement and its Annual Report and Accounts respectively. At the March 2007 meeting 
the Committee received a report from the external Auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention;
   accounting policies - at its November 2006 meeting the Committee reviewed the application of the Group's Goodwill Impairment Review Policy. 
The Committee is updated regularly on actual and pending changes to Accounting Standards; 
   internal controls and risk management - in November 2006 and March 2007, the Committee considered detailed reports from the Group Finance 
Director on the operation of, and issues arising from, the Group's internal control procedures, together with observations from the external Auditors. 
It also monitored the effectiveness of the Group's risk management process, which considers the key risks, both financial and non-financial, facing 
the Group and the effectiveness of the Group's controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks;
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
_8_SIG_ar06_middle.indd   21 05/04/2007   11:09:43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
53 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
WORK OF THE COMMITTEE CONTINUED
   in March 2006 the Committee reviewed its T erms of Reference and Non-audit Services Policy. Following the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
as the Group's tax advisers and other preferred suppliers having been identified for due diligence services, Deloitte & T ouche's role is now solely that 
of Group Auditor for the whole of the SIG Group together with any auditor permitted services which the Group considers appropriate;
   external Auditors' work and relationship - the Committee reviewed the external Auditors' proposed audit plan in November 2006; considered its 
pre year-end issues report in December 2006; reviewed the fees paid for audit and for non-audit services in March 2007; and assessed the external 
Auditors' independence and objectivity in November 2006 and March 2007;
   internal audit function - in April 2006 Ernst & Y oung LLP were appointed to provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group. The Committee 
agreed a proposed approach and work plan for 2006. During the year Ernst & Y oung undertook work on the Group's control self assessment procedures 
and some special project work. The Committee received reports from Ernst & Y oung at its meetings in August 2006, November 2006, December 2006 
and March 2007; and 
   Whistleblowing  policy - in March 2007 the Committee reviewed the whistleblowing  policy under which employees may in confidence notify 
the Company of any concerns, inter alia matters involving financial reporting. It also reviewed the procedures for investigating and resolving any such 
concerns. A copy of the whistleblowing policy is available on the Company's website.
INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITORS
The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Group external Auditors. 
Both the Audit Committee and the external Auditors, Deloitte & T ouche LLP , have safeguards in place to avoid the Auditors' independence and objectivity 
being compromised.
The Group policy with regard to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external Auditors, which was operated during 2006, is based on the 
principles that they should only undertake non-audit services where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service and where 
the provision of non-audit services does not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors' independence and objectivity. It categorises such 
services between:
   Auditor permitted services - those services which it is acceptable for the Auditors to provide and the provision of which can be engaged without referral 
to the Committee (e.g. regulatory and other specialist financial reporting; accounting advisory services);
   Auditor excluded services - those engagements that the Committee and the Board do not consider appropriate for the Auditors to undertake 
(e.g. selection, design or implementation of major financial systems; provision of internal audit services or risk management assessment and monitoring 
services); and
   Auditor authorised services - those services for which the specific approval of the Committee is required before the Auditors are permitted to provide 
the service (e.g. complex tax planning and structure advice, corporate finance and M&A activity).
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to 
the commencement of any  Auditor Authorised Services . The Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditors. 
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee and is approved by the Board.
Details of the amounts paid to the external Auditors for audit and non-audit services in 2006 are set out in Note 4 to the Accounts on page 67. 
The external Auditors report to the Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best 
practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team. Deloitte & T ouche have formally confirmed 
their independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by these financial statements. Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level 
of fees, independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte & T ouche LLP , the Committee recommends (and the Board 
agrees) that a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & T ouche LLP as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. 
On behalf of the Board
DAVID HAXBY
Chairman of the Audit Committee
13 March 2007
_8_SIG_ar06_middle.indd   22 05/04/2007   11:09:43