 4 6   ASTRO ALL ASIA NETWORKS plc
Audit Committee Report
The Board is pleased to present the Report of the Audit Committee 
(Committee ) for the financial year ended 31 January 2008 in 
accordance with Paragraph 15.16 of the Listing Requirements. 
The Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the Group's 
financial reporting process, in addition to reviewing the Group's risk 
management process and system of internal controls. It also reviews 
the Group's audit process, compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements, code of business conduct and any other matters that are 
specifically delegated by the Board.
1 . 	 T E R M S 	 O F 	 R E F E R E N C E
The Committee is duly authorised by the Board to:
  review the Group's significant accounting policies
  investigate any activities within its charter
  seek any information that it requires from any employee of the 
Group and to be provided with full and unrestricted access to 
such information
  maintain direct communication channels with the external and 
internal auditors 
  obtain external legal or independent professional advice if 
necessary 
  have access to the Group's resources, at the Group's 
expense
  convene meetings with the internal and external auditors 
without the executive members of the Committee, if 
necessary
  recommend steps or proposed courses of action, where 
required, to the Board on matters arising from the discharge 
of the Committee's duties and responsibilities
2 . 	 C O M P O S I T I O N 	 A N D 	 M E E T I N G S
 The Committee comprises three Board members, all of whom 
fulfill the qualifying criteria prescribed by the Listing Requirements 
of Bursa Securities. Members of the Committee including its 
Chairman are appointed by the Board on the recommendation 
of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. In 
accordance with the Committee's Charter, each member of the 
Committee may serve for a period of up to three years, extendable 
by no more than two additional three-year periods, so long as the 
members continue to be independent. 
 The Committee is chaired by Bernard Anthony Cragg and current 
members comprise Dato' Mohamed Khadar Merican and Chin Kwai 
Yoong, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors. 
 The Committee met five times during the financial year. Details 
of members and their attendance at meetings are included on  
page 42. The Group's external auditors, senior members of the 
Corporate Assurance Division (internal audit) and certain designated 
members of senior management also attended the meetings at the 
invitation of the Committee. The Company Secretary acts as the 
Secretary of the Committee. 
 The Committee also met with the external auditors twice and 
Corporate Assurance once in separate sessions during the 
financial year without the presence of management. In addition, 
the Committee members either collectively or individually met with 
the external auditors and Corporate Assurance during the financial 
year. 
3 . 	 S U M M A R Y 	 O F 	 A C T I V I T I E S
 During the financial year ended 31 January 2008, the Committee 
reviewed the statutory financial statements, quarterly financial 
reports and any other related formal financial statements and 
announcements of the Group for quality of disclosure and 
discussed significant issues to ensure that compliance with 
applicable approved accounting standards and legal requirements 
were met. The Committee also reviewed the external auditors' 
report on the Group's statutory financial statements and quarterly 
financial reports prior to making a recommendation to the Board 
for approval and public release thereof. 
 The Committee had also performed an assessment of the external 
auditors' independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including 
taking into consideration the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditors before recommending their re-appointment and 
remuneration. The Group has a policy on the provision of audit and 
non-audit services by the external auditors, the general principle 
being that the audit firm should not be requested to perform non-
audit services that may impair the objectivity and independence 
of the audit firm. An analysis of the audit and non-audit services 
including the fees incurred is provided by the external auditors 
and reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. The 
Audit Committee has discussed the matter of audit independence 
with the external auditors and is satisfied that the independence 
of the audit firm is not impaired by the provision of the non-audit 
services. The Audit Committee has also received and reviewed 
written confirmation from the external auditors that they continue 
to be independent and objective within the meaning of applicable 
Malaysian and United Kingdom regulatory and professional 
requirements. ASTRO ALL ASIA NETWORKS plc   4 7
AudIT COmmITTEE REpORT
 The Committee verified the allocation of options to eligible 
employees to ensure compliance with the bye-laws of the 2003 
Employee Share Option Scheme during the financial year under 
review. The Committee also reviewed the adequacy of its charter, 
taking into account changes to the applicable laws, regulations, 
auditing principles and best practices, as well as conducted 
an ongoing self-assessment of its effectiveness in meeting its 
responsibilities on a quarterly basis.  
 The Chairman of the Committee reports regularly to the Board 
on the activities of the Committee. In addition to those described 
above, other activities included:
	 Financial	Reporting	and	Compliance
  Review of matters relating to the accounting, auditing, financial 
reporting practices and procedures of the Group.
	 Related	Party	Transactions
  Review any related party transactions entered into by the Group 
to ensure that the transactions have been conducted on the 
Group's normal commercial terms and that the internal control 
procedures relating to such transactions are sufficient.
	 Risk	Management	and	Internal	Control
  Review the enterprise risk management process implemented 
by the Group and results of the process to facilitate the 
identification, evaluation, monitoring and management of 
risks.
  Review adequacy of the Group's internal operational processes 
to identify key organisational risks and the systems in place to 
monitor and manage these risks.
  Review adequacy of the Group's policies and procedures 
relating to internal control, financial, auditing and accounting 
matters such that it complies with our business practices.
	 Internal	Audit	   Review adequacy of the Corporate Assurance Charter and 
effectiveness of Corporate Assurance.
  Review the plan, scope of the Corporate Assurance function 
including the authority, impartiality, proficiency and adequacy 
of competency and resources to carry out its function.
  Review results of its reports, findings and recommendations 
and action taken on the recommendations.
  Review effectiveness and performance of audit staff and 
approve appointment or termination of senior staff.
  Review the results of the external assessment performed on 
the Corporate Assurance Division. 
	 External	Audit
  Nominate the firm to be retained as external auditors 
after taking into consideration the terms of engagement, 
independence of the firm and its remuneration for audit and 
non-audit services.
  Review the external auditors' audit plan, scope of annual audit 
or other examinations including:
- the annual audit report and accompanying reports to 
management.
- reports of their other examinations.
- assistance given by the Group and the Group's employees 
to the external auditors.
	 Other	Responsibilities
  Review the management quarterly report on new laws 
and regulations, material litigation and enterprise risk 
management.
4 . 	 C O R P O R A T E 	 A S S U R A N C E
 The Group has an internal audit function, known as Corporate 
Assurance, to assist the Committee in evaluating and improving 
the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance 
processes through a systematic and disciplined approach. The 
Head of Corporate Assurance reports directly to the Chairman of 
the Committee. 
 Corporate Assurance performs a variety of reviews such as 
financial, operational and information systems audits. Other reviews 
are also performed to ensure that the Group's resources are 
utilised effectively and efficiently. Additionally, Corporate Assurance 
ensures that the Group's activities comply with the relevant laws 
and regulations, and that its interests in business transactions are 
protected and assets safeguarded.  
 Corporate Assurance adopts a risk-based methodology in 
planning and conducting audits by focusing on key risks auditable 
areas. This approach is consistent with the Group's established 
framework for designing, implementing and monitoring of 
its control systems. Corporate Assurance works closely with 
the Enterprise Risk Management Division to monitor the risk 
governance framework and the risk management processes of 
the Group to ensure their effectiveness. Corporate Assurance also 
undertakes special reviews such as governance enhancement, 
systems implementation controls as well as approval procedures 
for related party transactions.