 46   ASTRO ALL ASIA NETWORKS plc
The Board is pleased to present the Report of the Audit Committee 
(Committee ) for the fi nancial year ended 31 January 2009 in 
accordance with Paragraph 15.16 of the Listing Requirements. 
The Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the Group's 
fi nancial reporting process, in addition to reviewing the Group's risk 
management process and system of internal controls. It also reviews 
the Group's audit process, compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements, code of business conduct and any other matters that are 
specifi cally delegated by the Board.
1. TERMS OF REFERENCE 
 The Committee is duly authorised by the Board to:
  review the Group's signifi cant accounting policies
  investigate any activities within its charter
  seek any information that it requires from any employee of the 
Group and to be provided with full and unrestricted access to 
such information
  maintain direct communication channels with the external and 
internal auditors 
  obtain external legal or independent professional advice if 
necessary 
  have access to the Group's resources, at the Group's 
expense
  convene meetings with the internal and external auditors 
without the executive members of the Committee, if 
necessary
  recommend steps or proposed courses of action, where 
required, to the Board on matters arising from the discharge 
of the Committee's duties and responsibilities
2. COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS
 The Committee comprises three Board members, all of whom 
fulfi ll the qualifying criteria prescribed by the Listing Requirements 
of Bursa Securities. Members of the Committee including its 
Chairman are appointed by the Board on the recommendation 
of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. In 
accordance with the Committee's Charter, each member of the 
Committee may serve for a period of up to three years, extendable 
by no more than two additional three-year periods, so long as the 
members continue to be independent. 
 The Committee is chaired by Bernard Anthony Cragg and current 
members comprise Dato' Mohamed Khadar Merican and Chin Kwai 
Yoong, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors. 
 The Committee met fi ve times during the fi nancial year. Details of 
members and their attendance at meetings are included on page 
42. The Group's external auditors, senior members of the Corporate 
Assurance Division (internal audit) and certain designated members 
of senior management also attended the meetings at the invitation 
of the Committee. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of 
the Committee. 
 The Committee also met with the external auditors twice and 
Corporate Assurance once in separate sessions during the 
fi nancial year without the presence of management. In addition, 
the Committee members either collectively or individually met with 
the external auditors and Corporate Assurance during the fi nancial 
year. 
3. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES
 During the fi nancial year ended 31 January 2009, the Committee 
reviewed the statutory fi nancial statements, quarterly fi nancial 
reports and any other related formal fi nancial statements and 
announcements of the Group for quality of disclosure and 
presentation and discussed signifi cant issues to ensure that 
compliance with applicable approved accounting standards 
and legal requirements were met. The Committee also reviewed 
the external auditors' report on the Group's statutory fi nancial 
statements and quarterly fi nancial reports prior to making a 
recommendation to the Board for approval and public release 
thereof. 
 The Committee has also performed an assessment of the external 
auditors' independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including 
taking into consideration the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditors before recommending their reappointment and 
remuneration. The Group has a policy on the provision of audit and 
non-audit services by the external auditors, the general principle 
being that the audit fi rm should not be requested to perform non-
audit services that may impair the objectivity and independence 
of the audit fi rm. An analysis of the audit and non-audit services 
including the fees incurred is provided by the external auditors 
and reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. The 
Audit Committee has discussed the matter of audit independence 
with the external auditors and is satisfi ed that the independence 
of the audit fi rm is not impaired by the provision of the non-audit 
services. The Audit Committee has also received and reviewed 
written confi rmation from the external auditors that they continue 
to be independent and objective within the meaning of applicable 
Malaysian and United Kingdom regulatory and professional 
requirements.
 The Chairman of the Committee reports regularly to the Board 
on the activities of the Committee. In addition to those described 
above, other activities included:
 
 Financial Reporting and Compliance
  Review of matters relating to the accounting, auditing, fi nancial 
reporting practices and procedures of the Group.
 Risk Management and Internal Control
  Review the Group risk profi le and the status of the enterprise 
risk management process implemented by the Group 
and results of the process to facilitate the identifi cation, 
assessment, evaluation, monitoring and management of 
risks.
  Review adequacy of the Group's internal operational processes 
to identify key organisational risks and the systems in place to 
monitor and manage these risks.
Audit Committee Report ASTRO ALL ASIA NETWORKS plc   47
Audit Committee Report
  Review adequacy of the Group's policies and procedures 
relating to internal control, fi nancial, auditing and accounting 
matters such that it complies with our business practices.
 Internal Audit (Corporate Assurance)
  Review adequacy of the Corporate Assurance Charter and 
effectiveness of Corporate Assurance.
  Review the plan, scope of the Corporate Assurance function 
including the authority, impartiality, profi ciency and adequacy 
of competency and resources to carry out its function.
  Review results of its reports, fi ndings, recommendations, 
management response and action taken on the 
recommendations.
  Review effectiveness and performance of audit staff and 
approve appointment or termination of senior staff and note 
the reasons for staff resignations.
 External Audit
  Nominate the fi rm to be retained as external auditors 
after taking into consideration the terms of engagement, 
independence of the fi rm and its remuneration for audit and 
non-audit services.
  Review the external auditors' audit plan, scope of annual audit 
or other examinations including:
- the annual audit report and accompanying reports to 
management.
- reports of their other examinations as well as management 
letters and the response from management .
- assistance given by the Group and the Group's employees 
to the external auditors.
 Related Party Transactions
  Review related party transactions entered into by the Group 
to ensure that the transactions have been conducted on the 
Group's normal commercial terms and that the internal control 
procedures relating to such transactions are suffi cient.
 Employee Share Option Scheme 
  Review the verifi cation performed by Corporate Assurance 
on the allocation of options to eligible employees to ensure 
compliance with the bye-laws of the 2003 Employee Share 
Option Scheme for the fi nancial year under review.
 Others
  Review the management quarterly report on new laws 
and regulations, material litigation and enterprise risk 
management.  
  Review and recommend the Corporate Governance Statement, 
Statement on Internal Control and Report of the Audit 
Committee for inclusion in the Company's Annual Report and 
the Circular to Shareholders on Related Party Transactions, 
prior to Board approval.
  Review adequacy of the terms of reference of the Committee 
taking into account changes to the applicable laws, regulations, 
auditing principles and best practices.
  Conduct an ongoing self-assessment of its effectiveness in 
meeting its responsibilities on a quarterly basis. 
4. CORPORATE ASSURANCE 
 The Group has an internal audit function, known as Corporate 
Assurance, led by the Head of Corporate Assurance who reports 
directly to the Chairman of the Committee. Corporate Assurance 
assists the Committee in evaluating and improving the effectiveness 
of risk management, control and governance processes through 
a systematic and disciplined approach. This is accomplished 
by the provision of assurance and consulting services through 
a programme of regular reviews and appraisals based on the 
Strategic Review Plan that is approved by the Audit Committee 
annually. 
 Corporate Assurance adopts a risk-based methodology in planning 
and conducting audits by focusing on key risks auditable areas. 
This approach is consistent with the Group's established framework 
for designing, implementing and monitoring of its control systems. 
Corporate Assurance also works closely with the Enterprise Risk 
Management Division and the external auditors to monitor the risk 
governance framework and the risk management processes of the 
Group to ensure their effectiveness.  
 During the fi nancial year, the major areas of work performed by 
Corporate Assurance and reported to the Audit Committee are as 
follows:
  Implemented the Strategic Review Plan for the fi nancial 
year ended 31 January 2009 encompassing audit coverage 
of all signifi cant business areas based on identifi cation and 
evaluation of the respective risks and control environment.  
  Performed a variety of reviews such as fi nancial, operational 
and information systems audits covering principally the 
Astro pay-TV, radio and content operations of the Group's 
business. The respective operations in interactive content, 
talent management as well as Group corporate functions 
such as human resource and information technology 
operations were also reviewed and reported to the Audit 
Committee. The results of the reviews performed by Corporate 
Assurance were communicated to both Management and the 
Committee together with the implementation status of audit 
recommendations. 
  Conducted follow-up on previous recommendations made 
by the external auditors as well as Corporate Assurance to 
ensure that appropriate corrective actions were implemented 
on a timely basis or within agreed timelines to assure that key 
risk and control concerns were being addressed effectively.
  Performed special reviews such as governance enhancement, 
systems implementation controls, verifi cation of share option 
scheme allocations as well as approval procedures for related 
party transactions.
 The operational costs incurred for maintaining Corporate Assurance 
for the fi nancial year amounted to approximately RM2.5 million.