 36/37
statement of directors' responsibility 
in relation to the accounts
SkyePharma annual report 2003
corporate governance
The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates as necessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, and the financial statements have been
prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the
financial position of the Company and the Group at any time and from which accounts can be prepared to comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They are also responsible for ensuring the operation of systems of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Group
and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements are set out in the auditors' report on page 49.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003 are included in the Annual Report 2003, which is published by the Company
in hard-copy printed form and on the Company's website on the Internet. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the Annual Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
This may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation
may be different.
Ian Gowrie-Smith 
Executive Chairman 
5 May 2004 
The Board
The Board of SkyePharma PLC is responsible for the Group's system of corporate governance and internal control and is accountable for
its activities throughout the world. The Board comprises three Executive and six Non-executive Directors. The roles of Chairman and
Chief Executive are distinct and are held by different people. The role of Non-executive Directors is to bring independent judgement to
Board deliberations and decisions. The Executive and Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by
shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association whereby one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year . 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able, if necessary, to take independent
professional advice at the Company's expense. Directors receive induction and on-going training as appropriate. The Board meets
regularly throughout the year. It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates specific
responsibilities to committees, as described below. The Non-executive Directors hold regular meetings without the executives present.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they request a meeting, or have concerns which contact through the
normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate. The Board is instituting a formal and rigorous process for the annual
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The Board considers all of the Company's Non-executive Directors to be independent with the exception of Mr Yamamoto by reason of
the business relationship between Kowa Company Limited, of which he is a director, and the Group. The Board considers that the
remaining Non-executive Directors are independent both in judgement and character and that they carry out their duties in an
independent manner and provide constructive challenge to decisions.
The Board has considered the length of time which Sir Michael Beavis has served as a Non-executive Director . He has been on the
Board of the Company that formed SkyePharma since 1995 although he was first appointed to the Board in 1989. In the opinion of the
Board he is considered to be independent and, as the Senior Non-executive Director of the Company, continues to bring an impartiality
of mind to the Board's decision making processes.
Management and Board Committees 
The Group Executive Committee is responsible for the day to day management of the Group. It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer
and comprises the Executive Directors and other Senior Managers. The Committee generally meets monthly and informs the Board of
key issues via the Chief Executive Officer .  The Audit Committee reviews the half year and full year results and the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts prior to their submission
to the Board and considers any matters raised by the external auditors. The Committee reviews the cost-effectiveness, independence
and objectivity of the external auditors, pre-approves all permitted non-audit expenditure incurred with them and reviews the company's
internal financial controls. Dr Jerry Karabelas chairs the Committee. It meets formally at least three times a year with the external auditors
in attendance.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year . It considers and reviews the Group's policy on executive remuneration and
establishes and approves the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives and is responsible for the policy and operation
of the SkyePharma Share Option Schemes. The Committee is chaired by Sir Michael Beavis. The Remuneration Report is presented on
pages 38 to 48 of the Report and Accounts.
The Nomination Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and recommends which
Non-executive Directors should be invited to retire, having regard to the changing needs of the Board as a whole. Mr Ian Gowrie- Smith
chairs the Committee. The Committee meets as required.
The members of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are detailed on page 34. 
Accountability and control 
SkyePharma operates, and attaches importance to, clear principles and procedures designed to achieve the accountability and control
appropriate to a science-based business operating internationally in a highly regulated business sector . SkyePharma has established
an organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority. All Group employees are required to
adhere to specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures. The identification and appraisal of risks is carried out through the annual
process of preparing business plans and budgets and through the close monitoring of operations. 
Financial results and key operational and financial performance indicators are reported regularly throughout the year and variances
from plans and budgets are investigated and reported. The Group has a system of high-level financial control procedures which are
supplemented by detailed procedures at each operating entity. Compliance with these procedures is monitored by the corporate office
supplemented by external audit.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management as they
operated during the year. The Board receives regular reports on areas of significant risk to the Company, and on related internal
controls. In addition to its consideration of these reports the Board reviews annually the overall framework and effectiveness of controls.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going Concern 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate cash resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Company is committed to ongoing communication across the shareholder base, whether to institutional investors, private or
employee shareholders. This is achieved through annual and interim reports, other trading statements and the Annual General
Meeting. The website at www.skyepharma.com contains corporate and customer information which is updated on a regular basis. 
The Combined Code
In June 1998 the London Stock Exchange issued the final version of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice ( the
Code').
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. During 2003 the Board considers that the Company
complied with all relevant principles and provisions of the Code covered by the annual report and accounts.
Following publication in 2003 of the Higgs Review on non-executive directors and the Smith Report on audit committees, the Code has
been amended and the revised provisions are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 ( the new Code').
During 2003 the Board reviewed its policies in the area of corporate governance and is implementing a number of changes. The Board
will continue to review its policies and procedures and take whatever steps it considers appropriate in respect of the new Code for the
current financial year when it reports to shareholders in 2005.
Dr Jerry Karabelas
Chairman, Audit Committee 
5 May 2004
SkyePharma annual report 2003