 Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2012 08
Risk management
The attention of prospective investors is drawn to the fact that ownership 
of ordinary shares will involve a variety of risks which, if they occur, may 
have a materially adverse effect on the Group's business and financial 
condition and the market price of the ordinary shares could decline.
Risk Description and mitigating actions
Failure of physical 
infrastructure or 
services of the 
Company
The Company operates with a well established IT support infrastructure which is fundamental to the smooth 
operation of our business. Service interruptions and equipment failures may expose the Company to financial 
loss and damage its reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial 
condition and results of operations. The Company's business includes the ownership and management 
of gas meters. If the Company fails to register a meter(s) on its IT system, wrongly classifies a meter 
or it loses track of a meter(s) within the system then this could also have a material adverse effect.
The Company's IT infrastructure is subject to failure from a variety of causes largely outwith the Company's 
control, including human error, equipment failure, power loss, failure of services related to the internet 
and telecommunications provided by the Company, physical or electronic security breaches, as well as 
factors outwith the Company's control, such as sabotage, vandalism, system failures of network service 
providers, fire, earthquake, volcanic ash, flood and other natural disasters, water damage, fibre optic cable 
cuts, power loss not caused by the Company, improper building maintenance by the landlords of the 
buildings in which the IT infrastructure is located and terrorism.
To mitigate against these risks the Company has deployed a fully redundant failover infrastructure which 
is mirrored in real time with all primary nodes. The mirrored servers are hosted on a secondary site at a Tier 1 
data centre. A full business continuity plan is in place and is tested regularly. This plan facilitates the use 
of secondary office place which is fully equipped with computers, phones and other office equipment. 
Full disaster recovery failover to a new office environment can occur within four hours. 
Dependency 
on key clients, 
terms of contracts, 
financing costs and 
performance levels
In its UKMA business, the Company is largely dependent on a small number of key gas suppliers with which 
it has entered into commercial contracts. Whilst there are termination provisions within such contracts which 
are designed to protect the Company in the short term, loss of one or more of these key clients could have 
a material adverse effect on the future growth of the Company's business. In addition, approximately 90% 
of the UKMA business revenue at the end of December 2012 was derived from consumers who are clients 
of suppliers which had contracted with the Company for meter asset management . The balance of the 
revenue was derived from consumers who had changed gas supplier to non-contracted suppliers. 
In the event that such non-contracted supplier used another MAM and management of the gas meter 
was changed to the new asset manager, then the Company would suffer a loss in revenue and would 
not benefit from the contract termination provisions outlined above.
The key contracts with gas suppliers oblige the Company to fulfil certain performance obligations. In particular, 
the Company is required to provide meter assets for an agreed price. If the Company enters into such 
contracts on uneconomic terms or was unable to secure appropriate levels of asset finance on suitable 
terms then this would have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
In addition, should the Company be unable to meet an appropriate level of service in its UKGC business 
this may damage its reputation and could reduce the confidence of the Company's clients and users 
of its services, impairing its ability to retain existing clients and users and attract new clients and users.
To mitigate against these risks the Company has now put in place full MAM service contracts that cover over 
80% of the industrial and commercial market and over 40% of the domestic market and maintain strong 
relationships with the balance. These contracts ensure that either redemption penalties or recurring rentals 
will be payable on the vast majority of occasions where a meter point moves from one supplier to another. 
Strict service levels are monitored daily throughout all core business functions to ensure the Company 
meets and exceeds customer expectations.  Overview Corporate governance Business review Financial statements
Annual report and accounts 2012 Smart Metering Systems plc 09
Risk Description and mitigating actions
Unforeseen delays 
and cost overruns 
when rolling out 
new and upgrading 
existing products 
and services
Management effort and financial resources are being employed by the Company in rolling out the ADM  
device. In addition, the Company periodically upgrades and replaces its IT infrastructure. Although the 
Company has budgeted for expected costings, additional expenses in the event of unforeseen delays, 
cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes and increases in the price of equipment 
may negatively affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Company has considerable experience in forecasting and managing project implementation timetables. 
However, it may in the future experience unforeseen delays and expenses in connection with a particular 
project or initiative.
The Company 
may experience 
accelerated 
demand for 
its products 
and services
The Company expects to be able to meet its current capital expenditures from internal resources and 
debt facilities. In the event that the Company wins a large order for ADM  devices and/or new smart 
meters then the Company may consider supporting the working capital requirements for such order(s) 
by way of an issue of new equity or debt finance or a combination of both.
If the Company is unable to raise the necessary financing it could adversely affect the Company's ability 
to expand its business.
The Company also maintains close relationships with funding partners to give the Directors confidence 
future growth can be funded.
The Company 
could be subject to 
increased operating 
costs, as well as claims, 
litigation or other 
potential liabilities, 
in connection with 
the security and 
control of the 
Company's systems 
and the personal 
data of users
The Company relies on systems and personnel in the Company's locations to physically secure IT infrastructure 
and user data. Any accidental or intentional actions, including computer viruses and unauthorised access, 
as well as other disruptions could result in increased operating costs or claims. The Company may incur 
significant additional costs to protect against such disruptions, the threat of security breaches (whether 
physical or electronic) or to alleviate problems caused by such interruptions or breaches.
Smart Metering Systems plc is forging a strong reputation for reliable secure IT systems. Our IT systems 
are designed to be highly resilient against the most serious levels of disruption. Disaster recovery facilities 
are in place to provide a fully functional alternate location for operations with access to all production 
data. All production data is backed up live (24/7) to a highly secure offsite facility. Disaster events from 
fire, communications failures, etc are planned for and solutions are tested. Business continuity insurance 
is in place to provide protection against costs of such events.
A party who is able to breach the physical premises and/or electronic security measures of the Company's 
systems could damage the Company's equipment and/or misappropriate either its proprietary information 
or the personal information of the Company's users and cause interruptions or malfunctions in its operations. 
If a third party were able to misappropriate data held on the Company's system then the Company could 
be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities. Whilst security remains one of the Company's 
highest priorities, there can be no certainty that the security of its systems will not be breached and the 
information of the Company's clients and customers put at risk. Any security breach (whether physical 
or electronic) could have a serious effect on the Company's reputation and could lead to a loss of 
clients and/or existing clients seeking to claim damages. This could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company's business, financial condition and result of operations or future growth.
If the Group is not 
able to effectively 
manage its growth, 
its operations could 
be damaged and 
profitability reduced
The Group's business and operations have experienced rapid growth. If the Group fails to effectively manage 
this growth in the future, its operations could be harmed. This future growth could place significant demands 
on the Group's operational and financial infrastructure. If the Group is unable to effectively manage its growth 
its operations could be harmed and profitability reduced. The growth of the Group's sales and profits in the 
future will depend, in part, on its ability to expand its operation through the roll out of new products, the exchange 
of existing gas meters and the launching of its services into new markets and geographies. Furthermore, in 
order to manage its planned expansion, it will need to continually evaluate the adequacy of its management 
capability, operational procedures, financial controls and information systems. Accordingly, there can be no 
assurance that the Group will be able to achieve its expansion goals on a timely or profitable basis.