 23203-04   Proof 6  6 May 2014 10:45 AM
26
Source BioScience plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
Corporate Governance Statement
Principles statement
The Board of Directors as a whole is collectively accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance 
and is committed to achieving compliance with the principles of corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (June 2010 and as updated September 2012) as issued by the Financial Reporting Council ( FRC').
The Board is pleased to report full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (June 2010 and as updated 
September 2012) for the year ended 31 December 2013 and set out below is a statement of how the principles were 
applied.
Board of Directors
Board responsibilities
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors. The Board's main responsibilities are to provide leadership of the 
Company and Group within a framework of controls for managing risk, to approve the strategic objectives and to ensure the 
necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable the Group to meet those objectives. The Board, which 
meets approximately ten times a year, has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include:
   setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium term projections;
   reviewing operational and financial performance;
   approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure;
   reviewing the Group's systems of financial control and risk management;
   ensuring that appropriate management development and succession plans are in place;
   reviewing the quality management, environmental and health and safety performance of the Group;
   approving appointments to the Board, appointment of the Company Secretary, policies relating to Directors' remuneration 
and the severance of Directors' contracts;
   ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders; and
   approval of interim and annual financial statements.
Board composition
The Board of Directors currently comprises three Executive and two Non-Executive Directors. Biographical details of the 
Board of Directors are set out on pages 20 to 21.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and this is documented and reviewed annually. The Chairman 
is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. It is the Chief Executive Officer's 
responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
Between them, the Directors have a considerable breadth of experience and a range of complementary skills. Each brings an 
independent judgement to bear on matters of strategy, performance, research and development, resources and standards of 
conduct.
Appropriate training and resources are made available to assist the Directors in the discharge of their duties and each has 
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. All Directors have access to independent professional advice 
at the expense of the Company, where they deem it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors. Each Director 
receives a full and tailored induction on joining the Board.
Board papers contain sufficient information to enable the Directors to form a balanced overview of all significant matters 
to be considered. Such papers are prepared and distributed in advance of the meetings at which these matters are to be 
discussed.
Source Bio Annual Report 2013 - proof 6.indd   26 07/05/2014   09:03:53 23203-04   Proof 6  6 May 2014 10:45 AM
27
www.sourcebioscience.com
LSE Code: SBS
Board and Committee meetings
The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings and the attendance records of each Director during the year is 
indicated below.
 
 
Scheduled 
Board 
meetings
Audit
Committee
meetings 
Remuneration
Committee
 meetings
Nomination
Committee
meetings
Number held 10 3 2 1
Number attended
Mr Laurie Turnbull 10 3 2 1
Dr Nick Ash 10      
Dr Nick Leaves 10      
Mr Rob Bakewell 10      
Dr Sue Foden 10 3 2 1
  Indicates not a member of that Committee during 2013.
Commitment of the Chairman
Details of the Chairman's professional commitments are included in his biography. The Board is satisfied that these other 
commitments are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman of the Company which are based 
around a commitment of approximately 50 days per annum.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Board considers each of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.  
Neither Mr Turnbull nor Dr Foden:
   has been an employee of the Group within the last five years;
   has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Group;
   receives remuneration other than Director's remuneration;
   has close family ties with any of the Group's advisors, Directors or senior employees;
   holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies; or
   represents a significant shareholder;
   in addition, Mr Turnbull has not served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his first election;
   Dr Foden was appointed to the Board in 2003 and has served ten years since the date of her first election. To apply best 
practice, she will offer herself for re-election at the next AGM and annually thereafter as described on page 22.
Evaluation of the Board and its Committees
The Board has established a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
its principal Committees and individual Directors. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director conducts the annual 
performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of all Directors. 
Dialogue with key shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its key shareholders, in 
particular by communicating regularly throughout the year and encouraging them to participate in the AGM, which all the 
Directors normally attend. The Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders, should this be desired, 
and each communicates regularly with the Group's financial advisor and broker. The Chairman ensures that the views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board has made disclosures regarding the Group's strategy, objectives, resources, risks and financial performance and 
position within the Business Review as set out on pages 6 to 19.
Governance
Source Bio Annual Report 2013 - proof 6.indd   27 07/05/2014   09:03:53 23203-04   Proof 6  6 May 2014 10:45 AM
28
Source BioScience plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Committees of the Board
Certain Board responsibilities are delegated to Committees of the Board.
Senior Management Team 
The senior management team comprises the Executive Directors together with the divisional and functional heads. The 
senior management team is chaired by Dr Ash and normally meets once a month to discuss the performance of the Group's 
business units and other issues as they arise in the course of the Group's activities. 
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the senior management team:
   implementation of the strategies and policies of the Company as determined by the Board;
   development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term objectives 
and priorities established by the Board;
   monitoring of the operational and financial results against plans and budgets;
   prioritising the allocation of financial, technical and human resources; and
   developing and implementing risk management systems.
Audit Committee
The work of the Audit Committee is addressed in more detail on pages 29 to 32 by its Chairman, Mr Turnbull.
Remuneration Committee
The work of the Remuneration Committee is addressed in more detail on page 45 by its Chairman, Dr Foden.
Nomination Committee
Source BioScience recognises the importance of diversity in the board room and currently has Dr Sue Foden as its Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. The importance of achieving an appropriate gender balance throughout the Group is 
also recognised; the senior management team currently comprises nine members, two of whom are women.
The Nomination Committee has not set, and does not intend to set, a specific target for the number of female members 
of the Board and wish to continue to appoint the best candidate available for any particular role. However, in setting the 
criteria for selection of candidates, for both executive and non-executive roles, the Group is conscious that it is possible to 
inadvertently discourage the successful candidacy of women and intends to bear this in mind for all future appointments and 
to continue to have regard to the benefits of diversity, including as to gender.
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of new Directors to the Board and makes recommendations on 
Board composition and balance. The Nomination Committee meets as often as necessary to fulfil this function.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee have been documented and agreed by the Board of Directors and are 
available from the Company Secretary. The key terms are as follows:
   to review and evaluate the Board structure, size, balance of skills and composition and to make recommendations to the 
Board with regard to adjustments that are deemed necessary;
   consider succession planning for Directors, in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, other senior 
management and membership of Audit and Remuneration Committees; and
   prepare a description of the roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment, and be responsible for identifying 
and nominating candidates for approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Dr Foden (Committee Chairman) and Mr Turnbull. 
Source Bio Annual Report 2013 - proof 6.indd   28 07/05/2014   09:03:53