 11
SPG Media Group PLC   Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 14 to 15 describe how the Board has applied the principles set out in the Combined Code ( the Code') 
issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003. The Code is part of the listing rules as issued by the Financial 
Services Authority. The Company has substantially complied with the provisions of the Code, except where the Board has 
determined that they are inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company.
The Board
The Company is headed by the Board, which is made up of two executive directors and three non-executive directors. 
Biographical detail on each director is shown on page 2. The Chairman of the Board is Stephen Davidson who has been 
Chairman since 18 April 2005. With the appointment of Adrian Howe the Board have identified him as the senior non-
executive director. 
The Board met 8 times during the year and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the consideration of 
the Board. The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group. The Board sets 
and monitors the Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining development 
possibilities and formulating policy on key issues.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and determining strategy in conjunction with the Chief 
Executive. The Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day running of the Group's businesses supported by divisional 
managing directors.
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive directors in order to discuss performance 
of the Board, its committees and individual directors. A performance review has been carried out.
All directors are required to stand for re-election at least once every three years. The terms and conditions of appointment 
of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at our registered office.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Board and its committees are supplied with papers to enable them to consider 
matters in good time for meetings and to enable them to discharge their duties. Procedures are in place for the directors, 
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary at the Company's expense, as 
required under the code.
The Board has established a number of committees with mandates to deal with specific aspects of its business. The table 
below details the membership and attendance of individual directors at Board and committee meetings held during the 
year ended 31 March 2007.
  Full board  Remuneration  Audit Nomination 
   committee committee committee
Number of meetings in the year 8 1 2 1
    
KK Appiah 5 - 1
2
 -
SJ Davidson 8 1 2 1
CJM Haines 8 1 2 1
KJ Sadler 8 - 2
2
 1
1.  Ken Appiah has attended all Board meetings since his appointment.
2.  By invitation and for part of meetings.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises Christopher Haines (chairman) and Stephen Davidson. Under rule B.2.1 the 
remuneration committee should comprise two independent non-executive directors. On the resignation of Mr C Blake the 
Group did not comply with this rule until a suitable replacement could be found. Adrian Howe joined the committee on 4 
May 2007 and on his appointment the Group has complied with the Code. The remuneration committee is responsible for 
determining the service contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors, details of which are 
set out in the Remuneration Report. The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available for inspection on 
request. SPG Media Group PLC   Annual Report and Accounts 2007
12
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprised Stephen Davidson (chairman), Christopher Haines and Keith Sadler. The nomination 
committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. The committee evaluates 
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of that evaluation, prepares a description of 
the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. The terms of reference of the nomination committee are 
available for inspection on request.
 
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises Christopher Haines (chairman) and Stephen Davidson. The committee met twice in the 
year with the external auditors in attendance. Under C.3.1 of the Code the audit committee should comprise at least two 
independent directors. This was not complied with following the resignation of Mr C Blake until a suitable replacement 
could be found. On the appointment of Adrian Howe the Group has complied with the Code. Adrian Howe, on his 
appointment, took over as chairman of the audit committee from 4 May 2007. 
The committee is responsible for reviewing the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts and it oversees the 
controls necessary to ensure the integrity of the fi nancial information reported to shareholders. The audit committee 
discusses the nature, scope and fi ndings of the audit with the external auditors, and monitors the independence of the 
external auditors. The committee is also responsible for considering the appointment or re-appointment of external 
auditors and the audit fee. The terms for the audit committee are available for inspection on request. 
The audit committee discharges its responsibilities through receiving reports from management and advisers, working 
closely with the auditors, carrying out and reviewing risk assessment and taking counsel where appropriate in areas when 
required to make a judgement.
The audit committee has considered the need for a separate internal audit function but due to the size of the Group and 
procedures in place to monitor both trading performance and internal controls, it was concluded the costs of a separate 
internal audit department would outweigh the benefi ts.
The audit committee reviews arrangements by which staff may raise possible improprieties in matters relating to fi nancial 
reporting. The Group has made staff aware of its whistleblowing policy which is published on the Group's intranet and 
company handbook. Notifi cation can be made anonymously to the Chief Executive Offi cer, Finance Director or Chairman.
The audit committee is made up of the non-executive directors. The committee was chaired by Christopher Haines 
who, under the defi nition within the Code is not regarded as independent. Christopher brought a great deal of relevant 
experience to the audit committee together with his knowledge and understanding of the business. Adrian Howe has been 
appointed chairman of the Audit Committee from 4 May 2007. The details of their experience is given within the directors 
biographies on page 2.
The auditor's fees for the year are  63,000 (2006:  60,000).
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined that non-audit work will not 
be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear effi ciencies and value added benefi ts to the Company. The 
Audit Committee annually reviews the remuneration received by the auditors for audit services and non-audit work. The 
outcome of this review was that the performance of this work by the auditors was the most cost effective and also that no 
confl ict existed between such audit and non-audit work.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness. 
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Under the Code there is a requirement that the directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal 
controls. This extends the existing requirement in respect of internal fi nancial controls to cover all controls including 
fi nancial, operational, compliance and risk management.
A formalised process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Group has been 
operating throughout the period under review. In addition to meeting the Code's requirement for an annual review of 
the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Group has established an embedded process for managing 
business risks. An integral part of each business's planning and review process is to identify their risks, the probability of 
those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks. The information is  1
SPG Media Group PLC   Annual Report and Accounts 2007
continually communicated upwards and enables the senior management to ensure that these risks are being managed on 
an effective and timely basis.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
The key controls in place have been reviewed by the Board and comprise the following:
The preparation of comprehensive annual budgets and business plans integrating both financial and operational 
performance objectives and plans, with an assessment of the associated business and financial risks, for each area of 
the business. The overall Group budget and business plan is subject to approval by the Board.
Weekly revenue reports are produced and reviewed by management.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for each business unit and reviewed by the Board. This includes 
reporting against key performance indicators and exception reporting.
An organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility. Authorisation limits have been set throughout 
the Group and these are reviewed on a regular basis. 
 
Shareholder relationships
The Company is active in communicating with both its institutional and private shareholders. Effective communication 
with institutional shareholders and analysts is established through presentations involving the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Finance Director. The Company operates a corporate website at www.spgmedia.com where information is available to 
potential investors and shareholders. 
The Board will use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private shareholders and seek their participation. 
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting has been circulated more than 20 working days prior to the meeting and is 
included in this report on page 40.
Health and safety
It is the policy of the Group to conduct all business activities in a responsible manner free from recognised hazards and 
to respect the environment, health and safety of our employees, customers, suppliers, partners, neighbours and the 
community at large.
Going concern
After making relevant enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group as a whole has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
By order of the Board
K K Appiah
Secretary
29 June 2007
 
 
 
 