 30 Corporate governance statement
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BEST PRACTICE
Acambis has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1
of the Combined Code published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council, except in those areas
highlighted in the  comply or explain' section presented on page 27.
STATEMENT OF APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE
Acambis has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying
with the Code of Best Practice, as reported above. Further explanation of how the principles have been applied 
is set out below and, in relation to Directors' remuneration, in the remuneration report.
THE BIA CODE OF BEST PRACTICE (BIA CODE)
Acambis, as a member of the BIA, has also complied with the principles in the BIA Code and maintains and develops
procedures to support compliance with its specific provisions. The BIA Code was introduced in 1999, is obligatory
for all BIA members, and includes principles and provisions relating to corporate governance matters, access to
external advice, confidentiality, dealings in a company's shares and standards of public announcements. It is intended
to operate by reference to the particular circumstances of bioscience companies in support of the Combined Code.
THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four independent Non-executive Directors.
It meets, in person, at least six times a year, with additional meetings as required. The Chairman meets during the
year with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present. During 2004, the Board met
eight times. It oversees and approves Acambis' business and commercial strategy, major transactions, financial
statements and operating and capital expenditure budgets, and monitors progress. The information provided 
to the Board includes strategic and operational reviews, management accounting summaries and specific reports
that provide details in respect of the ongoing running of the business. The Executive Directors are fully involved
with the management of the Group's strategic direction and exercise control at all levels. A formal schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board exists and is available on the Company's website. All Directors have access 
to professional advice and training at the Company's cost and to the services of the Company Secretary in the
furtherance of their duties. The Board ensures that all newly appointed Directors receive a formal induction
including, but not limited to, latest analyst reports, shareholder perception reports, Board and committee minutes,
meetings with senior management and internal corporate literature. The Board delegates the day-to-day
responsibility of managing the Group to a number of committees, details of which are set out below. Written
terms of reference exist for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. There were available during
the year, and are now published on the Company's website.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is currently made up of all the independent Non-executive Directors and since 25 March 2004
has been chaired by Ross Graham. It examines and reviews, on behalf of the Board, internal financial controls, financial
and accounting policies and practices, the form and content of financial reports and statements, compliance with
corporate governance best practice and the appointment and work of the external auditors. In 2005, the Audit
Committee will review the tax strategy for the Group. The Audit Committee reviews non-audit services provided 
by the external auditors on an ongoing basis to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
In advance of any non-audit service engagements, the Audit Committee reviews whether objectivity and
independence may be impaired and where appropriate engages alternative external accountants. The Audit
Committee reviews the type of service and fee level in this respect. The policy to ensure that the external auditors
do not provide prohibited services was formalised in early 2005. The Audit Committee reports to the Board on these
matters. The external auditors, PwC, have provided the Company written assurances under Statement of Auditing
Standards 610 (revised)  Communication of audit matters to those charged with governance' and Independence
Standards Board Standard No. 1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees', that they are independent
accountants with respect to the Company, within the meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements
and the SEC, and that the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and the audit staff is not impaired.
The CEO, the CFO and the external auditors may be in attendance at meetings. The Audit Committee meets,
as a minimum, four times a year and at least once during the year without any Executive Directors present.
During 2004, the Audit Committee met eight times.
The following statement describes the main principles of corporate governance and
how they have been applied by Acambis. 31
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is made up of all of the independent Non-executive Directors and is chaired 
by Alan Dalby. It determines, on behalf of the Board, the Group's policy for executive remuneration and the
individual remuneration packages for the Executive Directors. The CEO may be in attendance at meetings, except
when his own remuneration is being considered. The Committee met four times in 2004, and has access to
professional advice in the furtherance of its duties. During 2004, the Remuneration Committee appointed Towers
Perrin to provide a Group-wide review of remuneration policy and strategy. Its report will be considered during
2005. The remuneration report is set out on pages 32 to 41.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman and all of the independent Non-executive Directors and 
is chaired by Alan Smith. It has responsibility for proposing to the Board any new appointments of both Executive
and Non-executive Directors. The Chairman would not chair the Nominations Committee if it were dealing 
with the appointment of the successor to the Chairman. During 2004, the Nominations Committee met four times.
The CEO may be in attendance at Nominations Committee meetings.
With respect to the process followed to appoint new Directors to the Board, it is the Nominations Committee's
policy to appoint an executive search agency to conduct an international search. The Board provides a role
specification. Candidates are selected by the executive search agency, from which a shortlist is prepared.
Interviews are conducted by Non-executive and Executive Directors as appropriate. The Nominations Committee
will review succession plans during 2005; this did not take place during 2004 given the number of changes to the
Board seen during the year.
During the year, the Board made appointments into four positions: CEO, CFO and two Non-executive Directors.
Each appointment was managed by the Nominations Committee with the assistance of an executive search agency,
ensuring that an open and fair process was followed in each case such that the best candidates were selected.
OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT - EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Board delegates operational management to an Executive Committee made up of the Executive Directors.
Members of the senior management team attend this meeting. It is chaired by the CEO, meets on a monthly 
basis and makes recommendations to the Board.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has applied principle C.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks the Group faces. This process has been in place since the start of 2000 and is
in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system
manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The Board regularly reviews the risks to which the business is exposed and the controls in place to mitigate
those risks. It delegates the operational management of the business risk process to the Executive Directors, who
in turn have put in place a specific working group comprising senior management from different areas of the
business to carry out reviews on a periodic basis. From 2005, the Operations Committee, which has oversight of
the day-to-day operational activities of Acambis, will review the work of that group.
In compliance with provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal control. The Board's monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, operational
and compliance controls and risk management. It is based, principally, on reviewing reports from management to
consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant
weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Board has also performed
a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report considering all significant aspects of internal control
arising during the year, including the need to have an internal audit function. The Audit Committee assists the
Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
As of the date of this Annual Report, based on the assessment of the Board of Directors, there were no changes
in the Group's internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect adversely these controls
subsequent to the date of their evaluation.
RISK FACTORS
As with any business, there are risks and uncertainties relevant to Acambis' business. These have been qualified 
by reference to factors that affect the majority of businesses, factors that are common to businesses in the
biotechnology sector, factors common to businesses working in vaccines, and those specific to Acambis. This
information is detailed within  Risk management' on pages 18 and 19 of this Annual Report.