 Corporate governance - at 31 December 2002
In June 1998 the London Stock Exchange published the Combined Code (now adopted by the Financial Services Authority). This code is based
on the report of the Hampel Committee and introduced a requirement that Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
controls. This requirement extends the Directors' review to cover all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well
as financial controls. Section 1 of the code is applicable to listed companies and the extent of the Company's compliance with the code is
detailed below.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Code of Best Practice
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five code provisions throughout the accounting period. Save for the
limited exceptions outlined below the Company has complied throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2002 with the provisions
set out in Section 1 of the Code. 
A majority of the Company's non-executive Directors is not independent, as recommended by the Code of Best Practice Provision A.3.2, as
four of them are associated with the Company's major shareholder (Steven Fink, Thomas Kalinske, Randolph Read and Jeffrey Green). In
addition, the remuneration committee is not wholly independent as recommended by the Code Provision B.2.2 as it includes Steven Fink along
with two independent non-executive Directors, Barrie Clark and Peter Magowan. 
The subscription agreement dated 1 August 1996 with ET Training LLC provides a right for ET Training LLC to appoint four Directors to the
Board whilst it remains the owner of at least 45% of the issued share capital. Due to the nature of this agreement, the full Board headed by
the Chairman forms the nomination committee. The four non-executive Directors who are Knowledge Universe nominees in accordance with
this subscription agreement have no service contracts and have not been appointed for specified terms, as required by the Code Provision
A.6.1. 
Throughout the period to 29 April 2002 Jon F Chait acted as Chairman and Chief Executive. The reason for this was not publicly justified as
recommended by Code Provision A.2.1. On 29 April 2002 the posts were separated with Jon F Chait becoming non-executive Chairman and
Richard Barfield being appointed as Chief Executive Officer.
We are reviewing the recent Higgs and Smith pronouncements in the UK surrounding corporate governance. We will look to adopt relevant
changes, where possible, to our governance framework over the next 12 months in light of these recommendations.
A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 20. Below is a brief description of the role of the
Board and its committees followed by a statement regarding the Group's system of internal control and a statement on going concern.
The workings of the Board and its committees
The Board
At 31 December 2002 the Board comprised six non-executive Directors and two executive Directors and is responsible to shareholders for the
proper management of the Group. It meets regularly, reviewing trading performance, setting and monitoring strategy and examining major
capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs:
Audit committee
The audit committee which comprises three non-executive Directors, Steven Fink, Barrie Clark and Peter Magowan, is chaired by Steven Fink
and meets not less than twice annually. The committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's auditors. By invitation, the meetings are
also attended by the other Directors.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the half year and annual accounts before their
submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the
shareholders. Its remit includes a review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal financial control, based on information received
from both internal and external sources including the quarterly internal control and risk assessment report. In addition, the audit committee
10 Corporate governance Spring Group plc Annual Report and Accounts - 31 December 2002 Spring Group plc Annual Report and Accounts - 31 December 2002 Corporate governance 11
receives assurance annually from the heads of all operating units as to the adequacy of controls in their respective operations through internal
control questionnaires. The committee remit also includes a review of the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of
the external auditors, in respect of both audit and non-audit services. It also advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and
on their remuneration.
The audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control as it operated during the period and reported
its conclusions to the Board.
The committee is also responsible for actioning the recommendations of the Board arising from its review of the internal control and risk
assessment report.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises three non-executive Directors, Barrie Clark, Steven Fink and Peter Magowan and is chaired by Barrie
Clark. The committee is responsible for recommending the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for executive Directors, including
performance-related bonus schemes.
The report of the Board on Directors' remuneration, which includes details of the Directors' remuneration and Directors' interests in options,
together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 13 to 16.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chairman's statement and operating and financial review on pages 3 to 6
include a review of the business and future developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional investors including presentations after
the Company's preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. Details
of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2003 can be found in the Notice of meeting on page 48.
Internal control
Following the publication of the recommendations of The Turnbull Committee on 27 September 1999 the Board adopted processes for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. These processes include the review by the Board on a quarterly
basis of an internal control and risk assessment report, to allow it to report on internal controls in this annual report. Management and the
executive Directors are responsible for ensuring the completeness and accuracy of this report on a continuous basis.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management
is to implement Board policies on risk and control. The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure of the achievement of business objectives. In pursuing these objectives internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process, which is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, has been in place for the financial period and up to the date the accounts
were approved.
The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal financial control are as follows:
Management structure
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, thus ensuring
that it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational, risk management and compliance issues. The size of the Group and
its management style ensures the involvement in and knowledge of the activities of each operating division by at least one member of the
Board.
The Board includes a senior independent non-executive Director, Barrie Clark, to whom concerns can be conveyed. Corporate governance - at 31 December 2002
Budgetary process 
Each year the Board approves the annual budget, the components of which form the financial objectives for individual operating divisions.
Key risk areas are identified. Performance against these objectives is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the
regular reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the year and information on the key risk areas.
Group procedures manual
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the Group procedures manual, which sets out delegation of authority
and authorisation levels and other control procedures, together with accounting and reporting procedures. The manual is updated regularly.
Internal audit
The Group internal audit function, comprising two members of the head office finance team, report to the Chief Financial Officer and monitor
the effectiveness of key internal controls and compliance with the Group procedures manual. The Board utilises the internal audit function to
assist the Board in the preparation of a risk and internal control memorandum, embedded within existing control systems and updated on a
regular basis, to monitor and formally report to the Board the Group's compliance with the Combined Code. Additional assignments are
carried out on the request of the audit committee.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Steven Fink
Non-executive Chairman
12 March 2003
12 Corporate governance Spring Group plc Annual Report and Accounts - 31 December 2002