 Board of Directors
Executive Directors
1. Garry Watts, Chief Executive  (50)
Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2004 after joining as
Group Finance Director in February 2001. He was previously
an Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and Finance
Director of Medeva plc. Garry is a Non-Executive Director of
the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency
( MHRA') and also of Protherics plc. 
2. Mark Moran, Group Finance Director (47)
Appointed as Group Finance Director in June 2004, Mark
was previously Finance Director of Porvair plc.
3. Ian Adamson, Managing Director Europe (48)
Appointed as Executive Director in April 2004, Ian also has
responsibility for Group Marketing and Innovation and for the
Americas. He joined Seton Healthcare plc in 1991 as Director
of Marketing and has subsequently held a number of senior
sales, marketing and general management positions within
the Group. He previously held sales and marketing positions
at Johnson & Johnson and W. L. Gore. 
Non-Executive Directors
4. Gerald Corbett, Chairman (55)
Chairman since August 2005, Gerald is also Chairman of
Britvic plc and a Non-Executive Director of Greencore Group
PLC. He will be stepping down from the Board of Woolworths
Group plc on 6 June 2007 , having served as a Director and
Chairman since March 2001. Previous executive positions
include Chief Executive of Railtrack PLC and Group Finance
Director of both Grand Metropolitan plc and Redland plc,
whilst past Non-Executive Directorships include MEPC PLC
and Burmah Castrol PLC.
5. Peter Read, Senior Independent Director (68)
Appointed in March 2002, Peter is Chairman of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. He is a 
Non-Executive Director of Vernalis plc and an independent
Director of Innogenetics NV. Previously, Peter was a senior
executive with Hoechst and President of ABPI, a Non-
Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and a member 
of the Board of the South East Development Agency.
6. Richard Adam (49)
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee in November 2003, Richard is
currently Group Finance Director of Carillion plc. Prior to
this, he was Group Finance Director of Associated British
Ports Holdings PLC. Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.  
7 . Susan Murray (50)
Appointed in January 2005, Susan is currently Chairman 
of FB Raphael 1 Limited (the holding company of the Farrow
and Ball paint and wallpaper business) and a Non-Executive
Director of Enterprise Inns PLC, Imperial T obacco PLC, WM
Morrisons Supermarkets plc and The Advertising Standards
Authority. Previously, Susan was Chief Executive of
Littlewoods Stores Limited.
8. Anna Catalano (47)
Appointed in November 2004, Anna has held senior global
marketing and sales positions in Amoco including President,
Amoco Orient Oil Company and was Group Vice President,
Marketing at BP plc. She is a Non-Executive Director of Willis
Group Limited and the US company, Hercules Incorporated. 
9. Antony Mannion, Company Secretary (46)
Appointed in September 2004, Antony qualified as a
solicitor with Freshfields in 1986 and has also worked 
as an investment banker with Citicorp Investment Bank 
and Standard Chartered Bank. 
32
 
33
Board of Directors
Corporate governance
12 3 4 5
67 8 9 Corporate governance
Introduction
The Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders and other
stakeholders, by developing strategy and by leading the Group, ensuring
that the appropriate resources, processes and controls are in place to
execute that strategy. Developing and maintaining high standards of
corporate governance is integral to the delivery of value. 
This report explains SSL's corporate governance arrangements and how
the Group has applied the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
(the  Code').
The Board
There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board. This 
schedule includes:
 
Approval/development of the Group's long-term objectives and
commercial strategy;
 
Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any
material changes to them;
 
Review of performance in the light of the Group's strategy, objectives,
business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective
action is taken;
 
Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions;
 
Approval of contracts which are material strategically, or by reason 
of size; and
 
Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
T o ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board has 
a schedule of matters for each meeting. These matters include:
 
Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director;
 
Health and safety;
 
Presentations from the heads of the business units;
 
Investor relations; and
 
Regulatory reviews.
The Board receives regular updates on relevant legal, environmental and
regulatory matters, as necessary between meetings.
The schedule below sets out the number of scheduled Board and
committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by Directors
at those meetings.
Scheduled Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings meetings
G Corbett 7 (7) 5 (5) 1(1)
G Watts 7 (7) 5 (5)
I Adamson 7 (7)
M Moran 7 (7)
P Read 7 (7) 4 (4) 5 (5) 4 (4)
R Adam 7 (7) 4 (4) 5 (5) 4 (4)
A Catalano 6 (7) 3 (4) 3 (4)
S Murray 7 (7) 4 (4) 4 (4)
M Pilkington 7 (7) 
The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the
individual was a Board member. When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive
the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting.
In addition, there is an annual off-site meeting devoted solely to strategy.
During the year under review, the Board continued to be led by the
Chairman, Gerald Corbett. Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is primarily
responsible for the effective running of the Group's business. There is 
a clear, written schedule on the division of responsibilities between the
Chairman and the Chief Executive. In addition to the Chairman and 
Chief Executive, there are four Non-Executive Directors (one of whom 
is the Senior Independent Director ( SID')) and two Executive Directors. 
Mike Pilkington served as an Executive Director during the year, until 
he resigned on 22 March 2007 .
Details of the Chairman's professional commitments are included in 
his biography. The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of 
the Chairman do not interfere with the performance of his duties as
Chairman. The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors 
are independent in character and judgement and by reference to the
Combined Code and that controls are in place to ensure that no single
Director has unfettered powers of decision.
The management of operational matters within the Group is delegated to
the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and
certain other senior executives. The Executive Committee meets monthly.
Board evaluation
During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors.
Previously, evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the SID.
The Board concluded that an internal evaluation remained appropriate, 
but that the process be led by the Chairman, whilst the SID conducted the
evaluation of the Chairman.
All Directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire, which
each Director then discussed with the Chairman and with the SID, in relation
to responses about the Chairman. The results were presented and fully
discussed by the Board. Overall, the results were good. Recommendations
that are being implemented include a more detailed half-year review on
strategy and greater focus on succession planning.
The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable process 
which has contributed to fostering an environment within the Board which
is challenging but supportive and encourages focus on the main issues
facing the Group. In 2005/06, the recommendations included improving
the Board's knowledge of the supply chain process. Regular updates on 
the supply chain are now presented to the Board and consequently the
knowledge of the Directors in this area has improved.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme
involving existing and potential investors. The Chief Executive, Finance
Director and certain senior executives meet with institutional investors 
on a regular basis. The Chairman and SID make themselves available to
meet with institutional investors. The SID attended the preliminary and
interim results presentations with investors and analysts. An investor
relations report is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, 
to communicate with investors and encourage their participation. 
The Directors are available to speak informally with shareholders after
the meeting. Corporate governance
continued
Board Committees
The Board has established three committees. Each committee operates 
in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually
and can be viewed on the Company's website, www.ssl-international.com.
Committee meetings are generally held immediately prior to Board
meetings and the committee chairmen report at the next meeting on 
the proceedings of the committee which they chair.
34
 
35
Corporate governance
Chairman
Members
Attending by invitation
Summary of principal activities 
during the year
Audit
Richard Adam
Anna Catalano
Susan Murray
Peter Read
Group Chairman
Chief Executive
Finance Director
External auditor
Head of Business Assurance
(internal audit) 
Financial Controller
Company Secretary
 
Review of interim and annual
reports, including a consideration
of the comments of the external
auditor thereon
 
Review of risk management 
and internal control systems
 
Review of the Group's internal
audit processes, including
approval of the annual internal
audit plan 
 
Monitoring the provision of
services by the external auditors
and an annual appraisal of their
effectiveness as auditors
Nomination
Peter Read
Richard Adam
Gerald Corbett
Garry Watts
Group HR Director
Company Secretary
 
Reviewing the size and
composition of the Board
including the mix of skills 
and experience
 
Consideration of succession 
issues
 
Recommending the extension 
of the appointments of Richard
Adam and Peter Read as Non-
Executive Directors
Remuneration
Peter Read
Richard Adam
Anna Catalano
Gerald Corbett
Chief Executive
Group HR Director
Company Secretary
 
Reviewing the remuneration
policy for the Executive Directors
and the Executive Committee
 
Agreeing the compensation
arrangements for Mike Pilkington
 
Further information on the work
of this committee can be found 
in the Remuneration report on
pages 39 to 45 