 9
Corporate governance statement
For the year ended 31 December 2009
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
The Group supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Group and a brief outline of the role of 
the Board and its committees, together with the Group's systems of internal financial control which the Board will 
continue to keep under review, is given below.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Finance Director, two Executive Directors and two 
non-executive directors. Biographies of the directors appear below including who sits on which committee (A = Audit 
Committee, R = Remuneration Committee, N = Nominations Committee). The non-executive directors, although they 
have small shareholdings in the Company, are considered by the Board to be independent.
Shaun Brittain - Executive Director
Shaun Brittain joined the Group in August 2000 and the Board in February 2009. He was one of the Group's divisional 
directors, with responsibility for the largest region, and has made a significant contribution to the growth of Staffline's
Onsite model. Prior to that he held senior roles with Blue Arrow, both operational and strategic.
John Crabtree - Senior Independent Director (A, R, N)
John Crabtree joined the Board on 1 March 2005 as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. John was the senior partner of Wragge & Co, the Birmingham based corporate law firm. Whilst in this role 
John was responsible for the firm's evolution into a practice with 100 partners and a turnover of  75m. John has a 
number of business interests, including being non-executive Chairman of SLR Holdings Limited, TruckEast Limited and 
Birmingham Hippodrome Theatre Trust. In addition he is a director of Metalrax Group plc and Advantage West Midlands.
Marshall Evans - Executive Director
Having gained broad experience with P&O, NFC and Freightliners, Marshall spent six years as Operations director of TIP 
Trailer Rental ( TIP'), joining GE Capital when that company acquired TIP in 1993. He then spent four years as part of the
acquisition team which purchased and integrated ten further companies, including TLS Vehicle Rental, into GE Capital 
and became an Executive Director of TLS. He joined Staffline and the Board in July 2002.
Andy Hogarth - Chairman and Chief Executive (N)
Andy has held senior roles in a wide range of businesses including retail, support services, healthcare, hospitality and 
construction. As Finance director he led the MBO and subsequent trade sale in 2002 of Pipeline Constructors Group, a 
 100m utility services business. He is currently Executive Chairman and CEO of Staffline Group plc, non-executive 
Chairman of Carnell Support Services Limited, sits on the Board of an elderly care charity and is a director of Hogarths 
Hotel, a boutique hotel in Solihull. He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA) as well as 
a Master Practitioner of Neuro-Linguistic Programming and a Certified NLP coach. He joined Staffline in 2002 as Finance 
Director, becoming Managing Director in 2005 and Chairman in 2009.
Tim Jackson - Finance Director
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Grant Thornton Tim spent nine years in various financial and commercial 
roles at Salvesen Logistics Plc. He then spent seven years at Redbridge Holdings Limited culminating in the position of 
Finance Director of its food service division, Redbridge Fresh Services. As Finance director of SG Maintenance Services 
Limited he was instrumental in the operational and finance side of the business and its eventual disposal, before joining 
Applied Language Solutions Limited, a fast growing translation business, as Finance Director. He joined Staffline as 
Finance Director in December 2008. He remains a non-executive director of Applied Language Solutions Limited.
Nicholas Francis Keegan - Non-Executive Director (A, R, N)
Nicholas is a qualified Chartered Accountant and after 10 years in investment banking has been Finance Director of a 
number of quoted and unquoted West Midland companies, including Newman Tonks Group plc and Frederick Cooper 
plc. He was from 2005 until January 2009 the Chief Financial Officer of CompAir Holdings Limited, a venture capital 
backed international manufacturing business, which was acquired in 2008 by the USA quoted group, Gardner Denver 
Inc. He was a non-executive director of Interserve plc until 2009. He joined Staffline in November 2004 and is Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. 10
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and 
performance. The Annual General Meeting will be used to communicate with all investors and they are encouraged to 
participate. The directors will be available to answer questions. Separate resolutions will be proposed on each issue so 
that they can be given proper consideration and there will be a formal resolution to approve the Annual Report and 
Accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and 
the Group's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal financial control is designed to provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Nicholas Keegan, has met four times during the year and is responsible for ensuring 
that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported on, as well as meeting the auditors and 
reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and internal control systems. During the year the Group has 
again performed a risk identification exercise with mitigating actions implemented.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by John Crabtree has met four times during the year. It is responsible for 
determining the level of remuneration to be paid to the Executive Directors. A separate report on remuneration is 
contained on pages 12 to 13.
The Nominations Committee, chaired by John Crabtree has met twice during the year. It is responsible for ensuring that 
the balance of the Board is appropriate to control and direct the business.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size and complexity of the Group 
does not justify it at present. However, it will keep this decision under annual review.
The directors keep a register of risks faced by the business, rating these risks on a scale of 1 to 5 for both probability and 
impact. These risks have been mitigated to the extent considered practical and are reviewed annually. The directors 
have identified the following key risks and uncertainties facing the Group:
Risks
 l Because of the industries in which the Group specialises, principally food processing, the directors consider the 
Group likely to be relatively less affected than others in the sector during a general economic downturn. However,
this sector is subject to great change and consolidation as the buying power of major retailers continues to drive the 
need for rationalisation and greater economies of scale. We are at risk if our clients lose business in this process. We
continue to counter this risk by expanding our client base and can expect to gain as much business as we lose if we 
have a wide enough spread of clients.
 l Because we allow credit to our clients we are at risk if one of them runs into financial difficulties and is unable to pay 
their outstanding debt. To minimise the risks we monitor client payment patterns, subscribe to a monitoring service 
and employ pro-active credit control systems. To date these actions have been successful and the total bad debt 
charge to the Group in the last three years, excluding VAT, has been  60,000 on sales of  355m, equating to 0.02%
of sales.
 l We face the risk that one of our members of staff may deliberately by-pass the procedures set up to ensure we fully
comply with all legislative requirements. Although the systems we have should detect most of such acts within 35 
days there is a reputational and financial risk to the business should someone deliberately choose to do this.
 l Major failure of IT systems. The Group has a robust Disaster Recovery plan in place in the event of a major internal 
failure of our IT systems, which has proven to be successful three times in the past five years. However as our 
business grows we become ever more reliant on third party telecommunication and other providers, including BT,
BACS and Project Telecom. A major failure by any of these suppliers might prove very disruptive.
 l Competition. The Group operates in a sector where there are a significant number of competitors and barriers to 
entry are relatively low. To counter the threat of competitors seeking to win business from us the Group aims to build 
strong long-term relationships with its customers through excellent service levels and through its rigorous selection 
and checking procedures which ensure that all contractors provided by the Group are fully compliant with the legal 
requirements.
Corporate governance statement (cont)
For the year ended 31 December 2009 11
Uncertainties
 l The recovery of the UK from recession may impact the Group in both positive and negative ways. The core business 
model, with its emphasis on the food-production sector is considered relatively defensive as food consumption in the 
home should not be significantly impacted. The recovery may provide some opportunities if clients seek to use 
temporary staff in lieu of replacing permanent employees. The exposure to permanent recruitment is minimal as 
permanent appointments represent under 1% of Group sales.
 l Onerous changes in the regulatory framework, driven by potential European or UK legislation, could lead to greatly 
increased employment costs which might lead to a reduction in demand for our temporary workers.
Going concern
In considering the ongoing funding requirements of the Group, the directors have prepared detailed cash flow forecasts 
extending to March 2011 and these indicate that the Group expects to be able to continue to operate within its existing 
bank facilities for the foreseeable future. The Group enjoys a strong working relationship with its bank and had undrawn 
overdraft facilities of  3.6m at 31 December 2009. Coupled with a strong financial performance for the year ended
31 December 2009 and a strong start to 2010 the directors are of the view that it remains appropriate for the financial 
statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.