 15
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code
The Group supports the concept of an effective Board leading and
controlling the Group and a brief outline of the role of the Board and its
committees, together with the Group's systems of internal financial control
which the Board will continue to keep under review, is given below.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman and Chief Executive, the
Finance Director, the Operations Director, the Executive Director and two
Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of the Directors appear below
including who sits on which committee (A = Audit Committee, R =
Remuneration Committee, N = Nominations Committee). The Non-
Executive directors, although they have small shareholdings in the Company,
are considered by the Board to be independent.
Shaun Brittain - Executive Director
Shaun Brittain joined the Group in August 2000 and the Board in February
2009. He was one of the Group's divisional directors, with responsibility for
the largest region, and has made a significant contribution to the growth of
Staffline's Onsite model. Prior to that he held senior roles at Corporate
Services Group, and at ABC Contract Services, before its acquisition by
Corporate Services Group. 
John Crabtree - Senior Independent Director (A, R, N)
John Crabtree joined the Board on 1 March 2005 as a Non-Executive
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. John was the
senior partner of Wragge & Co, the Birmingham based corporate law firm.
Whilst in this role John was responsible for the firm's evolution into a practice
with 100 partners and a turnover of  75m. John has a number of business
interests, including being Non-Executive Chairman of Metalrax Group plc,
SLR Holdings Limited, Claimar Care Group plc and Birmingham Hippodrome
Theatre Trust. In addition he is a director of Advantage West Midlands.
Marshall Evans - Operations Director 
Having gained broad experience with P&O, NFC and Freightliners, Marshall
spent six years as Operations Director of TIP Trailer Rental (TIP ), joining GE
Capital when that company acquired TIP in 1993. He then spent four years
as part of the acquisition team which purchased and integrated ten further
companies, including TLS Vehicle Rental, into GE Capital and became an
Executive Director of TLS. He joined Staffline and the Board in July 2002.
Andy Hogarth - Chairman and Chief Executive 
Andy's previous experience in recruitment was as a franchisee for Adecco.
Having sold this business he went on to train as an accountant and is now a
Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. He joined
Pipeline Constructors Group plc as Finance Director and then headed a
Corporate governance 
statement
For the year ended 31 December 2008
83505 Staffline R&A '09 final:Layout 1  7/4/09  12:51  Page 15 16
management buyout of that group in 1995. This investment gave the
venture capital backers, 3i and ISIS, a 25% compound return over 6 years. 
In this period sales grew from  17m to  75m whilst profits grew tenfold.
Following the sale of Pipeline to Morgan Sindall plc, Andy joined Staffline in
August 2002, initially as Finance Director, becoming the Managing Director in
February 2003, then Chairman and Chief Executive in February 2009. 
He has had experience of buying, growing and selling businesses in a
number of sectors. He is also non-executive Chairman of Carnell Support 
Services Limited.
Tim Jackson - Finance Director
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Grant Thornton Tim spent
nine years in various financial and commercial roles at Salvesen Logistics Plc.
He then spent 7 years at Redbridge Holdings Limited culminating in the
position of Finance Director of its food service division, Redbridge Fresh
Services. As Finance Director of SG Maintenance Services Limited he was
instrumental in the operational and finance side of the business and its
eventual disposal, before joining Applied Language Solutions Limited, a fast
growing translation business, as Finance Director. He joined Staffline as
Finance Director in December 2008. He remains a non-executive director of
Applied Language Solutions Limited.
Nicholas Francis Keegan - Non-Executive Director (A,R,N)
Nicholas is a qualified Chartered Accountant and after 10 years in investment
banking has been Finance Director of a number of quoted and unquoted
West Midland companies, including Newman Tonks Group plc and Frederick
Cooper plc. He was from 2005 until January 2009 the Chief Financial Officer
of CompAir Holdings Limited, a venture capital backed international
manufacturing business, which was acquired in 2008 by the USA quoted
group, Gardner Denver Inc. He is currently a Non-Executive Director of
Interserve plc. He joined Staffline in November 2004 and is Chairman of the
Audit Committee. 
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their
interest in the Group's strategy and performance. The Annual General
Meeting will be used to communicate with all investors and they are
encouraged to participate. The Directors will be available to answer
questions. Separate resolutions will be proposed on each issue so that they
can be given proper consideration and there will be a formal resolution to
approve the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control
to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's assets and for
reviewing its effectiveness. 
The system of internal financial control is designed to provide reasonable,
83505 Staffline R&A '09 final:Layout 1  7/4/09  12:51  Page 16 17
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Nicholas Keegan, has met three times
during the year and is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance
of the Group is properly monitored and reported on, as well as meeting the
auditors and reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts
and internal control systems. 
During the year the Group has again performed a risk identification exercise
with mitigating actions implemented.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by John Crabtree has met twice
during the year. It is responsible for determining the level of remuneration to
be paid to the Executive Directors. A separate report on remuneration is
contained on pages 19 to 21.
A Nominations Committee has been formed comprising of the Non-
Executive Directors, which has met once in 2008.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has
decided the size and complexity of the Group does not justify it at present.
However, it will keep this decision under annual review.
The Directors keep a register of risks faced by the business, rating these
risks on a scale of 1 to 5 for both probability and impact. These risks have
been mitigated to the extent considered practical and are reviewed annually.
The Directors have identified the following key risks and uncertainties facing
the Group: 
Risks
  Because of the industries in which the Group specialises, principally food
processing, the Directors consider the Group likely to be relatively less
affected than others in the sector during a general economic downturn.
However, this sector is subject to great change and consolidation as the
buying power of major retailers continues to drive the need for
rationalisation and greater economies of scale. We are at risk if our clients
lose business in this process. We continue to counter this risk by
expanding our client base and can expect to gain as much business as
we lose if we have a wide enough spread of clients. 
  Because we allow credit to our clients we are at risk if one of them runs
into financial difficulties and is unable to pay their outstanding debt. 
To minimise the risks we monitor client payment patterns, subscribe to a
monitoring service and employ pro-active credit control systems. To date
these actions have been successful and the total bad debt charge to the
Group in the last three years, excluding VAT, has been  110,000 on sales
of  325 million, equating to 0.03% of sales. 
  We face the risk that one of our members of staff may deliberately by-
pass the procedures set up to ensure we fully comply with all legislative
requirements. Although the systems we have should detect most of
such acts within 35 days there is a reputational and financial risk to the
business should someone deliberately choose to do this.
Corporate governance 
statement (cont)
For the year ended 31 December 2008
83505 Staffline R&A '09 final:Layout 1  7/4/09  12:51  Page 17 18
  Major failure of IT systems. The Group has a robust Disaster Recovery
plan in place in the event of a major internal failure of our IT systems,
which has proven to be successful three times in the past five years.
However as our business grows we become ever more reliant on third
party telecommunication and other providers, including BT, BACS and
Project Telecom. A major failure by any of these suppliers might prove
very disruptive.
  Competition. The Group operates in a sector where there are a
significant number of competitors and barriers to entry are relatively low.
To counter the threat of competitors seeking to win business from us the
Group aims to build strong long term relationships with its customers
through excellent service levels and through its rigorous selection and
checking procedures which ensure that all contractors provided by the
Group are fully compliant with the legal requirements.
Uncertainties
  The extent of the UK recession may impact the Group in both positive
and negative ways. The core business model, with its emphasis on the
food-production sector is considered relatively defensive as food
consumption in the home should not be significantly impacted. 
The recession may provide some opportunities if clients seek to use
temporary staff in lieu of replacing permanent employees. The exposure
to permanent recruitment is minimal as permanent appointments
represent under 1% of Group sales.
  Onerous changes in the regulatory framework, driven by potential
European or UK legislation, could lead to greatly increased 
employment costs which might lead to a reduction in demand for 
our temporary workers.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
83505 Staffline R&A '09 final:Layout 1  7/4/09  12:51  Page 18