 6.1 Composition of the Audit Committee
The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 5.7 . Garry
Watts is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Chartered
Accountant, a former audit partner, a former Finance Director and Chief
Executive of FTSE 350 companies and is also a member of the audit
committee of a large quoted (NYSE listed) company. He is competent in both
accounting and auditing matters. The designated Committee member with
recent and relevant financial experience is therefore Garry Watts. Phil White is
a former Finance Director and former Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company
and is also a Chartered Accountant. Helen Mahy is a Barrister, an Associate of
the Chartered Insurance Institute and is a current Company Secretary and
General Counsel of a FTSE 100 company.
6.2 Operation of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has also met a
further time in June 2012. The Committee retains discretion as to who from
outside the Committee should attend its meetings but generally invites the
following to attend:
  The Group Finance Director;
  The Director of Finance & Company Secretary;
  The Deputy Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee;
  Representatives from the external auditors;
  Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
In addition, the Group Tax Director is expected to present to the Committee
at least annually.
Other directors, including the Chairman of the Company, are also welcome to
attend meetings of the Committee and do so from time to time.
The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the
Risk Assurance Function (internal audit), which is outsourced and managed
by Deloitte. It also receives reports from the external auditors. It considers the
scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements
and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the
Group. The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence
and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Group's
website at
http://www.stagecoach.com/~/media/Files/S/Stagecoach-
Group/Attachments/about/audit-committee-tor-feb-2011.pdf
6.3 Review of External Auditors
The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and
remuneration of the external auditors. There have been no instances of
disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the
external auditors.
Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit
Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the
Group and the auditors. This review includes:
  the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval
of any other fees in excess of  50,000 per annum which are payable to
auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities;
  the consideration of the auditors' independence and objectivity;
  the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm
or offices of the same firm are involved; and
  discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit
process on an annual basis. This assessment includes consideration of the
auditors' independence and objectivity, taking into consideration relevant
laws, regulations and professional requirements.  The assessment involves
considering all relationships between the Group and the auditors, including
the nature and quantum of non-audit services.  Assurances are obtained from
the auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business,
employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that could
affect the auditor's independence and objectivity, taking account of relevant
Ethical Standards.  The auditors explain to the Audit Committee their policies
and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance
with relevant requirements.
Whilst the Group has no set frequency for tendering the external audit, the
Group's external audit was last tendered in 2002 and resulted in a change of
external auditors. The audit engagement partner last changed in 2011. The
Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of external
auditors.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors' performance
during their period in office, recommends re-appointment. The audit fees of
 0.8m (2011:  0.8m) for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and non-audit related
fees of  0.2m (2011: less than  0.1m) were discussed by the Audit
Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group
and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year. 
The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does
not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit
obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of
the Group's operations. Other accounting or consulting firms have been used
where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or
where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
6.4      Policy on the Auditors Providing 
Non-Audit Services
Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in place to
safeguard audit objectivity and independence. The Group's policies on non-
audit services are:
  Audit related services - These are services that the auditors must undertake
or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors. Such
services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports,
and certain shareholder circulars. The auditors would generally provide all
such services.
  Tax consulting - It is the Group's policy to select the advisor for each
specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills
and experience for the work required. The Group uses a range of advisors
for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the
work being undertaken.
  General consulting - For other consulting work, the Group will select an
advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the
expected cost of the work. The Group uses a range of advisors for general
consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work
being undertaken. The auditors are only permitted to provide general
consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are
satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the
audit team's independence or a conflict of interest that could not be
effectively mitigated.
6.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on
the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group
Risk Assurance Function (internal auditors). There have been no instances of
disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the
Risk Assurance Function.
The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship
between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function. This review includes a
consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the
quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the
context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance
function on an annual basis.
6. Audit Committee report
Stagecoach Group plc | page 37
86303_STC_FrontPRINT_86303_STC_FrontPRINT  02/07/2012  13:47  Page 37 Audit Committee report
6.6 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up  Policy
The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Group's Code of Conduct
and use of the Group's Speaking Up  policy, which provides a mechanism for
employees with serious concerns about the conduct of the Group or its
employees to report those concerns. The Committee ensures that appropriate
arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a
complaint about malpractice. The Committee takes a particular interest in
any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting. Any known
instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit Committee.
6.7 Focus over the last year
The Audit Committee has considered a wide range of matters at its three
meetings over the last year and received various reports and presentations as
follows:
  The Committee has received several updates from Deloitte, which
manages the outsourced Risk Assurance function.  Deloitte attended all
meetings of the Committee.  In addition, the Group has certain specialist
assurance functions and this year, the Committee received a presentation
from the UK Bus engineering audit function that provides assurance over
engineering risks and processes in the UK Bus Division.
  A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director on the Group's
tax affairs, significant tax accounting judgements and tax risks.  Similarly,
the Group Treasury team presented on the Group's treasury affairs and
management of treasury risks.
  At each meeting, the Committee considered the principal judgemental
accounting issues affecting the Group based on reports from both the
Group's management and the external auditors.  The external auditors
attended all meetings of the Committee and presented on its audit plans
and findings, amongst other matters.
  The Committee has considered and made changes to the Group's
announcements of its interim and preliminary financial results, as well as
its Annual Report.  The Committee also reviewed the evidence that
supported the conclusion that the Group remained a going concern.
  All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the
Group were reported to and considered by the Committee, although there
were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit disclosure in
the Annual Report.  The Committee also received and considered updates
on litigation involving the Group, although again there were no such
matters that were sufficiently material to merit separate disclosure in the
Annual Report.  
  As part of the Committee's ongoing training and development, both
management and the external auditors updated the Committee on
developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, guidance for
audit committees, legislation affecting the Group more generally and
other relevant regulatory developments and guidance.
  The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin
Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
  As described in section 6.6, the Group's Code of Conduct and Speaking Up
Policy were reviewed by the Committee.
  Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings (comprising members of
management) were shared with the Audit Committee.
  The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors' expense claims.
Overall, the Committee considers that it has continued to operate effectively
during the year.
Garry Watts
Chairman of the Audit Committee
26 June 2012
page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc
86303_STC_FrontPRINT_86303_STC_FrontPRINT  02/07/2012  13:47  Page 38