 Sterling Energy Plc  Report and Financial Statements 2013 28
Alastair Beardsall, executive Chairman, aged 60
Alastair joined Sterling in September 2009. He has been involved in the oil industry for over 30 years. For the first 12 years 
Alastair worked on international assignments with Schlumberger, the oil-field services company. From 1992 he began 
working for independent exploration and production operators, with increasing responsibility for specific exploration, 
development and production ventures. Between September 2003 and October 2009, Alastair was executive Chairman 
of Emerald Energy Plc during which time Emerald grew from a market capitalisation of less than  8 million to a size 
that allowed the Company to enter the FTSE 250 index in January 2009. In October 2009 Emerald was acquired by 
Sinochem Resources UK Limited, for  7.50 per share in a transaction that valued Emerald at  532 million.
 
Philip Frank, Exploration Director, aged 61
Philip joined Sterling in October 2011 as Exploration Director. Following a PhD gained at Liverpool University, he started 
his oil industry career in 1977 with an 11 year spell in BP , initially as a North Sea rig geologist and finally as the group-wide 
Assistant Chief Geologist. Since then he has held senior management positions in a range of UK-based independent 
exploration and production companies including Clyde, Monument and LASMO, and has gained extensive world-wide 
exploration experience with an emphasis on new venture generation. Philip was closely involved with Emerald Energy 
from 2003 through to its acquisition in 2009. Initially in a consulting role and finally as Exploration Manager, he provided 
the exploration direction for the company's successes both in Colombia and in Syria.
Nicholas Clayton, non-executive Director, aged 50
Nicholas was appointed a non-executive Director of Sterling in October 2009. Nicholas is chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Nicholas has provided strategic and 
corporate finance advice to a number of public and private oil and gas companies since January 2007. Between August 
2005 and December 2006 he was Global Co-Head of Oil and Gas Corporate Finance for Canaccord Adams. For the 
previous 5 years he held the position of Global Head of Oil and Gas Corporate Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, 
the investment bank, having previously been Global Head of Oil and Gas Research between 1997 and 2000. Nicholas 
began his career at BP having obtained a first class honours degree in Business Studies, sponsored by BP , from 
Portsmouth Polytechnic in 1985. Nicholas serves as a non-executive Director of Circle Oil Plc, where he is chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
Keith Henry, non-executive Director, aged 69 
Keith was appointed a non-executive Director of Sterling in September 2009. He chairs the Remuneration Committee 
and is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees. He has over 35 years of international business experience 
in the development, ownership, design and construction of major facilities worldwide. He was with Brown & Root Limited 
for 23 years, the last five of which were as Chief Executive responsible for the Europe, Africa and FSU regions. From 
1995 to 1999 he was Chief Executive of National Power Plc, and then Chief Executive of Kvaerner Engineering and 
Construction Ltd until June 2003. Keith serves as Chairman of Regal Petroleum Plc and Mediterranean Oil and Gas Plc, 
as well as serving as a non-executive Director and advisor to a number of companies in the engineering, services and 
energy sectors. He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Malcolm Pattinson, non-executive Director, aged 70
Malcolm was appointed a non-executive Director of Sterling in November 2010. Malcolm is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Malcolm is a geoscientist with 40 years of 
experience and joined Sterling in November 2010. Until 2001 he was the vice-president of exploration for Ranger Oil 
(which became CNR); and prior to this he was exploration vice-president for Hamilton Oil (which became BHP). From 
2001 to 2006 Malcolm was a consultant for Tullow Oil. Malcolm is an honorary life member and former chairman of the 
Petroleum Exploration Society of Great Britain, and was awarded the medal for outstanding achievement in 1996 by 
the Petroleum Group of the Geological Society. He is the chairman of GTO Limited and was formerly a non-executive 
Director of Aurelian Oil and Gas Plc.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors 29 Sterling Energy Plc  Report and Financial Statements 2013
APPLICATION OF UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE PRINCIPLES 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 the Board has sought to comply with a number of the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code ) in so far as it considers them to be appropriate to a company of the size 
and nature of Sterling. The Directors make no statement of compliance with the Code overall and do not explain in detail 
any aspect of the Code with which they do not comply. The Company continues to keep its overall system of internal 
control under review.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES
Board Composition, Operation and Independence
The Board currently comprises the executive Chairman, one executive Director and three non-executive Directors. Each 
of the executive Directors has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry combined with general business and 
financial skills. All of the Directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources, 
key appointments and standards. The Board meets regularly throughout the year and all the necessary information is 
supplied to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Company. A Statement of Directors' 
Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on page 50.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. These include strategic planning, 
business acquisitions or disposals, authorisation of major capital expenditure and material contractual arrangements, 
changes to the Group's capital structure, setting policies for the conduct of business, approval of budgets, remuneration 
policy of Directors and senior management, and taking on debt and approval of financial statements. Other matters are 
delegated to the Committees of the Board and executive Directors, supported by policies for reporting to the Board. 
Keith Henry is the Senior Independent Director. The Senior Independent Director is available to Shareholders if they have 
concerns which, through the normal channels of contact with the Chairman or CEO, have not been resolved or for which 
such contact is inappropriate. 
The Company maintains Directors' and Officers' liability insurance cover and provides the Directors with indemnity, the 
level of which is reviewed annually.
Meetings and Attendance
The following table summarises the number of Board and committee meetings held during the year and the attendance 
record of the individual Directors:
Board
Meetings
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Number of meetings in year 8 4 1 1
Alastair Beardsall 8 - - -
Philip Frank 8 - - -
Angus MacAskill (resigned 16 August 2013) 5 - - -
Keith Henry 8 4 1 1
Nicholas Clayton 8 4 1 1
Malcolm Pattinson 8 4 1 1 Sterling Energy Plc  Report and Financial Statements 2013 30
Induction and Training
New Directors, on their appointment to the Board, are briefed by the Board and management on the activities of the 
Group and its key business and financial risks, the Terms of Reference of the Board and its Committees, the list of Board 
reserved matters, and the latest financial information about the Group. The Chairman ensures that Directors update their 
skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board Committees. Ongoing 
training is available as necessary and includes updates from the Company Secretary on changes to the AIM rules, the 
Code, requirements under the Companies Act and other regulatory matters. Directors may consult with the Company 
Secretary at any time on matters related to their role on the Board. All Directors have access to independent professional 
advice at the Company's expense.
Evaluation of the Board's Performance
Performance evaluation takes place for individual Directors, the Board and its Committees and includes assessing 
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole. The evaluation of the performance of Directors is carried out using peer 
appraisal questionnaires which combine business and personal performance and includes discussions with the 
Senior Independent Director and the Senior Independent Director with the Chairman. Aspects of performance include 
attendance and participation at Board meetings, quality of involvement in Committees, commitment and effectiveness of 
their contribution to Board activities (including the AGM and shareholder communications), the adequacy of training and 
non-executive Directors' independence. The process is conducted and reviewed by the Senior Independent Director, 
on behalf of the Nominations Committee; the Company Secretary is advised of its completion. The performance of the 
Chairman is reviewed annually in a meeting of the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director. This 
review takes into account the views of executive Directors.
Retirement and Re-election
The Company's Articles of association require that any Director who has been a Director at the preceding two Annual 
General Meetings and who was not appointed or re-appointed by the Company, retire and stand for re-election. All 
new Directors appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting need to stand for election at the following Annual 
General Meeting.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors (cont.)