 18 Strategic Thought Group plc / Report and Accounts 2007
corporate governance
The Board
The Chairman of the Board, Peter Morgan, is one 
of the three independent Non-executive Directors.
Strategic Thought believe the Chairman to be
independent, despite the prescriptions of the Code 
in this respect. The Board considers that all three 
Non-executive Directors are independent in
accordance with the Code. The Board weighed a
number of factors including whether each Non-
executive Director is objective, provides a challenge 
to management, is prepared to challenge the views 
of others, demonstrates a good understanding of the
business, has the best interests of the Company in
mind and has no relationships or circumstances that
are likely to affect his judgment.
The Board comprises the Non-executive Chairman,
Peter Morgan, three Executive Directors, Richard Higgs
(until 18 June 2007), Nick Denning and Andrew Darby,
one Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Simon
Ricketts and one Independent Non-executive Director,
Martin Metcalf, who was appointed as CEO on 18
June 2007. The Board collectively has a wide range of
relevant business, financial and international experience
which is vital to the success of the Group. Each of the
Directors has significant knowledge of the technology
business combined with general business skills.
Andrew Darby was appointed as CFO on 3 August
2006. Andrew, a qualified chartered accountant, has
extensive financial experience gained both here and
abroad in the technology industry. Martin Metcalf was
appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director
on 28 February 2007. 
Martin brings to the Board many years of experience
from within technology sales. As they have been
appointed to the Board since the last AGM, Andrew
Darby and Martin Metcalf will, under the Articles of
Association, retire and stand for election at the AGM.
The Code calls for the re-election of one third of the
Directors at each AGM. Accordingly, one Director is
required to stand for re-election at the forthcoming
AGM and this will be Nick Denning.
The Non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in
corporate accountability by bringing their
independent judgment to bear on issues brought
before the Board and Board committees. They bring
considerable knowledge and experience from other
areas of business and public life and their views carry
significant weight in the Board's decisions. They also
meet as a group from time to time without Executive
Directors being present to consider the performance
of the Executive Directors. With the appointment of
Martin Metcalf as CEO, the Board will undertake a
search for an additional Non-executive Director.
The Board meets eleven times throughout the year
and all the necessary information is supplied to the
Directors on a timely basis to enable them to
discharge their duties effectively. The Board has a
statement of responsibilities and is presented with an
agenda and supporting documentation prior to each
Board meeting. It is responsible for the overall
management of the Group and the approval of its
long term objectives and strategy.
The Company is quoted on the Alternative Investment 
Market of the London Stock Exchange (AIM ). The regulatory
requirements of AIM do not require the Company to follow 
the Combined Code which applies to fully listed companies.
Nevertheless, the Company is committed to high standards of
corporate governance to the extent that it is practicable and
appropriate for a Group of our size. This statement describes
how the recommendations outlined in the Combined Code of
Corporate Governance 2003 are implemented by the Group.  19
The Board has a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring
that it exercises control over appropriate strategic,
financial, operational and compliance issues. At these
meetings the Board reviews trading performance,
ensures adequate financing, monitors strategy,
examines investment and acquisition opportunities
and discusses reports to shareholders. The Non-
executive Directors can also take independent advice
as appropriate at the Company's expense.
Each Committee of the Board has written terms of
reference which have each been reviewed by the
relevant Committee in the last year.
Board evaluation
The performance of the Board and its sub-committees
is formally evaluated by the Board as a whole through
completion of a formal questionnaire. This was
ongoing at the year end and the output of this
evaluation will provide a basis for further development
of the Board's operations in the year ahead.
Training
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all new
Board members are equipped to fulfil their duties and
responsibilities. New Non-executive Directors meet
the Executive Directors individually and go through an
induction programme which will include meetings with
other senior managers as appropriate. The induction
programme also includes training in their duties and
they are kept up to date with any significant changes
in the law.
Executive Committee
The Board has established an Executive Committee
which comprises the Executive Directors together with
other senior Executives of the Group. They meet once
a month to discuss strategic and operational matters
and the key issues from the meetings are presented to
the Board.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee
comprises Simon Ricketts, Peter Morgan and Martin
Metcalf (until 18 June 2007) and is chaired by Simon
Ricketts. It met on two occasions in the past year. 
It reviews the remuneration of each of the Executive
Directors and sets the scale and structure of their
remuneration and other benefits. The Remuneration
Committee report can be found on page 16. 
The Remuneration Committee as constituted also
serves as the Nomination Committee for consideration
of Executive and Non-executive Director appointments.
During the year the Committee oversaw the recruitment
of one Executive Director and one Non-executive
Director. In the case of the Executive Director, a search
firm was used having drawn up the criteria to be
satisfied by the successful candidate. In the other case
the successful applicant came from a database of
potential, suitable candidates held by the Company. 20 Strategic Thought Group plc / Report and Accounts 2007
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Peter Morgan,
Simon Ricketts and Martin Metcalf (until 18 June
2007) and is chaired by Peter Morgan. Executive
Directors and auditors attend the meetings by
invitation to support the Committee in carrying out 
its responsibilities. The Audit Committee met twice 
in the last financial year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a
wide range of financial matters including the half year
and annual accounts before their submission to the
Board and monitoring the controls, which are in force
to ensure the integrity of the financial information
reported to shareholders. The Audit Committee
reviews the appointment of external auditors and
their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work
and discusses the nature and scope of the audit.
The Committee recognises that the independence 
of the Group's auditors is of paramount importance
to shareholders and regularly reviews the level of
non-audit work being performed by the auditors to
ensure that they remain independent. The Audit
Committee consults the external auditors in the
absence of Executive management in order to obtain
independent advice. Audit and non-audit fees paid 
or payable to the auditors in the year under review
are set out in note 4.
The Group does not have an internal audit function.
In the opinion of the Committee and the Board the
limited scale and complexity of the business does 
not warrant the establishment of a separate, internal
audit function. A process of reviews is in place and
the position is monitored annually.
Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's
system of internal control. The Directors monitor 
the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls 
on an annual basis including operational, financial,
compliance and risk management controls. The key
controls are designed to mitigate risk rather than
eliminate it and are as follows:
  Comprehensive financial planning and reporting
(including a three year plan) and a detailed annual
budget, which is approved by the Board, monthly
reporting of actual results against budget and
reporting against key financial and performance
objectives;
  Monthly performance reviews by the Chief
Executive and the Executive Committee;
  Established procedures and controls with the
Group IT systems designed to protect the security
of the Company data and provide disaster
recovery arrangements (with annual reviews 
and updates);
  Controls for all acquisitions, investments and
capital expenditure with clear authorisation levels;
  Maintenance of the Group's ISO 9001
accreditation driving regular internal reviews and
checks and mandatory annual audits in sales 
and marketing, project management, health and
safety, office management, environmental and
human resources;
  Procedure for escalation of material risks from 
the Executive Committee to the Board;
  Operation of a structured system of risk
management throughout the business; and
  Maintenance and regular review of the Group 
risk register by the Executive Committee.
The internal control systems continue to be reviewed
and developed where necessary. 21
Relations with Shareholders
The Company acknowledges the importance of
maintaining good communications with its investors.
This is principally effected by the CEO and CFO
through presentation and dialogue with shareholders,
institutions, brokers and media particularly following
the interim and preliminary results announcements.
Their views are communicated to the Board.
The principal communications with private investors
are through the Company's website
(www.strategicthought.com), the annual report and
financial statements, the interim statement and the
AGM. All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, which
provides shareholders with the opportunity to
question the Chairman and the Board.
By order of the Board:
Penelope Rose 
Company Secretary