 Aukett Group Plc annual report and accounts 2004 19
Corporate 
governance
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2004
Statement by the directors
The Company is required by the London Stock Exchange to publish a statement of compliance with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code) as annexed to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority. A new Combined Code was issued in July 2003 that applies to reporting
periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003. Consequently, the first year for which the Company will
be required to comply is the year ending 30 September 2005.
The directors have fully considered the Combined Code and, save as disclosed and explained below, the
Board believes that the Company has complied fully with the Combined Code during and since the year
ended 30 September 2004.
Board of Directors
The Company is headed by a Board of Directors which leads and controls the Group. The Board currently
comprises four executive directors and two non-executive directors who bring a wide range of experience
and skills to the Company. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the four executives led by
Mr J L Ripoll, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
Mr G K Deighton is the senior non-executive director and Mr L Heese is the other non-executive director. 
Mr Ripoll has held both the Chairmanship and Chief Executive role, contrary to clause A.2 of the
Combined Code, since his appointment to the Board by shareholders at the Extraordinary General
Meeting held on 26 March 2004.
The full Board of directors meets at least twelve times a year and retains full and effective control over the
Group's activities. The regular meetings review the performance of the Group against budget and strategy,
consider specific proposals and matters arising, and formulate the Group's policy. Board papers containing
appropriate and timely information are circulated to all directors. In addition, all directors are circulated
monthly with financial management reports, which give details of the activities and performance of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, covering areas such as company
strategy, approval of business plans, budgets and financial policies, appointment of key executives,
significant capital investments and borrowing transactions. Day to day management is delegated to the
executive directors, who meet weekly, operating within an annual budget set by the full Board.
The Company has a procedure in place for directors to take independent professional advice and receive
appropriate training in the course of their duties, at the Company's expense, via the company secretary if
they feel it is required. 
In accordance with the Company's articles of association, one third of the Board is required to retire by
rotation each year. In addition, all those appointed during the year will stand for re-election at the next
General Meeting, ensuring that each Board Member faces re-election at regular intervals.
A Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is set out on page 22. Aukett Group Plc annual report and accounts 2004 20
Corporate 
governance
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2004
Board and Committee Attendance
The following table details the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year ended 
30 September 2004 and the attendance record of each director.
Board Committees Notes:
Attended Maximum Audit Remuneration
1) Messrs Harwood, McLarty, Mavor and McQuattie 
resigned on 26 March 2004
2) Messrs Beckers, Deighton and Ripoll were 
appointed on 26 March 2004
3) Mr Heese was appointed on 25 May 2004
4) Mr Navarro was appointed on 16 June 2004
5) Mr Beckers was appointed non-executive on 26 
March 2004, changed role to executive director on 
25 May 2004 and resigned on 20 September 2004
6) Attendance for parts of the meeting was at the 
request of the Committee
7) The Nomination committee has not met during the year
Committees of the Board
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the two non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr Deighton. It meets at
least twice a year with the external auditors, with the Group Finance Director attending by invitation. If
appropriate, the external auditors attend part of each Committee meeting without the presence of the Group
Finance Director for independent discussions. The chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on
matters discussed at Committee meetings. The composition of the Committee has not complied during the
year with provision D 2.1 of the Combined Code, which requires at least three non-executive directors.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the two non-executive directors and the Chief Executive Officer. It
is chaired by Mr Deighton and is responsible for nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board.
Formal selection criteria and procedures are agreed in advance of any new appointment. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr Deighton. It
advises the Board on executive remuneration policy and, in particular, makes recommendations regarding
terms of employment of executive directors, their remuneration and the awarding of options and other
incentives. The Board has approved terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee. No director is
involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Committee's report is given on pages 15 to 18.
JL Ripoll 9 9 N/a N/a
PJ Carter 22 23 1 
(6)
2 
(6)
PRG Newman 22 23 N/a N/a
SA Embley 22 23 N/a N/a
S Beckers 8 9 - 2
GC Harwood 10 14 N/a 4 
(6)
SW McLarty 14 14 N/a N/a
GKT Deighton 9 9 1 3
L Heese 5 5 - 1
JA Navarro 4 4 - -
IGF Mavor 14 14 1 5
IF McQuattie 12 14 1 5 Aukett Group Plc annual report and accounts 2004 21
Corporate 
governance
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2004
Relations with shareholders
The Company values dialogue with institutional and private shareholders. Various members of the Board
attended meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the year ended 30 September 2004 and
intend to continue this practice. The Board uses the Company's Annual General Meeting and meetings
with private client stockbrokers to communicate with private investors. In addition, the Company has a
website (www.aukett.com) through which shareholders can access information on the Group.
Internal Controls
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Company's (excluding joint ventures and
associate's) system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The provisions of the Combined
Code in respect of internal controls require that directors review all controls including operational,
compliance and risk management, as well as financial controls. The Company carries out regular reviews
of its database of risks and their associated internal controls. As a result of the analysis carried out during
the year ended 30 September 2004, changes have been made to the way in which the business is
managed and monitored. Procedures have been established and documented to review existing risks and
consider new risks whilst at the same time evaluating and managing them. Risk management and internal
control are regularly considered by Directors at Board meetings. Any such system of control is designed
to manage rather than eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have an internal audit function. This is presently not considered necessary given
the size of the Company and the close involvement of executive directors and senior management.
The main features of the Group's framework for internal control which operate within the established
organisation structure with formally defined areas of responsibility are:
  a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board;
  the monthly comparison of actual results and cash flow as compared with budget and forecasts 
prepared on a regular basis and broken down into business drivers;
  a review of performance against key business drivers on a weekly basis by the executive directors;
  the review of contract risk areas on a weekly basis by the executive directors and the regular 
consideration of key risks and risk management programmes by the full Board; 
  a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in place which cover authorisation, segregation of 
duties, recording of data and ownership;
  a project quality management system, certified under ISO9001 across much of the Group, which brings 
consistency and audit ability to the design process; and
  a health and safety policy, designed to provide and maintain safe, healthy working conditions, 
equipment and systems for all the Group's employees and to provide relevant information, training and 
supervision for this purpose.
Going Concern Basis
After making enquiries and as more fully described in note 1, the directors consider that the Group has
adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future so long as the Acquisition is approved by shareholders at the forthcoming EGM and
subsequently completes. The Directors believe that the transaction will be approved and consequently
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.