 Summit plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008/09
17
The Group is subject to the continuing requirements of AIM Rules and is committed to adhering to corporate governance standards appropriate for a group of
Summit's size. As an AIM-quoted company, the Group is not required to comply with the disclosure requirements of the Combined Code. As such, this section
provides general information on the Group's adoption of corporate governance but does not constitute full compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board
At 31 January 2009, the Board comprised four Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and three Executive Directors. This composition followed the
resignations on 29 August 2008 and 31 January 2009 of Darren Millington as Chief Financial Officer and Dr Colin Wall as Non-Executive Director and the
appointment on 17 November 2008 of Anthony Weir as Chief Financial Officer. Anthony Weir subsequently resigned as Chief Financial Officer on 23 March 2009,
post the period under review, to leave the Board comprising four Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. With the exceptions of Darren Millington
and Anthony Weir, all directors served throughout the period under review.
Directors' biographies are on page 14.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group and meets formally at least 10 times a year to set the overall direction and
strategy of the Group, to review scientific, operational and financial performance and to advise on management appointments. The Board has also convened
regularly by telephone conference to strategically review the activities of the business during its on-going work towards securing its longer-term financial future.
All key operational and investment decisions are subject to Board approval. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
There is a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman is responsible for overseeing the running of the Board, ensuring
that no individual or group dominates the Board's decision-making and ensuring that the Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed on matters. The Chief
Executive Officer has the responsibility for implementing the strategy of the board and managing the day-to-day business activities of the Group through his
chairmanship of the executive committee.
Of the four current Non-Executive Directors, Barry Price, Andrew Richards and George Elliott are considered to be independent, and all of whom are available to
meet shareholders on request. The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors are of sufficient competence and calibre to add strength and objectivity
to the Board.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by
shareholders at least once every three years.
Performance Evaluation
The Board has a process for evaluation of its own performance, that of its committee and individual Directors, including the Chairman. These evaluations are
carried out at least annually.
Board committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, each of which has formal terms of reference
approved by the Board.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
Audit Committee
During the financial year the Audit Committee comprised George Elliott (Chairman), Professor Stephen Davies and Andrew Richards. The Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation only.
The role of the committee includes:
  Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group;
  Reviewing accounting polices, accounting treatment and disclosures in the financial reports;
  Reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems; and
  Overseeing the Groups relationship with external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or re-appointment of the
external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors' independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
Remuneration Committee
During the financial year the Remuneration Committee comprised Colin Wall (Chairman), George Elliott and Andrew Richards. Other Directors are able to attend
the meeting by invitation only. Subsequent to Colin Wall's resignation on 31 January 2009, Andrew Richards has assumed the role of Chairman.
The role of the Committee includes:
  Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all Directors.
  Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each Executive Director; performance conditions which are to apply.
  Determining bonuses payable under the Group's cash bonus scheme.
  Determining the vesting of awards under the Group's long term incentive plans and exercise of share option.
The Directors' Remuneration Report is presented on pages 19 to 21.
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 January 2009 Summit plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008/09
18
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 January 2009
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprised Barry Price (Chairman), Professor Stephen Davies and Colin Wall. The Combined Code requires there to be a formal,
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria. Given the reduction
in the number of Directors during the period under review the Board agreed that the work of the Nominations Committee in reviewing the composition, balance
and skills of the Board together with the appointment of new Directors and re-appointment and orderly succession of existing Directors, will be assumed by the
full Board in the future.
The terms of reference for all committees are available on the request from the Company Secretary.
Attendance at Board meetings and committees
The Directors attended the following Board meetings and committees during the year:
Attendance Board Remuneration Nominations Audit
Barry Price 11/11 - 2/2 -
George Elliott 9/11 2/2 - 3/3
Andrew Richards 11/11 2/2 - 2/3
Steven Lee 11/11 - --
Richard Storer 11/11 - - -
Darren Millington - resigned on 29 August 2008 5/5 - - -
Stephen Davies 9/11 - 2/2 3/3
Colin Wall - resigned on 31 January 2009 9/11 2/2 1/2 -
Anthony Weir - appointed on 17 November 2008,
resigned on 23 March 2009 2/2 ---
Risk management and internal control
The Risk Committee is responsible for the development of a risk management strategy within the Group. The committee is also responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
The Risk Committee is chaired by George Elliott and comprises of Andrew Richards, Richard Storer and senior staff representing human resources and finance.
Summit has an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of reporting and responsibility. The structure is reviewed regularly to ensure appropriate levels
of delegation and authority. All Group employees are required to adhere to specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures.
Although the Company does not have an internal audit function, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance
controls during the year and is satisfied that these have been followed during the year.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises the growing awareness of social, environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to take into account the interest of the Group's
stakeholders, including its investors, employees, suppliers and business partners, when operating the business.
Employment
The Board recognises its legal responsibility to ensure the well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and maintain a safe and healthy working environment
for them and for its visitors. Health and safety is a regular agenda item for Board meetings.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the important of communication with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood and that its remains
accountable to shareholders. Our website, www.summitplc.com, has a section dedicated to investor matters and provides useful information for the Company's
owners.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, while the Chairman and Chief Executive ensure that
the views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole. The Board ensures that the Group's strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in
terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value. Interim Statements and fully audited Annual Reports will be sent to shareholders and are available on
the Company's website.
Shareholders are welcome to attend the Group's Annual General Meeting (AGM), where they have the opportunity to meet the Board. All shareholders will have
at least 21 days' notice of the AGM at which the Directors will be available to discuss aspects of the Group's performance and question management in more detail.