 Ensuring we deliver  
environmental solutions
We are committed to satisfying our corporate and social responsibilities.  
We remain active in developing our people, building more experienced teams, 
and as always, constantly trying to improve our green credentials.
Transport
Transport is acknowledged as a considerable creator of CO
2
 emissions. 
All Superglass products are already compressed for deliveries which 
increases the amount of material on each vehicle. 
A key project in 2013 is the delivery of additional benefits for increased 
compression in packaging. It is estimated that through this project 
400,000 road miles can be eliminated as we deliver larger payloads 
to our customers.
Our people 
We are proud of our employees and recognise the role they play in the success 
of the business. 
Through employee commitment and accountability our aim is for our people 
to associate their personal contribution with the success of our business.
Continuous improvement of employee capability through training and 
development activities is an important part of our people strategy. 
Our employees are committed to the success of the Company. 
The leadership team works hard to develop employee engagement 
programmes and bring out the best from every employee. 
Business strategy and goals are communicated directly to each and every 
employee. Their contributions to the development of business plans are 
under written by department and personal objectives. Recognising and 
rewarding individuals based on their personal performance is at the 
heart of our people strategy.
Policies and procedures support and communicate our business values. 
They support our commitment to be a responsible employer, treating 
our employees in a fair and sympathetic manner.
We are an equal opportunities employer and are committed to providing 
employment regardless of sex, marital status, race, religion, disability or 
age. Similarly we are committed to providing a workplace free from bullying, 
harassment and discrimination.
1. Our sustainable process
The protection of the environment is a key 
business philosophy at Superglass. As a leading 
manufacturer and supplier of glass mineral fibre 
insulation the Company recognises its responsibility 
to the environment and aims to be a proponent 
of sustainable management.
2. Our product
By virtue of its inherent properties Superglass 
insulation is a carbon saving product. We are 
proud of the fact that our product contains very 
high levels of recycled bottles which otherwise 
may be disposed of, ultimately in landfill.
3. Melting process
The furnaces are fired with a mix of liquid oxygen 
and gas. The resulting waste gases minimise the 
nitrogen oxides reaching the atmosphere.
Recycling: There are three 
important recycling activities under 
development within Project Phoenix:
8 Superglass Holdings Plc annual report and accounts 2012
Corporate social responsibility
Business review In 2012 we supported our team leaders through an Institute of Leadership 
and Management (ILM) accredited development programme, recognising 
the importance of first line management in leading teams to success.
We will recruit and hire new capabilities when key skills and knowledge cannot 
be developed within. We commit to recruit and promote employees on the 
sole basis of suitability for the job based on our policy of equal opportunities.
Our community
Our local community is important to us. We continue to listen to the views and 
needs of our community and are continually finding new ways to increase 
our contribution within the community.
Health and safety
We continue to strive to reach the highest standards of health and safety. 
Prevention of accidents, including personal injury, is essential to the success 
of the business and Directors and employees alike accept and deliver their 
collective responsibilities.
The Board and Executive team believes that the health and safety of its employees 
is paramount and demonstrate commitment to health and safety by monitoring 
the Company performance.
Our policy is:
 e to provide adequate control of the health and safety risks arising 
from our work activities;
 e to consult with our employees on matters affecting their health 
and safety;
 e to provide and maintain safe plant and equipment;
 e to ensure safe handling and use of substances;
 e to provide information, instruction and supervision for employees;
 e
to ensure all employees are competent to carry out their tasks, 
and to give them adequate training;
 e to prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health; and
 e to maintain safe and healthy working conditions.
Last year delivered a significant improvement in safety performance. 
We aim to target zero accidents. Eliminating all 
accidents through improved understanding of risk 
and the creation of standard ways of working. The 
development of a safety culture in which everyone 
engages in the continuous improvement of our 
safety performance.
Health and safety
We acknowledge that our company and our people 
are part of our local community and have taken 
our first steps towards building relationships 
within that community.
Community engagement
9 Superglass Holdings Plc annual report and accounts 2012
Overview Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Health and safety continued
The improved safety performance is a result of the high priority to safety 
demonstrated by management along with a number of creative safety 
improvement programmes. A combination of embedding safe operating 
procedures (SOPs) and creating a behavioural safety culture  where 
everyone is expected to contribute to elimination of hazards continues 
to reduce our accident rate. 
In the year ended 31 August 2012 there has been a 20% reduction in 
accidents as a whole, with a 60% reduction in reportable accidents with only 
two reported in the year. This continues the trend from the previous year 
where there was a 15% reduction in all accidents and a 28% reduction in 
reportable accidents from the accident rate during financial year 2009-10. 
Environmental responsibility
We fully embrace our responsibility toward protecting the environment by 
minimising the impact upon it from our activities. Superglass operates in 
compliance with the Pollution Prevention and Control (PPC) legislation and 
has been granted certification by the Scottish Environmental Protection 
Agency (SEPA). 
Superglass recognises the process of manufacturing glass fibre insulation 
has potential environmental impacts, particularly in relation to carbon dioxide 
and other emissions. 
However, the carbon saved in the lifetime of the finished product once 
installed in a construction can be up to 200 times that used in its production. 
A further consequence of the manufacturing process includes the creation 
of waste water and other materials, either from production or in relation to 
packaging. By the end of 2012, Project Phoenix will deliver a very significant 
reduction in process waste with an equally significant reduction in the 
environmental impact from waste sent to landfill.
Project Phoenix will also significantly improve energy efficiency within 
the process, reducing carbon emissions per tonne of output. 
The Group is committed to the prevention of pollution. Steps are taken 
to monitor and report all emissions from its manufacturing process. 
 The Group considers that glass mineral fibre is one of the most sustainable 
insulation products available. Sourcing glass bottle cullet through a locally 
based partner, Viridor, means 84% of the finished product consists 
of 100% recycled glass bottles.  
Our Green credentials
Using recycled materials
Controlling CO
2
 emissions
Reducing waste
Protection of the environment is a key business 
philosophy. We accept our responsibility toward 
protecting the environment by minimising the 
impact upon it from our activities. Superglass 
operates in compliance with the Pollution 
Prevention and Control (PPC) legislation and 
has been granted certification by the Scottish 
Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA).
10 Superglass Holdings Plc annual report and accounts 2012
Business review
Corporate social responsibility continued Equally it is committed to demonstrate continuous improvement in process 
efficiencies, use of resources and emissions to the environment. To this end 
the Group undertakes regular emissions testing outwith the statutory testing 
cycle to keep our emissions under regular review.
The Group considers that glass mineral fibre is one of the most sustainable 
insulation products available. Sourcing glass bottle cullet through a locally 
based partner, Viridor, means 84% of the finished product consists of 100% 
recycled glass bottles.
Environmental performance is monitored by the Board and Executive. 
Emissions are particularly monitored to ensure compliance with authorised 
limits. Targets for continuous improvement are set within annual objectives 
and best practice is at the centre of our environmental policy.
The Group will involve and communicate with relevant local authority 
offices and regulatory officials and respond positively to concerns raised.
Ethical code of conduct
We set ourselves the highest standards of business conduct and ethics. 
Policies and business procedures are continually being developed and 
updated to ensure compliance with legal requirements. 
Superglass strives to meet high standards of performance and behaviour 
based on the Group's core values of business conduct, including personal 
integrity and social responsibility.
The Group is committed to creating long-term value for its customers, 
shareholders, employees and society, recognising that sustainable profit 
is essential for the continuity of its business.
We believe it is our responsibility to provide customers with products and 
services that offer value in terms of price and quality and that meet high 
health, safety and environmental standards.
We are focused on promoting the high recycled content of our products. 
Recycling takes place in various forms and certain points throughout 
our manufacturing process.
 The Group is committed to 
creating long-term value for 
its customers, shareholders, 
employees and society, 
recognising that sustainable 
profit is essential for the 
continuity of its business. 
Our employees remain our most important asset. 
Delivering increased employee engagement is a 
strategic priority, with ownership, involvement 
and accountability for employees across all 
areas of the business.
Our people
11 Superglass Holdings Plc annual report and accounts 2012
Overview Business review Corporate governance Financial statements