 2007
17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to high standards of
corporate governance, and the Board is accountable to
the Company's shareholders for maintaining these
standards. This statement describes how the principles of
corporate governance are applied to the Company and its
compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code.
STATEMENT ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS
OF THE COMBINED CODE
The Company has been in full compliance with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
throughout the year, with the following exceptions:
  The Board considers the Chairman to be an
independent non-executive Director and, due to the
size of the Company, the Chairman is a member of the
Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board also considers R T Organ to be an
independent non-executive Director, notwithstanding
his length of service on the Board, his independence
being demonstrated by the challenging and constructive
thinking he brings to the Board.
  Formal evaluations of the performance of the Board
and the Chairman were not documented during the
last 12 months but informal appraisals were undertaken.
  The non-executive Directors meet from time to time
separately from the executive Directors. These
meetings are not formally documented.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Communications with shareholders are given high
priority.  The Operating and Financial reviews on pages 4
to 7 include a detailed review of the business and future
developments.  There is regular dialogue with institution-
al and other major shareholders including presentations
after the Company's announcement of preliminary year
end and interim results.  The Board also uses the Annual
General Meeting to communicate with private and institu-
tional investors and welcomes their participation.  All
Directors will be available to answer questions at the
Annual General Meeting on 8 November 2007 and the
resolutions to be proposed can be found on the separate
circular sent to shareholders with a copy of this Report
and Accounts.  The Chairman and non-executive
Directors meet shareholders as requested.  They also use
the Company's broker and informal discussions after the
Annual General Meeting to maintain open routes of com-
munication with shareholders.
THE WORKINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
The Board
The Board currently comprises an independent non-
executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two other
executive Directors and two other non-executive
Directors.  The biographies appearing on page 10
demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre
to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct that
are vital to the success of the Group. The Board is
responsible to shareholders for the proper management
of the Group.  A statement of the Directors' responsibili-
ties in respect of the accounts is set out on page 13 and
a statement of going concern on page 7.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and
there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved
for decision by the Board. Each executive Director has
been given responsibility for specific aspects of the
Group's affairs and independent advice is available to all
Directors. Appropriate training is given when Directors are
appointed to the Board. The following represents a
summary of matters reserved for decision by the Board:
  The approval of financial statements and significant
accounting policies.
  The approval of interim and the recommendation of
final dividends.
  The appointment, removal and remuneration of
auditors, based on recommendations from the Audit
Committee.
  Approval of circulars, listing particulars and other
Stock Exchange documentation.
  Approval of the Group's strategy and annual operating
budgets.
  Changes relating to the Group's capital structure and
financing arrangements.
  Board appointments and removals, including the
Company Secretary.
  Remuneration of Directors and other senior executives.
  Terms of reference and membership of board
committees.
  Major investments and divestments.
  All other matters that have a material impact on the
Group in accordance with the Group's approval
process.
The Board generally meets every four weeks to review
trading performance, set and monitor strategy, approve
matters reserved for decision by the Board and to ensure
that adequate funding exists.  All Directors are supplied
with information in a manner to enable the Board to
discharge its duties.  The attendance at meetings held
during the year to 30 June 2007 for each of the Directors
is as follows:
Nomi- Remu-
Board nation neration Audit
Meetings Committee Committee Committee
S J Winning 12 - 5 3
J M Fletcher 12 -- -
P R V Houston 12 - *1 *3
I A Mackinnon 12 - *4 *3
R T Organ 12 -5 3
J A Wardell 12 -5 3
Numbers of 
meetings 12 -5 3
* in attendance only 2007
18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman
and includes the other two non-executive Directors
together with the Chief Executive Officer.  The Committee
is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment
to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure
of the Board.  In appropriate cases recruitment
consultants are used to assist the process.  The terms of
reference of the Nomination Committee are published on
the Group's web site.  All Directors are subject to
re-election at least every three years.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are S J Winning
(chair), R T Organ and J A Wardell.  It meets at least twice
a year to review the Group's accounting policies and
reporting procedures, external audit reports and other
relevant matters.  The external auditors, Group Finance
Director and Chief Executive Officer are also invited to
attend but are not entitled to vote.  The terms of reference
of the Audit Committee are published on the Group's web
site.  The Group receives non-audit services such as
taxation and other consultancy advice from the Group's
auditors.  The Audit Committee assesses the independ-
ence of the external auditors by means of an internal
review of relationships with the auditors together with a
review of an annual independence report issued by the
Auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by R T Organ
and includes the other two non-executive Directors.  The
Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director
attend the Remuneration Committee meetings by
invitation but are not entitled to vote.  The Committee
reviews the terms and conditions of service of executive
Directors, and ensures that salaries, bonuses and share
option awards satisfy any relevant performance criteria.
Further details of the Group's remuneration policies are
given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 14
to 16, and the terms of reference of the Remuneration
Committee are published on the Group's web site.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such
a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.  The key
procedures established are as follows:
  Responsibility levels, the ethos of the Group, the
delegation of authority and other control procedures,
together with appropriate accounting policies, are
communicated throughout the Group.
  The Group appoints experienced and professional
staff of the necessary calibre, both through promotion
and recruitment, to fulfil their responsibilities. The Group
also carries out comprehensive training programmes.
  The Group maintains an annual budget process. The
Board sets budgets once per year and monitors actual
performance against those budgets every four weeks.
The Board also reviews forecasts and expectations in
the light of up-to-date circumstances and takes action
as appropriate. 
  The Audit Committee considers significant control
matters. Management letter points raised by the
external auditors are discussed by the Audit
Committee and are dealt with as appropriate.
 The Group maintains an expenditure approval process
that ensures that the Board approves major 
expenditure and investments.
  The Board undertakes a review of internal controls
annually.
The Group implemented the Turnbull guidance during
2000 and has continued in compliance during the year
under review.
The Board has implemented the guidance Internal
Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code ,
and has procedures in place for regular risk management
reviews. These reviews focus on risk assessment, risk
management and corrective actions, and are carried out
by the main Board directly with senior managers who are
actively encouraged to embed the process throughout
their organisations. The reviews are conducted annually
for Sales, Technical, Operations, Environmental, Finance
and IT matters, and twice yearly for Health and Safety
matters.  The whole process is reviewed annually together
with a further summary assessment of the major risks
facing the business.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit
function and has concluded that, because of the size of
the Group, it cannot be justified at present.  The Board
intend to review this decision each year.