 16
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Group is committed to high standards 
of corporate governance, and the Board is 
accountable to the Group's shareholders for 
maintaining these standards.  This statement 
describes how the principles of corporate 
governance are applied to the Group and its 
compliance with the provisions set out in Section 
1 of the Combined Code.
Statement on Compliance with the 
Provisions of the Combined Code
The Group has been in full compliance with the 
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined 
Code throughout the year, with the following 
exceptions:
The Board considers the Chairman to be an   
independent non-executive Director and, 
due to the size of the Company, the Chairman 
is a member of the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.  The Board also 
considers R T Organ to be an independent non-
executive Director, notwithstanding his length 
of service on the Board.  His independence 
is demonstrated by the challenging and 
constructive thinking he brings to the Board.
Formal evaluations of the performance   
of the Board and the Chairman were not 
documented during the last 12 months but 
informal appraisals were undertaken.
The non-executive Directors meet from time to   
time separately from the executive Directors.  
These meetings are not formally documented.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given 
high priority.  The Chief Executive Officer's 
and Financial reviews on pages 4 to 7 include 
a detailed review of the business and future 
developments.  There is regular dialogue with 
institutional and other major shareholders 
including presentations after the Company's 
announcement of preliminary and interim results.  
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting 
to communicate with private and institutional 
investors and welcomes their participation.  All 
Directors will be available to answer questions 
at the Annual General Meeting on 6 November 
2008 and the resolutions to be proposed can 
be found on the separate circular sent to 
shareholders with a copy of this Report and 
Accounts.  The Chairman and non-executive 
Director meet shareholders as requested.  They 
also use the Company's broker and informal 
discussions after the Annual General Meeting, 
to maintain open routes of communication with 
shareholders.  All presentations to shareholders 
are shown in the investors section of the Group's 
web-site.
The Workings of the Board and its 
Committees
The Board
The Board currently comprises a non-executive 
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two 
other executive Directors and one other non-
executive Director.  The biographies appearing 
on page 10 demonstrate a range of experience 
and sufficient calibre to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of conduct that are 
vital to the success of the Group.  The Board 
is responsible to shareholders for the proper 
management of the Group.  A statement of 
the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the 
accounts is set out on page 13 and a statement 
of going concern on page 7.
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group and there is a formal schedule of 
matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board.  Each executive Director has been given 
responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's 
affairs and independent advice is available 
to all Directors.  Appropriate training is given 
when Directors are appointed to the Board.  
The following represents a summary of matters 
reserved for decision by the Board:
The approval of financial statements and   
significant accounting policies;
The approval of interim and the   
recommendation of final dividends;
The appointment, removal and remuneration   
of auditors, based on recommendations from 
the Audit Committee;
Approval of circulars, listing particulars and   
other Stock Exchange documentation;
Approval of the Group's strategy and annual   
operating budgets;
Changes relating to the Group's capital   
structure and financing arrangements;
Board appointments and removals, including   
the Company Secretary;
Remuneration of Directors and other senior   
executives;
Terms of reference and membership of board   
committees;
Major investments and divestments; and   
All other matters that have a material impact   
on the Group in accordance with the Group's 
approval process.
The Board generally meets every four weeks to 
review trading performance, set and monitor 
strategy, approve matters reserved for decision 
by the Board and to ensure that adequate 
funding exists.  All Directors are supplied with 
information in a manner to enable the Board to 
discharge its duties.  The attendance at meetings 
Report and Accounts 08 V5.indd   16 6/10/08   14:04:50 17
annual report and accounts 2008
swallowfield
held during the year to 30 June 2008 for each of 
the Directors is as follows:
  Nomi- Remu- 
 Board nation neration Audit
 Meetings Committee Committee Committe
S J Winning 13 - 2 2
J M Fletcher 12 - - -
P R V Houston 13 - - *2
I A Mackinnon 13 - *1 *2
R T Organ 12 - 2 2
J A Wardell** - - 1 -
Numbers of  
meetings 13 - 2 2
* in attendance only
**J A Wardell resigned as a director on 6 November 2007.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the 
Chairman and includes the other non-executive 
Director together with the Chief Executive Officer.  
The Committee is responsible for proposing 
candidates for appointment to the Board, having 
regard to the balance and structure of the Board.  
In appropriate cases recruitment consultants are 
used to assist the process.  The terms of reference 
of the Nomination Committee are published on 
the Group's web site.  All Directors are subject to 
re-election at least every three years.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are S J 
Winning (chair), and R T Organ.  It meets at least 
twice a year to review the Group's accounting 
policies and reporting procedures, external audit 
reports and other relevant matters.  The external 
auditors, Group Finance Director and Chief 
Executive Officer are also invited to attend but are 
not entitled to vote.  The terms of reference of the 
Audit Committee are published on the Group's 
web site.  The Group receives non-audit services 
such as taxation and other consultancy advice 
from the Group's auditors.  The Audit Committee 
assesses the independence of the external auditors 
by means of an internal review of relationships with 
the auditors together with a review of an annual 
independence report issued by the Auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by R 
T Organ and includes the other non-executive 
Director.  The Chief Executive Officer and Group 
Finance Director attend the Remuneration 
Committee meetings by invitation but are not 
entitled to vote.  The Committee reviews the 
terms and conditions of service of executive 
Directors, and ensures that salaries, bonuses 
and share option awards satisfy any relevant 
performance criteria.  Further details of the 
Group's remuneration policies are given in the 
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 15, 
and the terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee are published on the Group's web site.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's 
system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness.  Such a system can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.  The key 
procedures established are as follows:
Responsibility levels, the ethos of the Group,   
the delegation of authority and other control 
procedures, together with appropriate 
accounting policies, are communicated 
throughout the Group.
The Group appoints experienced and   
professional staff of the necessary calibre, both 
through promotion and recruitment, to fulfil 
their responsibilities.  The Group also carries out 
comprehensive training programmes.
The Group maintains an annual budget   
process.  The Board sets budgets once per 
year and monitors actual performance against 
those budgets every four weeks.  The Board 
also reviews forecasts and expectations in the 
light of up-to-date circumstances and takes 
action as appropriate. 
The Audit Committee considers significant control   
matters.  Management letter points raised by 
the external auditors are discussed by the Audit 
Committee and are dealt with as appropriate.
The Group maintains an expenditure approval   
process that ensures that the Board approves 
major expenditure and investments.
The Board undertakes a review of internal   
controls annually.
The Group implemented the Turnbull guidance 
during 2000 and has continued in compliance 
during the year under review.
The Board has implemented the guidance 
Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on 
the Combined Code , and has procedures 
in place for regular risk management reviews.  
These reviews focus on risk assessment, risk 
management and corrective actions, and are 
carried out by the main Board directly with 
senior managers who are actively encouraged 
to embed the process throughout their 
departments.  The reviews are conducted 
annually for Sales, Technical, Operations, 
Environmental, Finance and IT matters, and twice 
yearly for Health and Safety matters.  The whole 
process is reviewed annually together with a 
further summary assessment of the major risks 
facing the business.
The Board has considered the need for an 
internal audit function and has concluded that, 
because of the size of the Group, it cannot be 
justified at present.  The Board intend to review 
this decision each year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Report and Accounts 08 V5.indd   17 6/10/08   14:04:50