 Statement on Compliance with the 
Provisions of the Combined Code
The Group has been in full compliance with the 
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code 
throughout the year , with the following exceptions:
  The Board considers the Chairman to be an 
independent non-executive Director and, due to  
the size of the Company, the Chairman is a  
member of the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.  The Board also 
considers R T Organ to have been an independent 
non-executive Director, not withstanding his length  
of service on the Board.  His independence is  
demonstrated by the challenging and constructive  
thinking he brings to the Board.  R T Organ is 
planning to resign as a director in October 2009.
  Formal evaluations of the performance of the 
Board and the Chairman were not documented 
during the last 12 months but informal appraisals 
were undertaken.
  The non-executive Directors meet from time to 
time separately from the executive Directors.  
These meetings are not formally documented.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given 
high priority.  The Chief Executive Officer's and 
Financial reviews on pages 10 to 17 include 
a detailed review of the business and future 
developments.  There is regular dialogue with 
institutional and other major shareholders 
including presentations after the Group's 
announcement of preliminary and interim results.  
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting 
to communicate with private and institutional 
investors and welcomes their participation.  All 
Directors will be available to answer questions at 
the Annual General Meeting on 5 November 2009 
and the resolutions to be proposed can be found 
on the separate circular sent to shareholders 
with a copy of this Report and Accounts.  The 
Chairman and non-executive Directors meet and 
communicate with shareholders as requested.  
They also use the Group's broker and informal 
discussions after the Annual General Meeting, 
to maintain open routes of communication with 
shareholders.  All presentations to shareholders 
are shown in the investors section of the Group's 
web site.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, 
and the Board is accountable to the Group's shareholders for 
maintaining these standards.  This statement describes how the principles 
of corporate governance are applied to the Group and its compliance 
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
swallowfield     report and accounts 2009
30   The approval of financial statements and 
significant accounting policies;
  The approval of interim and the recommendation  
of final dividends;
  The appointment, removal and remuneration  
of auditors, based on recommendations from 
the Audit Committee;
  Approval of circulars, listing particulars and 
other Stock Exchange documentation;
  Approval of the Group's strategy and annual 
operating budgets;
  Changes relating to the Group's capital 
structure and financing arrangements;
  Board appointments and removals, including 
the Company Secretary;
  Remuneration of Directors and other senior 
executives;
  Terms of reference and membership of  
board committees;
  Major investments and divestments; and 
  All other matters that have a material impact 
on the Group in accordance with the Group's 
approval process.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board currently comprises an independent non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, 
two other executive Directors and two other non-executive Directors.  The biographies appearing 
on pages 22 and 23 demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct that are vital to 
the success of the Group.  The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the 
Group.  A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 26 and 
a statement of going concern on page 17.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for decision by the Board.  Each executive Director has been given responsibility for specific 
aspects of the Group's affairs and independent advice is available to all Directors.  Appropriate training 
is given when Directors are appointed to the Board.  The following represents a summary of matters 
reserved for decision by the Board:
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman and includes the other non-executive Directors 
together with the Chief Executive Officer.  The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for 
appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.  In appropriate cases 
recruitment consultants are used to assist the process.  The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee 
are published on the Group's web site.  All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Board generally meets every four weeks to review trading performance, set and monitor strategy, 
approve matters reserved for decision by the Board and to ensure that adequate funding exists.  All 
Directors are supplied with information in a manner to enable the Board to discharge its duties.  The 
attendance at meetings held during the year to 30 June 2009 for each of the Directors is as follows:
 Board Nomination Remuneration Audit
 Meetings Committee Committee Committee
S J Winning 12 3 3 2
J M Fletcher  12 - - -
P S Gaynor 9 - 2 1
P R V Houston 12 - *1 *2
I A Mackinnon 12 3 *3 *2
R T Organ 11 3 3 2
Numbers of meetings 12 3 3 2
* in attendance only
31
swallowfield     report and accounts 2009 Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are S J Winning  
(chair), R T Organ and P S Gaynor. It meets at least 
twice a year to review the Group's accounting 
policies and reporting procedures, external audit 
reports and other relevant matters.  The external 
auditors, Group Finance Director and Chief 
Executive Officer are also invited to attend but 
are not entitled to vote.  The terms of reference of  
the Audit Committee are published on the 
Group's web site. The Group receives non-audit 
services such as taxation and other consultancy 
advice from the Group's auditors.  The Audit 
Committee assesses the independence of the 
external auditors by means of an internal review 
of relationships with the auditors together with a 
review of an annual independence report issued 
by the Auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by  
P S Gaynor and includes the other non-executive 
Directors.  The Chief Executive Officer and Group 
Finance Director attend the Remuneration 
Committee meetings by invitation but are not 
entitled to vote.  The Committee reviews the terms  
and conditions of service of executive Directors, 
and ensures that salaries, bonuses and share 
option awards satisfy any relevant performance 
criteria.  Further details of the Group's remuneration  
policies are given in the Directors' Remuneration 
Report on pages 27 to 29, and the terms of 
reference of the Remuneration Committee are 
published on the Group's web site.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  
Such a system can only provide reasonable and  
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.  The key procedures 
established are as follows:
  Responsibility levels, the ethos of the Group, the  
delegation of authority and other control 
procedures, together with appropriate accounting  
policies, are communicated throughout the Group.
  The Group appoints experienced and 
professional staff of the necessary calibre, both 
through promotion and recruitment, to fulfil 
their responsibilities.  The Group also carries out 
comprehensive training programmes.
  The Group maintains an annual budget process.  
The Board sets budgets once per year and 
monitors actual performance against those 
budgets every four weeks.  The Board also 
reviews forecasts and expectations in the light 
of up-to-date circumstances and takes action 
as appropriate. 
  The Audit Committee considers significant control 
matters.  Management letter points raised by 
the external auditors are discussed by the Audit 
Committee and are dealt with as appropriate.
  The Group maintains an expenditure approval 
process that ensures that the Board approves 
major expenditure and investments.
  The Board undertakes a review of internal 
controls annually.
The Group implemented the Turnbull guidance 
during 2000 and has continued with compliance 
during the year under review.
The Board has implemented the guidance  
Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code , and has procedures in place 
for regular risk management reviews.  These reviews 
focus on risk assessment, risk management and 
corrective actions, and are carried out by the main 
Board directly with senior managers who are actively 
encouraged to embed the process throughout  
their departments.  The reviews are conducted 
annually for Sales, Technical, Operations, 
Environmental, Finance and IT matters, and twice 
yearly for Health and Safety matters.  The whole 
process is reviewed annually together with a 
further summary assessment of the major risks 
facing the business.
The Board has considered the need for an internal 
audit function and has concluded that, because 
of the size of the Group, it cannot be justified at 
present.  The Board intends to review this decision 
each year.
swallowfield     report and accounts 2009
32