 Highlights About Our 
Business
Chairman's 
Statement
Finance Director's
Report
Directors
and Advisers
Financials
Autoclenz Holdings Plc 
Annual Report 2007
Corporate Governance Report
17
Introduction
The Board recognises its accountability to Shareholders and is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance. Whilst the Group is
not required under the AIM Rules to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as updated in June 2006, the Group Board recognises
the value of the Combined Code and has taken steps to comply with the Combined Code as far as is practicable and appropriate for a public Company 
of its size and nature.
Directors
The Group Board meets monthly throughout the year. The Executive Directors together with the Senior Management of Autoclenz Ltd meet formally 
as a Management Team on a monthly basis. These Executive Management Meetings consider and review the operational and financial management 
and performance of the Group, receive reports from the Key Managers for their respective areas of responsibility, discuss significant issues and
determine any appropriate action to be taken.
There are formal delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, specifically Audit and Remuneration.
Attendance at meetings during the year to 31 December was as follows:
Maximum
Actual Possible
Name Attendance Attendance
John Bell   Non-Executive 14 15
Michael Stone   Non-Executive 12 15
Grahame Rummery   Chief Executive 14 14
Trevor Clingo   Finance Director 13 14
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership
and effective working of the Board and to ensure that each Director is able to make an effective contribution to the Board. The Chief Executive is
responsible for the management of the Company, implementing policies and strategies determined by the Board.
Board Balance and Independence
The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, one Non-Executive Director and two Executive Directors. The Board Members have not changed
during the year, details of the Board are set out on pages 12 and 13.
The Group Board considers that the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Director are independent of the Executive Directors and are free
from any business or other relationships that might materially interfere with their exercise of independent judgement. The Non-Executive Chairman and
the Non-Executive Director bring experience at a senior level of business operations, finance and strategy.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at Stanhope Road, Swadlincote, DE11 9BE.
Appointments to the Board
There have been no appointments to the Board during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Currently there is no nominations committee and, therefore, the Group does not comply with the Combined Code in this respect. The Group does not
feel, given their size, there is a need for a nominations committee currently but will review the situation periodically.
Information and Professional Development
All Directors are encouraged to keep up to date on all matters relevant to the Group and attend briefings and meetings as appropriate.
Each Director is entitled on request to receive information to enable him to make informed judgements and adequately discharge his duties. In addition,
all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Senior Managers generally and may take independent professional
advice at the Company's expense in connection with their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with.
14807 16/04/2008 Proof 5
14807AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/08  19:54  Page 17 Corporate Governance Report continued
18
Performance Evaluation
Performance evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee and Senior Management of the Company is done in-house.
This approach is periodically reviewed to confirm whether further external evaluation is necessary.
Re-election
All Directors sought re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 2007. At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting both the Non-Executive Chairman
and the Non-Executive Director will seek re-election. The Board strongly supports their re-election, as the Board considers that they remain independent
and they continue to fulfil their respective roles to the highest standard providing appropriate support and direction to the Company.
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr Bell and Mr Stone. Mr Stone is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration
Committee meets as often as required and reviews the remuneration of the Executive Directors. The Committee operates within agreed terms of
reference and utilises the assistance of relevant professional advice to ensure the remuneration is commensurate with comparable companies.
Accountability and Audit 
Financial Reporting
The Board seeks to prevent a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects through the Chairman's and Chief
Executive's Statement, the Finance Director's Report and the Director's Report.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal financial and operational controls and the ongoing review of their effectiveness.
The controls are designed to safeguard the Group's assets and the investments of shareholders. However, any system of internal control can only
manage rather than eliminate risks and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group's key systems of control include:
Financial Reporting and Control
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results, covering profits, assets, liabilities, cash flow, capital expenditure and customer
profitability. The system includes constant monitoring of cash, monthly reporting of financial results and comparison with budgets. Budgets are prepared
annually for all divisions and reviewed by management and the Board. Regular management meetings are held to monitor performance against budgets,
progress in implementing planned changes and the operational efficiency of the businesses.
Investment Appraisal
All capital expenditure is authorised by the Board and monitored against an annual budget.
Disaster Recovery
The Group has established procedures over the security of data held on the IT systems and has put in place disaster recovery arrangements.
Identification of Risk
The Board is responsible for identifying the main business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate actions necessary to manage
those risks.
14807 14807 16/04/2008 Proof 5
14807AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/08  19:54  Page 18 Highlights About Our 
Business
Chairman's 
Statement
Finance Director's
Report
Directors
and Advisers
Financials
Autoclenz Holdings Plc 
Annual Report 2007 19
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Bell and Mr Stone and is chaired by Mr Stone, who is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales. The Committee met twice during the year ended 31 December 2007. The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which
includes reviewing the Group Annual Report, Financial Statements, Interim Statements and Preliminary Announcements before recommending their
approval to the Board. This process involves meeting with the external auditors to discuss issues relating to the audit and financial control of the Group.
The Group's external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and attended the two Audit Committee meetings held during 2007. The
Executive Directors attend the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
When appointing advisors for non-audit work the Group considers the value for money, experience and objectivity required and in this respect it has used
another accounting firm for most non-audit work. There has, however, been one occasion where the external auditors were used. On this occasion the
Chairman of the Audit Committee was consulted and approved the use of the external auditors for this non-audit work after considering and concluding
their objectivity and independence was not compromised.
The Board does not believe the present size of the Group justifies a dedicated internal audit function. However, the Board, and in particular the Audit
Committee, will continue to review the need to put in place an internal audit function taking into account the size and nature of the Group.
Relations and Shareholders
Relationships with Shareholders receive high priority, and meetings between the Executive Directors and institutional Shareholders will take place when
interim and final results are announced. In addition to this, the Non-Executive Directors make themselves available to attend meetings with major
shareholders. The Board is keen to communicate with private investors and welcomes the opportunity to meet with them at the Annual General
Meeting. The Executive Directors showcased the Company at the Growth Company Investor Show held in June 2007 at the Barbican. Invitations were
sent out to all Shareholders to attend, the Executive Directors were pleased to have the opportunity to meet and discuss the Company's aims with
many of them.
The Interim and Annual Reports are sent to all Shareholders. The Group Investor Relations website contains information on current activities, including
all the public reports prepared by the Company to date. The Company's website is www.autoclenz.co.uk 
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
All members of the Board attend the Annual General Meeting. All Directors are available to answer Shareholders questions at the meeting.
Notices of the meeting, together with the Annual Report and Financial Statements, are posted to Shareholders no less than 20 working days prior to
the date of the Annual General Meeting. The information sent to Shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at the Annual General
Meeting, where a separate resolution is prepared for each substantive matter. When a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received
for and against the resolutions and any abstentions are disclosed at the meeting and will be made available as soon as practicable after the meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communication between investors and Directors.
By Order of the Board
Trevor Clingo
Company Secretary
25 March 2008
14807 16/04/2008 Proof 5
14807AUTOCLEN:Layout 1  16/4/08  19:54  Page 19