 Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
There is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for 
individual shareholders to question the Chairman, the Chairmen of 
the Audit and Remuneration and Nomination committees, and the 
executive directors. Notice of the meeting is sent to shareholders at 
least 20 working days before the meeting. Shareholders are given 
the opportunity to vote on each separate issue. The Company counts 
all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each 
resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands. Details of 
the resolutions and explanations thereto are included with the notice. 
This year's meeting will be held at 12 noon on 11 November 2009 at 
Fasken Martineau LLP, 17 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HU.
Internal control
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the 
Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The main features of the internal control system are as follows:
l a control environment exists through the close management 
of the business by the executive directors. The Group has a 
defined organisational structure with delineated approval limits. 
Controls are implemented and monitored by personnel with the 
necessary qualifications and experience;
l a list of matters reserved for board approval;
l monthly management reporting and analysis of variances;
l financial risks for each major transaction are identified and 
evaluated by the Board; and
l standard financial controls operate to ensure that the assets of 
the Group are safeguarded and that proper accounting records 
are maintained.
Directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that show and explain the Company's transactions, disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 
the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for 
the financial year. The directors are required to prepare financial 
statements in accordance with the rules of the London Stock Exchange 
for companies trading securities on the Alternative Investment Market. 
The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the 
Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice. 
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
l select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
l make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
l for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU; 
l for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed; and
l prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and 
Company will continue in business.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Website Publication
The directors are responsible for ensuring the annual report and 
financial statements are made available on a website. Financial 
statements are published on the Group's website in accordance 
with AIM rules for companies and legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The maintenance and integrity of the Group's website is the 
responsibility of the directors. The directors' responsibility 
also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements 
contained therein. 
Going concern
The directors have prepared and reviewed financial forecasts. After 
due consideration of these forecasts and current cash resources, the 
directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate 
financial resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future (being a period of at least twelve months from the 
date of this report), and for this reason the financial statements have 
been prepared on a going concern basis. 
By order of the Board
John Ward
Company Secretary
3 September 2009 Synairgen plc annual report and accounts 2009 | 16-17  
Directors' Remuneration Report
This report is non-mandatory for AIM-quoted companies and has 
been produced on a voluntary basis. It is not intended to comply with 
the remuneration disclosure requirements of the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008.
Remuneration Committee
The Company's remuneration policy is the responsibility of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee (the  Committee'), which 
was established in October 2004. The composition and terms of 
reference of the Committee is outlined in the Corporate Governance 
Statement on page 15.
The Committee, which is required to meet at least twice a year, met 
three times during the year ended 30 June 2009. The Chairman and 
certain executives may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee 
to assist it with its deliberations but no executive is present when his or 
her own remuneration is discussed.
During the year, the Committee has been advised on executive director 
remuneration, including the 2008 Long- Term Incentive Plan ( LTIP') 
awards and the fair valuation of share-based payments, and the 
Synairgen Qualifying Non-Employee Option Scheme 2009 (see below) 
by its retained independent remuneration adviser, Hewitt New Bridge 
Street. No other advice has been provided to the Group by this firm 
during the year. 
Remuneration policy
(i) Executive remuneration
The Committee has a duty to establish a remuneration policy which 
will enable it to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre 
to run the Group. Its policy is to ensure that executive remuneration 
packages are appropriate given performance, scale of responsibility, 
experience, and consideration of the remuneration packages for 
similar executive positions in companies it considers are comparable. 
Packages are structured to motivate executives to achieve the highest 
level of performance in line with the best interests of shareholders. A 
significant element of the total remuneration package, in the form of 
bonus and LTIP awards, is performance driven. 
Executive remuneration currently comprises a base salary, an annual 
performance-related bonus, a pension contribution to the executive 
director's individual money purchase scheme (at 9% of base salary), 
family private health cover, permanent health and life assurance. 
Salaries and benefits are reviewed annually in July, taking into account 
Group and individual performance, external benchmark information 
and internal relativities. The Company operates a discretionary bonus 
scheme for executive directors with a maximum of 100% of base salary 
for delivery of exceptional performance against personal and corporate 
objectives. Bonuses payable to executive directors in respect of the year 
ended 30 June 2009 were 40% of base salary (2008: 10% of base salary), 
amounting to  48,000 (2008:  12,000) for Richard Marsden and 
 44,000 (2008:  11,000) for John Ward. Executive directors are also 
rewarded for improvements in the performance of the Group sustained 
over a period of years in the form of Long- Term Incentive Plan share 
awards granted on a discretionary basis by the Committee.
Directors' remuneration for the year to 30 June 2009 is set out on page 
19 of this document. The Committee has concluded that the salaries  
of the executive directors will again not be increased for the year to  
30 June 2010 and that their annual bonus potential will remain at 100% 
of base salary.
(ii) Chairman and non-executive director remuneration
The Chairman receives a fixed fee of  25,000 and his remuneration is 
reviewed periodically by the Committee. Currently, each of the non-
executive directors receives a fixed fee, which covers preparation for 
and attendance at meetings of the full Board and committees thereof. 
The Chairman and the executive directors are responsible for setting 
the level of non-executive remuneration. The non-executive directors 
are also reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred in attending 
meetings. The standard fixed fee for non-executive directors was 
reviewed for the first time and became  15,000 with effect from  
1 September 2009. In addition, a fee for chairing each of the audit and 
remuneration committees was introduced from that date of  5,000.
(iii) Equity-based incentive schemes
The Committee strongly believes that equity-based incentive 
schemes increase the focus of employees in improving Group 
performance, whilst at the same time providing a strong incentive 
for retaining and attracting individuals of a high calibre. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Synairgen Long- Term Incentive Plan, comprising conditional 
(performance-related) share awards (technically structured as 
nominal cost options pursuant to which participants must pay 1p per 
share on the exercise of their awards), was introduced in 2005 as the 
primary long-term incentive vehicle for executive directors. Senior 
executives and other employees may be granted an award which will 
normally vest if demanding performance conditions are achieved 
over a three-year period and if the grantee remains an employee 
of the Group. 
Grants under the LTIP in any financial year are capped at a maximum 
of 100% of base salary. In August 2008 Richard Marsden and John 
Ward were granted awards over shares worth 66% of base salary. 
Executive directors are expected to retain no fewer than 50% of shares 
acquired upon vesting of awards under the LTIP , net of taxes, until 
such time as, in combination with any other shares the executives 
may have acquired, they hold shares with a value equivalent to 100% 
of base salary. 
All awards will lapse at the end of the applicable performance period 
to the extent that the applicable performance criteria conditions have 
not been satisfied with no opportunity for retesting. In the event of 
a good leaver event or a change of control of the Company, the LTIP 
awards may vest early, but only to the extent that, in the opinion of the 
Committee, the performance conditions have been satisfied at that 
time. The awards will generally also be subject to a time pro-rated 
reduction to reflect the reduced period of time between the grant of 
the awards and the time of vesting although this reduction may not be 
applied in certain cases.