 The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management throughout
the Group. The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the
relevant principles of corporate governance are applied to the Group.
Combined Code 
The Board considers that based upon the information below and that included within the Report of the Remuneration Committee on
pages 16 to 19 and save as disclosed therein, throughout the year, the Group has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the
Combined Code of Corporate Governance appended to The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the  Combined Code')
except that the Board did not, during the year, consider it necessary to identify one of the Non-Executive Directors as the senior
independent Non-Executive Director. However, in view of the proposed appointment of Mr J Merry as Chairman, the Board is proposing
to appoint a senior independent Non-Executive Director prior to the AGM.
Board of Directors 
The Board comprises three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors. Their biographies appear on page 12. The five 
Non-Executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management. 
The following were Directors of the Company during the year:
Number of Board Meetings attended  
during the year ended 31 December 2002
--------------------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ----------
Mr R Heath   Non-Executive Chairman 5
Mr J Merry Deputy Chairman and Group Chief Executive 12
Mr G Guinchard   Group Managing Director 5
Mr P Nuttall Group Finance Director 11
Mr J Alexander Non-Executive Director 12
Mr J Hodges Non-Executive Director 12
Mr R Bellande Non-Executive Director 8
Mr C French   Non-Executive Director 3
--------------------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ----------
  absent from January 2002 to June 2002 due to illness
  appointed on 1 July 2002
  appointed on 1 September 2002
The Board, which meets every month, exercises overall control of the Group's affairs by reference to a schedule of matters reserved
for its decision. These matters include: 
  major acquisitions and disposals
  the approval of Financial Statements and assessment of financial performance
  authority levels of expenditure, with detailed appraisal and reviews
  treasury policies and review of financial planning, and
  risk management policies. 
In furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at
the Company's expense. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
Board Committees
Each Board Committee has established clear and defined terms of reference, responsibilities and powers. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr J Hodges and comprises all Non-Executive Directors. The Group's external auditors attend all
meetings of the Audit Committee. 
The Committee meets at least three times a year and its terms of reference cover the points recommended by the Combined Code.
Its duties include monitoring internal control throughout the Group, approving the Group's accounting policies and reviewing the
Interim and Annual Financial Statements before submission to the Board. 
The Audit Committee also reviews the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness and the independence and
objectivity of the external auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr R Heath. The composition and role of the Committee is described in the Report of
the Remuneration Committee on pages 16 to 19. 
Corporate Governance
20 AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr R Heath and comprises the whole Board. The Committee, having regard to the
required blend of skills and experience required to lead and manage the Company, is responsible for selecting and appointing the
Company's Executive and Non-Executive Directors and meets as required. 
Shareholder communications
The Company communicates regularly with its major institutional shareholders and seeks to meet with them at least twice a year. Many
of the Group's employees are shareholders in the Company and they are advised of all material developments through regular employee
newsletters and team briefings. There is also the opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Directors at the AGM. 
Environmental policy
The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its activities on the environment through effective management and control of
those elements of its activities which have a potentially negative effect on the environment.
The Group endeavours to behave responsibly when conducting its activities. Its employees, as representatives of the Group, are
educated to behave in an environmentally safe manner at their work place.
Wherever possible, the Group ensures an efficient consumption of energy and natural resources. It promotes recycling and reusing
of products when appropriate and disposes of pollutants safely to minimise the impact on the environment. The Group strives
continually to assess and improve its environmental practices. 
Corporate social responsibility 
The Group is committed to behaving in a socially responsible manner. By making the most of the Group's resources, we minimise
any negative effects on the environment and community. 
While the Group appreciates the importance of its social responsibilities, it recognises that its principal responsibility is to meet its
primary business obligations, that is to provide an excellent service in an efficient and competitive manner and profitably. 
The Group aims to exceed general industry standards of service and strives continually to improve the quality of service it provides
and to ensure that best practice is transferred across its different business units. The Group accepts the costs of working to a high
standard and believes that this leads to enhanced customer loyalty and satisfaction.
The Group behaves responsibly towards its customers, suppliers and employees, regularly involving employees and customers,
where appropriate, in decisions which affect them. 
The Board recognises that the Group must remain aware of the need for change, to evolve and remain competitive. The Group has
a decisive and proactive management team with the skills and experience to anticipate change, be it technological or economic,
and proactively address opportunities that such change may present. In this way, the Group aims to maintain its position as an
industry leader in its field. 
As always, our employees and their skills are a key resource, through whom we can achieve our commercial and strategic goals. 
To this end, the Group is committed to providing safe and healthy working conditions and ensuring that equal opportunities exist 
in the workplace independent of race, religion, sex and physical ability. 
The Board decides on levels of charitable contributions annually. The Board aims to ensure that the charities supported are relevant
to the Group's businesses. There is, therefore, a degree of common interest and shared values between the aims of AutoLogic and
the aims of the charities it supports.
Internal control
In accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control (the  Turnbull Report'), the Board acknowledges its responsibility to
ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks to the achievement of the Group's strategic objectives. This process has been in place
throughout 2002 and is continuing, and accords with the recommendations of the Turnbull Report. The effectiveness of this process
has been regularly reviewed by the Board. The internal control systems are designed to meet the Group's particular needs and the
risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. 
The processes to identify and manage key risks to the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment. Such
processes, which are reviewed and improved as necessary, include strategic planning, the appointment of senior management, the
regular monitoring of performance, control over capital expenditure and investment and the setting of high standards and targets
for safety, health and environmental performance.
The Group' s strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board and the subsidiary boards consider the strategy for the individual businesses.
Annual budgets and performance targets are set for each business by the Board in accordance with the Group's overall objectives. 
AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002 21 22 AutoLogic Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Corporate Governance
(Continued)
Businesses within the Group are responsible for meeting a defined reporting timetable and for compliance with the Group
accounting policies. The subsidiary boards of the individual businesses and the Board receive a monthly summary of the financial
results of the businesses, based upon a standardised and timely reporting process.
On completion of all major investments, post investment reviews are carried out on behalf of the Board. This process helps improve
the quality of business judgements through the understanding and experience gained. In addition, following completion of
acquisitions, the existing internal control procedures are extended to cover the enlarged Group. These procedures are regularly
reviewed to ensure their continued appropriateness in the light of the increased size and geographical scope of the Group. 
The Board confirms that during the year ended 31 December 2002 it reviewed the need for a separate internal audit function and
concluded that, at that time, such a function was not required. The Board will continue to review the need for such a function on a
regular basis.
The Company exercises its supervisory and voting rights in relation to its joint ventures, including GAL, along with its joint venture
partners, to ensure that appropriate procedures and internal controls are in place in these businesses.
Going concern
The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future
and have therefore adopted the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements.
J Hodges Chairman
Audit Committee 
10 April 2003