 59 T.Clarke plc electrical engineers & contractors 2006
Corporate governance
Introduction
The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and continues to embrace the
principles contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003,
applicable to listed companies in formulating and applying the company's corporate governance
policies. In this report compliances with the above code have been reported and non-compliances
have been explained.
Directors
The board comprises five executive directors, one of whom was appointed in 2007, and three
independent directors, including the chairman. The board has between them the necessary skills
and experience to operate and control the business conducted by the group effectively. The board
meets once a month to consider matters specifically reserved for its attention and decision. The
attendance record of individual directors and their inclusion on the other committees is shown in
the table below. Brief biographies of each director are given on page 38 and 39.
The Audit Committee met twice in 2006. The Remuneration Committee met twice in 2006.
Board meetings Board meetings Audit Remuneration
held in 2006 attended in 2006 committee committee
R.J. Race 12 12 2 2
P.E. Stanborough 12 12
B.V. DeFalco 12 12
L.J.D. Arnold 12 12 1 2
J.M. Daly 12 12
M. Lawrence 12 12
B.A. Stewart 12 11 2 2 60
Management information systems are in place to enable the directors to make informed decisions
to discharge their duties properly.
A Regional Board chaired by the group managing director (UK regions) is responsible for
controlling the subsidiary company operations. It meets formally every quarter. The independent
directors make periodic visits to the subsidiary company locations in order to acquaint themselves
with the businesses and the senior managers. In accordance with the company's articles, the
divisional and technical directors meet with the executive directors in a quarterly meeting to
discuss in detail the performance of the main operating company and to be informed of group
policy and strategy.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who ensures that
the board receives appropriate and timely information for its decision-making, that board
procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are met. 
Board papers are circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow time to consider the
adequacy of the information provided for decision-making.
Mr. L.J.D. Arnold has been nominated senior independent director. Under the Company's Articles
of Association, one-third of the board retires by rotation each year and all directors are required to
offer themselves for re-election at least every three years. Any director appointed since the last
AGM is required to present themselves for election at the subsequent AGM.
Performance evaluation
The effectiveness of the contribution and the level of commitment of each director to fulfiling the
role of a director of the company is the subject of continuing evaluation, having regard to the
regularity with which the board of directors meets, the limited size of the board of directors and
the reporting structures which are in place within the company to monitor performance.
The chief executive primarily, but acting in conjunction with the chairman, undertakes the task
of annual evaluation of performance and commitment of individual members of the board of
directors and the board of directors as a whole and its committees. 
Company secretary
The board has reviewed the duties of the Company Secretary and has decided to make the role
independent from that of Finance Director, at a future date.
Corporate governance 61 T.Clarke plc electrical engineers & contractors 2006
Audit committee
The primary task of this committee is to review the reporting of financial and non-financial
information to the shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management and the
audit process. The committee consists of the three independent directors; each meeting is chaired
by Mr. L.J.D. Arnold and attended by the parent company auditors. The committee meets at least
twice a year and the chief executive and the finance director are invited to attend the meeting
held immediately prior to the release of the group's annual results.
The audit committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the group's
external auditors and reviews the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by them. 
An analysis is shown in note 4 to the annual accounts. During the year, the only significant non-
audit work undertaken by the group auditor comprised tax compliance advice and the audit of the
company pension scheme. The audit committee does not believe that the independence of the
auditors is compromised by the non-audit work shown in the annual accounts as the volume of
that work is low and the type of non-audit work does not conflict with the audit.
In light of the procedures laid out below in the section headed  Internal Control', and after
allowing for the internal checking procedures carried out under the group quality control system,
the committee do not currently consider the need for a separate internal audit function, primarily
because many elements of this role are covered by the quality control audit procedures.
Remuneration committee
The brief for this committee is to determine the service contracts, targets and structure of the
rewards for the group chief executive and the executive directors and to monitor the policies being
applied in remunerating other senior executives. The committee consists of the three independent
directors, including the chairman, and the committee meets formally twice during the year.
The committee and the board as a whole follow the provisions of Section B and Schedule A of
the Code in designing Performance Related Remuneration and disclosing relevant information in
the remuneration report. However, contrary to the Code (reference Schedule A.6) executive
directors' bonuses are pensionable under the rules of the group pension scheme. This is
considered appropriate in the circumstances as usually a substantial proportion of the
remuneration package is related to performance and there is no other long-term incentive scheme.
The Remuneration Report appears on pages 55 to 58. 62
Nominations
The company does not have a Nominations Committee as required by the Code (Reference A.4) 
as it believes the relatively small size of the board does not justify its existence at this time.
However, any board member is entitled to recommend new members for the board, and the board
as a whole considers any such recommendation.
Shareholder relations
The company recognises the importance of dialogue with both institutional and private
shareholders. Presentations are made to brokers, analysts and institutional investors at the time of
the announcement of final and half-year results and there are regular meetings with analysts and
investors throughout the year, which are organised through the company's broker so that the
group strategy can be explained and the investment community can communicate its views to
executive management. It is usual that Messrs. Stanborough, Lawrence and Daly take these
presentations as a team of either two or three and that the feedback reports provided by the
company's broker are forwarded to the independent directors so that they can be kept informed of
the views of shareholders.
The board has always invited communications from its private investors and encouraged
participation by them at the Annual General Meeting. All board members present at the AGM are
available to answer questions from shareholders. Notice of the AGM in excess of 20 working days
is given and the business of the meeting is conducted with separate resolutions, voted on initially
by a show of hands with the result of the proxy voting being indicated. To assist in greater
shareholder involvement in the business of the AGM the company has introduced electronic proxy
voting via the CREST system.
Corporate governance 63 T.Clarke plc electrical engineers & contractors 2006
Internal control
The board is responsible for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material mis-statement or loss.
The board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the group's significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31st December
2006 and, up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly
reviewed by the board and that it accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the
Combined Code (Turnbull guidance).
The internal control procedures are delegated to executive directors, technical directors and
senior management in the group, operating within a clearly defined departmental structure. Each
department or subsidiary assesses the level of authorisation appropriate to its decision-making
process after evaluation of potential benefits and risks. The board monitors monthly progress on
contracts formally.
On a quarterly basis the board reviews management accounts in order to provide effective
monitoring of financial performance. At the same time the board considers other significant
strategic risk management, operational and compliance issues to ensure that the group's assets
are safeguarded and financial information and accounting records can be relied on.
The board's agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and control and receives
reports thereon from the Engineering Executive Meeting, which takes place quarterly and which is
chaired by a member of the board. It receives similar reports from the Regional Board meetings
which also take place quarterly. The emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance
and not merely reporting by exception. At its meeting on 8th March 2007 the board carried out
the annual assessment of the year ended 31st December 2006 by considering documentation from
the audit committee and reviewing the need for an internal audit function. It was considered
unnecessary to establish an internal audit function because the regular site audits under the
quality control procedures provide a similar assurance that internal control systems are being
properly adherred to.
Going concern
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.