 This section of the annual report describes how the Company has applied the Principles set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the London Stock
Exchange in June 1998 (the   Hampel Code'' or the   Code''). The directors consider that
throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Company has been in compliance with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of that Code.
Statement of Appliance of Principles
The Code establishes fourteen Principles of Good Governance which are split into four main areas
and are described in the sections below:
r Directors
r Directors' Remuneration
r Relations with Shareholders
r Accountability and Audit
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which, at 31 December 2003,
comprised four executive and five non-executive directors. Their biographies appear on page 10.
Except for Professor D Banister, who has been a director for more than ten years, all of the non-
executive directors are considered independent by the Board and Mr D Mapp is the Senior
Independent Director.
The Chairman is mainly responsible for the running of the Board ensuring that all directors receive
sufficient, relevant and timely information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to
meetings. The Chief Executive's responsibilities are concerned with co-ordinating the Group's
business and implementing Group strategy.
Major acquisitions and disposals require Board approval. The Board also considers key
appointments and significant employee issues, as well as social, environmental and ethical
matters. All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Company's affairs.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies
proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed. This ensures the directors act in the best long-
term interests of shareholders, whilst taking account of the interests of employees, customers,
suppliers and the communities in which the businesses operate. The non-executive directors also
test fully the operational performance of the whole Group.
All directors have full and timely access to relevant information. Directors are also provided with
the opportunity for training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and
changing commercial risks. All directors are able to seek independent professional advice in the
performance of their duties as directors if necessary.
All directors, in accordance with the Code, will submit themselves for re-election at least once
every three years.
During 2003 eight scheduled Board meetings were held. Matters arising between scheduled Board
meetings which require Board approval are dealt with by committee appointed by the Board.
Corporate Governance
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 15 The frequency of attendance at Board meetings during the year was as follows:
Board Meetings
Number of meetings
attended during 2003
R Kiernan (Chair) 7
D Smith 8
A Foye 8
R Horton 8
J Conibear 6
D Banister 7
D Mapp 6
D Wallace 8
N Berwin 8
During 2003 the Board had three standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration
Committee and the Nominations Committee, each of which operates within defined terms of
reference. The Audit Committee met three times during 2003 and the Remuneration Committee
met four times. The membership of each committee and the frequency of attendance at committee
meetings during the year were as follows:
Audit Committee
Number of meetings
attended during 2003
D Mapp (Chair) 3
R Kiernan 3
N Berwin 3
Remuneration Committee
Number of meetings
attended during 2003
D Wallace (Chair) 4
R Kiernan 4
D Mapp 3
From 1 January 2004 the Audit Committee will be chaired by Mr N Berwin.
During 2003 a Nominations Committee was formally constituted, comprising Mr N Berwin
(Chair), Mr R Kiernan and Mr D Smith, to consider the successor to Mr R Kiernan and, following
a search conducted with the assistance of independent consultants Spencer Stuart, recommended
the appointment of Mr D Cruickshank.
Following the appointment of Mr Cruickshank, the Nominations Committee is now comprised of
Mr D Cruickshank (Chair), Mr N Berwin and Mr D Mapp.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two way communication with both its institutional and private
investors and responds appropriately to all queries received orally or in writing. The Chief
Executive and the Group Finance Director attended more than fifty meetings with analysts and
institutional shareholders and the trade and financial press during the year 2003.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days' notice of the Annual General Meeting at which
all directors are available for questions. The number of proxy votes received for and against each
resolution is disclosed at the Annual General Meeting and a separate resolution is proposed on each
item.
Accountability and Audit
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the
effectiveness of these systems. Such systems can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss as they are designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives.
Corporate Governance continued
16 - Taylor & Francis Group plc The Board confirms that the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the year ended 31
December 2003 and the period up to 2 March 2004 has been reviewed in line with the criteria set
out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code ( The Turnbull Report')
published in September 1999. In carrying out this review the Board takes account of material
developments through reports by the Group Finance Director, the Audit Committee and the Risk
Assessment Committee and this is explained further below.
The Group has operated under an established internal control framework which can be described
under five headings:
Financial reporting
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board. Each operating
unit prepares monthly results with a comparison against budget. The Board reviews these for the
Group as a whole and determines any appropriate action. Toward the end of each financial year the
operating units prepare detailed budgets for the following year which are consolidated and
presented to the Board for review before being formally adopted. Forecasts are updated at least
three times during the year.
Quality and integrity of personnel
One of the key requirements of an effective system of internal control is the integrity of personnel.
The Group has policies on personnel selection which utilise procedures (including the follow up of
references) to ensure that staff of suitable calibre and integrity are employed.
Operating unit financial controls
The executive directors have defined the financial controls and procedures with which each
operating unit is required to comply. Compliance with these procedures is regularly reviewed by
senior management.
Computer systems
Much of the Group's financial and management information is processed by and stored on
computer systems. Accordingly, the Group has established controls and procedures over the
security of data held on computer systems. Also, the Group has put in place arrangements for
computer processing to continue and data to be retained in the event of the complete failure of the
Group's own data processing facilities.
Risk Management
The Board has a formalised internal risk assessment procedure in relation to Code Provision D2.1.
As part of the process the Board identified and agreed key  high level' risks which affect the Group,
the acceptable level of such risks and the controls and reporting procedures. These risks are
summarized on a Risk Analysis Document and this has been communicated in an appropriate form
to each of the Group's business units. The Group operates an ongoing process to identify and
evaluate significant risks affecting the business. Managers throughout the Group are encouraged to
notify an executive Board member if they become aware of any major factors that may adversely
affect the business either from a control view point or from factors in the wider business
environment. Any such matters are then immediately referred to the Group Finance Director who
notes these into the Risk Register which is maintained at head office.
Managers are also formally required, twice each year, to re-evaluate and report on the business
environment and any risks that may be present. All urgent issues are dealt with either immediately
or referred to a standing Risk Assessment Committee consisting of the Chief Executive (Chair) and
the three other Group executive directors. In any event the Risk Assessment Committee meets
twice a year to review progress on issues identified in the Risk Register and to consider the major
risk categories identified in relation to the business and the Risk Register. In the review process the
Risk Assessment Committee considers contributing factors and recommends appropriate early
warning systems and actions.
Corporate Governance continued
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 17 Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee, comprising of three independent non-executive directors, has specific
terms of reference which deal with its authority and duties and comply with the Code. It meets at
least twice a year with the external auditors attending. The Committee's duties include the review
of the Group's accounting policies, financial reporting procedures, audit fees (including
remuneration received by auditors for non-audit work) and the Group's internal controls,
including a review of the Risk Register and the Risk Analysis Document. Part of each meeting of
the Audit Committee is held between the non-executive directors and the external auditors in
private.
Internal Audit
The Board, through the Audit Committee, introduced a Group internal audit function during
2003. The function operates under a Charter of Group Internal Audit, including adherence to the
Code of Ethics, Standards and Guidelines of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Going Concern Basis
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume the Group will continue in business. After making enquiries,
the directors have formed a judgment, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there
is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements. This statement also forms part of the Operating
and Financial Review.
Corporate Governance continued
18 - Taylor & Francis Group plc