 www.tns-global.com 59
Corporate governance
The board is committed to good corporate governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by 
the Financial Services Authority (the  Combined Code'). During 2002, the group complied with all of the provisions set out in 
section 1 of the Combined Code, except to the extent that the notice period in the service contract of Mike Kirkham, the Chief
Executive, is two years, as explained in the remuneration report. 
Composition of the board
The board comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, as well as four non-executive directors. The non-executive
directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important independent perspective to board decision making. 
In addition to the board members, the company has five associate directors who are invited to attend board meetings. They do not
have a right to vote at such meetings, however, it does allow them the opportunity to participate in key discussions whilst providing
all board members with access to the senior managers responsible for the operation of the business. 
Tony Cowling chairs the board and Mike Kirkham is Chief Executive. The board has agreed their respective roles and responsibilities,
to ensure they are clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place. Rob Rowley has acted as senior
independent director since 1 January 2003, following the retirement of Nick Hodges on 31 December 2002.
Biographical information on each of the directors is given on page 54.
Function of the board
The board is accountable to shareholders for the group's business operations and affairs. It participates in the establishment of 
the group's strategy and then oversees its implementation; the presence of the associate directors at board meetings assists in this
process. The board is also responsible for monitoring the group's financial and operational performance, ensuring that appropriate
risk management is in place and is being adhered to. In addition, the board ensures that appropriate corporate governance
procedures are established in order to protect the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. 
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for consideration by the board that includes approval of financial statements,
transfer of company assets, major acquisitions and disposals, expenditure authority levels and treasury and risk management
procedures. The full board met nine times during 2002. 
Retirement by rotation
In accordance with the company's articles of association, executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves for re-election
every three years and non-executive directors every two years. 
Information and advice
Board members are regularly briefed on matters affecting the group's activities, such as significant industry developments, as well 
as changes to the legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates. Board reporting is designed to ensure that all
information relevant to board decisions is submitted by the executive to board members in a timely manner prior to each board
meeting. There is an agreed procedure whereby all members of the board may obtain independent professional advice in the
furtherance of their duties. Such advice was not sought by any director during 2002. All directors also have access to the services 
of the Company Secretary. 
Board committees
The board has established three committees to assist in fulfilling its duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and a
remuneration committee. Terms of reference have been adopted in respect of each committee. 
The audit committee consists of non-executive directors only, as shown on page 54, and is chaired by Dr Neil Cross. Its
responsibilities include monitoring internal control, approving the group's accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual
financial statements before their submission to the board and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit and the nature and
extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors. The external auditor attends all audit committee meetings and has direct
access to the committee chairman. The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent
powers of investigation and access to information. The audit committee met twice during 2002. 
The nomination committee comprises all non-executive directors, the group Chairman and the Chief Executive and is chaired by 
Dr Stephan Buck. The role of the nomination committee is to devise criteria for board membership and review candidates for
directorships, both executive and non-executive. The nomination committee met three times during 2002.  60 TNS annual report 2002
Corporate governance
continued 
The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles of
the Combined Code in establishing director remuneration, are included in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 66. The
remuneration committee met seven times during 2002. 
Internal controls
The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an appropriate system of internal controls. Within the group's regional/sector
structure, day to day management of those controls is delegated to senior management of the relevant operating units. Each year all
operations perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in place in their business through an internal control
questionnaire and report their findings to the group. In March 2002, a formal business review function and process were approved by
the audit committee and board. Under the review, a number of group businesses are subject to a detailed review, on the basis of a
risk assessment, including financial, operational and compliance controls. Recommendations for change are agreed with local
management and the findings are reported to the executive committee and ultimately to the audit committee and the board. During
2002, five such reviews were performed. By these mechanisms the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the group's
system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2002. The group's system of internal controls is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The executive committee, the composition of which is shown on page 55, is responsible to the board for the overall implementation
of the strategy in the day to day running of the business. It has set out a procedure for risk management that is reviewed regularly
and on which it reports to the board. The executive committee has reviewed the key business, financial, operational and compliance
risks facing the group, prioritised their significance and assessed the current procedures and processes in place to detect and
address them. Initiatives have been put in place to address the key risks, which supports the group in achieving its strategy.
The board is of the view that there are appropriate on-going procedures for identifying and evaluating significant risks faced by the
group. These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered by this report and up to the date the annual report and
accounts were approved. The procedures comply with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code. 
Financial controls and reporting
The group operates a comprehensive system for financial reporting to the board, based on an annual budget and regular forecasts.
Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and the operational management team identifies any new business
matters, key risks facing the operating units and recent acquisitions in its reports to the board. The board approves the budget in line
with the group's corporate strategy.
Pension funds
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the group's employees are held separately from those of the group. 
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee
representatives and group board members, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995. In the Netherlands, these
are held by Stichting NIPO Pension funds. In the US, the group operates a number of section 401K plans with independent providers,
as well as the CMR LLC Union Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by Northwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. 
Details of pension commitments are given on pages 44 to 46.
Shareholder communication
The group has in place a structured programme of communications with shareholders. Executive directors meet regularly with
existing and prospective institutional investors in the UK, Europe and the US, to provide background information regarding the group
and to improve their understanding of the company's business and strategy. In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the UK Listing Authority, price-sensitive information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time. 
Group results are announced twice yearly and the presentations made to analysts are webcast on the group's website, 
www.tns-global.com, on the day of the announcement. 
The senior independent director meets with the company's brokers twice a year to keep abreast of institutional shareholders'
attitudes to the company. The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to meet with and question the
directors.
During 2002, 14 announcements were made to the Stock Exchange informing the market of acquisitions, financial results and board
changes. These announcements together with current and back issues of the annual and interim reports and webcasts of the www.tns-global.com 61
company's financial results presentations, are available on the group's website. Shareholders can register on the website to receive
copies of press releases and financial results by email.
Annual general meeting
At least 20 working days' notice is given to shareholders of the annual general meeting. All results of proxy votes are read out and
made available for review during the meeting. The Chairman, executive directors and chairmen of the audit, nomination and
remuneration committees all attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
New developments
The board is currently considering the Derek Higgs review of the role of the non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smith's report on
proposed guidance for audit committees, both published in January 2003, and will report to shareholders on the impact these reports
have on the company for its financial year commencing 1 January 2004. 