 17 TDG Annual report and accounts
The Board is committed to ensuring that proper standards
of corporate governance operate throughout the Company
and supports the adoption of the Combined Code (the
 Code'). The Board has given full consideration to the
Principles of Good Governance set out in the Code and
describes in this report the manner of its compliance with
such Principles. The Company has complied with the Code
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the
accounting period, apart from the matters set out below.
Items 1 and 2 have been endorsed by the Board on the
policy recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
1 It is considered more appropriate for the remuneration
of Executive Directors to be linked to corporate
performance only, rather than to a combination of
corporate and individual performance as required by
Principle B.1 of the Code.
2 Given the existence of the Long Term Share Incentive
Plan, it is not appropriate for the annual bonus for
Executive Directors to be part paid in shares as
proposed by paragraph 1 of Schedule A of the Code.
The Board
The Company is headed by its Board of Directors which
meets regularly throughout the year to monitor the
performance of the Company and to oversee its
development. A formal schedule of matters reserved for the
decision of the Board is in place covering key areas,
including approval of strategic plans and budgets, annual
and interim financial statements, and major acquisitions and
disposals. Other matters reviewed by the Board include
monthly financial performance, business development
opportunities, main operational activities and management
development. Internal control, including matters of risk, is
maintained by the Board through its Board meetings, the
Audit Committee, the Health, Safety and Environment
Committee, performance reviews by Executive Directors
with divisional and functional heads and periodic reviews.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate,
with the division of responsibilities clearly defined. The
proportion of Non-Executives (including the independent
Chairman), being more than half the Board, complies with
the Code. The independent Directors are considered by
the Board to be free from any relationship which could
materially affect their exercise of independent judgement.
The Directors are aware of their responsibilities to bring
independent judgement on all issues and when appropriate,
are entitled to obtain independent professional advice at
the Company's expense. In addition, the Company
Secretary is fully accessible to all members of the Board
and maintains regular contact with them. On appointment,
Directors participate in an induction programme that
includes meetings with other Directors, briefings from
executive management, site visits, and provision of
information regarding the Group's strategy, values, financial
performance, corporate governance and corporate policies
such as on health, safety and the environment.
Board papers are prepared on matters to be considered
by the Board and are circulated with an agenda in advance
of each Board meeting.
The Directors have a programme of meeting institutional
shareholders directly after the release of the annual and
interim results. The Directors are also available at other
times, outside close periods, to enter into dialogue with
these shareholders. The Annual General Meeting provides
a forum for communicating with private investors as well
as institutional shareholders. The Board presents its
assessment of the Company's position and prospects in
its annual and interim reports and endeavours to do this
in a balanced way.
Board Committees
The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written
terms of reference and is chaired by Keith Hamill.
Membership is reserved to the Chairman and the Non-
Executive Directors, with the Chief Executive and Finance
Director attending when invited. The Company's auditors
also attend when appropriate and meet the Committee
alone, as a matter of routine, once a year. The Committee's
Corporate
governance Corporate governance continued
18 TDG Annual report and accounts
terms of reference include the appointment of auditors,
agreement of the general scope of the external and internal
audits, review of the adequacy of the Company's internal
financial controls and review of its annual and interim report
and accounts. The Audit Committee has adopted a policy
on auditor independence. The policy requires reviews of the
effectiveness of auditors and limits the use of auditors for
non-audit work. Employment of staff previously engaged by
the Company's auditors requires the prior approval of the
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of
the Company and membership consists of the Chairman
and the Non-Executive Directors, and is supported by
external search consultants. The Committee makes
recommendations to the full Board on the appointment of
Directors. Executive Directors do not have service contracts
with notice periods in excess of one year and Non-Executive
Directors are appointed for specific terms of three years. All
Directors submit themselves for re-election in accordance
with the rotation provisions in the Articles of Association,
which state that Directors must be re-elected every three
years and one third of Directors have to retire by rotation
each year. Any Director appointed by the Board is also
required to offer himself for re-election by the shareholders
at the Annual General Meeting following such appointment.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Howard Phillips
and membership is restricted to the Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors only, with the Chief Executive and Group
Director of Human Resources attending when invited. The
Committee's terms of reference, as approved by the full
Board, include approval of senior management and the
organisation structure, arrangements for succession planning
and management development and the remuneration of
Executive Directors, based on remuneration policies
approved by the full Board. The Committee has access to
advice from independent consultants. The Company's
remuneration policy is set out on pages 20 to 25.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee is chaired
by Angus Crichton-Miller. Information on the Committee
is contained within the Health, safety and environment
report on page 13.
Day to day operational control is in the hands of the
Executive Directors who meet regularly throughout the
year with key functional and divisional heads.
Going concern
The Board has reasonable expectations, after having made
appropriate enquiries, that the Group and the Company
have adequate resources to continue in operation for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, the Board continues to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Internal controls
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can
only provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the Company was in full
compliance with the Turnbull Guidance during the year.
The Board has charged the Chief Executive with
responsibility for the recommendation and implementation
of policies on risk and control. The Board has reviewed the
effectiveness of the internal control procedures of the
Group for the year ended 31 December 2002, including a
review of financial, operational and compliance controls
and risk management. 19 TDG Annual report and accounts
Key elements of the internal control process within the
Group include:
Group risk framework
At the start of 2002 the Board had identified and assessed
the significant risks to the achievement of the Group's
business objectives and the process for their management.
These were incorporated into a Group Risk Framework. In
addition, this had also been completed at a divisional and
functional level.
The Group framework was formally reviewed by the Board
as at the half-year and the full year. This included the
identification of emergent new risks, and the removal of
risks that were no longer significant to the achievement of
the Group's business objectives.
The responsibility for the maintenance and control of the
Group Risk Framework rests with the Chief Executive.
Monitoring and reporting of risk
During 2002, the main conduit for the reporting and
escalation of risk issues was direct to Executive Directors
from regular performance reviews with Divisional Directors
and Heads of key functions.
The Executive Directors are the first point of contact for any
urgent risk issue.
Budgeting and financial reporting
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting,
forecasting and financial reporting system. Annual budgets
and quarterly forecasts are reviewed and approved at
divisional and Group level. Monthly performance is reported
against budget, forecast and prior year.
Internal audit
The Board and the Audit Committee have responsibility for
ensuring that the Group Internal Audit function provides a
level and quality of assurance that is consistent with its
terms of reference. On an annual basis, the Audit
Committee reviews the scope of work, authority and
resources of Group Internal Audit.