 20 http://www.telecity.com
Corporate governance statement
The Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and to integrity and high
ethical standards in all its business dealings. The Board considers that it has complied throughout the financial period with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code (the  Code'), except in five instances. First, as shown in the Remuneration
report, the Company has granted share options in single large amounts to a small number of senior executives. The Board
believes that it is necessary, in order to recruit and retain high quality candidates in a highly competitive environment, to grant a
substantial number of options on initial appointment. Second, from 10 May 2001 until 19 June 2002, the Company combined the
posts of Chairman and Chief Executive in one person. The Board believes that this position was fully justified in terms of the size
of the Board and of the Company. The decision to combine these posts was discussed fully with the Company's major
shareholders who gave their support to the Board's intentions. The Board has a strong and independent non-executive element
with a recognised senior member. Third, Michael Hepher, a non-independent non-executive Director is a member of the
Remuneration Committee. The Board believes that it is sufficient that the majority of the members of the Remuneration Committee
are independent non-executive Directors. Fourth, from 10 May 2001 until 19 June 2002, the Company's Audit Committee
comprised two non-executive Directors rather than three as required by the Code. The Board feels that, given the size of the
Board, the independent functioning of the Audit Committee was not jeopardised by having two rather than three members. Fifth,
the system of internal control is not currently as robust as required by the Code. Further details can be found under  Internal
control' below.
The Board of Directors
The Board has established guidelines requiring specified matters to be subject to discussion by the full Board, including overall
strategy, financial strategy and planning, material acquisitions, disposals, property related commitments, investments and capital
projects.
At the end of the year the Board comprised three executive Directors and four non-executive Directors, three of whom are
considered to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code. In the view of the whole Board, the non-executive Directors
represent a significant factor in the Board's decision making. The Board has nominated Eric Barton as the senior independent non-
executive Director, to whom issues can be conveyed.
The Board has twelve scheduled meetings per year and meets otherwise as required. Directors receive timely and adequate
information regarding the Group as necessary and in preparation for Board meetings. All Directors have access to the Company
Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are adhered to. A procedure exists under which all Directors may
take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
All Directors are aware of and have access to appropriate training in respect of their duties as Directors.
All Directors are required by the Articles of Association to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years. 
Committees of the Board
The following Committees have been established to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities.
Audit Committee
In monitoring the effectiveness of the Board, this Committee is responsible for ensuring that systems which are designed to identify
the nature and extent of risks facing the business from both internal and external sources and the appropriate evaluation of such
risks are in place and are reviewed periodically to ensure their continuing effectiveness. The Committee is also responsible for
ensuring that appropriate steps are taken by the Board to reduce and/or eliminate such risks.
In addition, the Committee has other responsibilities including agreeing with the Company's auditors the nature and scope of the
audit and reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control and reporting on this to the Board of Directors.
The Committee comprises Eric Barton (Chairman) and Alain Legendre who are both independent non-executive Directors of the
Company and Michael Hepher, the non-executive Chairman. For the purposes of the Audit Committee held on 14 February 2002
only, the Board appointed Anish Kapoor as a member of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee
This Committee reviews and determines the Group's policy on remuneration of senior executives and controls the operation of the
Company's share option schemes including the grant of new options. The Committee considers and approves specific
remuneration packages for each of the executive Directors.
The Committee comprises Michael Hepher (Chairman), Eric Barton and Josef Ellmauer who are, with the exception of Michael
Hepher, independent non-executive Directors of the Company. The Committee has given full consideration to the principles and
policies of the Code relating to remuneration matters and to Schedule A of the Code.
Fees payable to the non-executive Directors are set by the executive Directors.
Details of Directors' remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 22 to 25. http://www.telecity.com 21
Nominations Committee
This Committee initiates the selection process, identifying suitable candidates for appointment as Directors and making
recommendations to the Board regarding such appointments. 
The Committee comprises Michael Hepher (Chairman), Eric Barton, Alain Legendre and Josef Ellmauer who are, with the
exception of Michael Hepher, all independent non-executive Directors of the Company.
Relations with shareholders
The Company actively promotes and maintains relationships with its shareholders, holding regular meetings with major
shareholders including presentations following the Company's interim and preliminary announcements.
The Company intends to use the Annual General Meeting to present and explain the Group's business and strategy and the
Chairmen of the various Board Committees will be present and available to answer questions from shareholders.
It is intended that the Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, which are set out in full in the Notice of Meeting
on pages 44 and 45, will be presented as separate Resolutions and will include Resolutions relating to the Report and Accounts
and the Remuneration report. It is also intended that details of proxy votes on all Resolutions will be announced at the Annual
General Meeting.
Internal control
The Code requires that the Board maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and the
Company's assets and should report on its review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls, which should be
conducted at least annually. The review should cover all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management. Formal guidance has been issued by the Turnbull Committee in order to assist Directors in complying with these
internal control requirements (the  Turnbull Guidance').
Certain of the Directors have carried out a review of the Turnbull Guidance and, for the first six months of the year to 31 December
2002, a risk control framework, which covered both UK and non-UK operations, was in place to ensure compliance with the internal
control requirements of the Code.
During the year the structure of the Company changed to one of country-based management rather than being 
centrally-driven. The effect of this was not a change in the risks themselves, but a fundamental change in responsibility for
managing them. In the view of the Directors an attempt to install the required risk control framework document in a transitional
period would have been unsuccessful as well as a significant distraction to the country management teams. As these teams are
now well-established, work can begin to re-establish the risk control framework document and to re-allocate responsibilities for
ensuring that the risk control processes and reporting are satisfactory.
The Board believes that, given the changes to which the Company has been subject during the year, it has followed appropriate
internal control procedures to manage risk. The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of internal
financial control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Further details on financial control are set out in the Financial review on pages 14 to 16.
The Group does not at present have an internal audit function as the Directors do not consider that the scale of the Company's
operations warrants the establishment of a separate department. The Audit Committee and the Board will continue to monitor the
need for an internal audit function.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors, at the time of approving the accounts, have determined that there is reasonable expectation
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the
Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.