 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 21
BUSINESS
The Board has complied with the revised Combined Code produced by the Committee on Corporate Governance
(except where detailed below) and has applied the principles of good governance in the following ways:
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board meets regularly to review the progress of the Company and to discuss the measures required for its future
development. Directors are provided in advance with a formal schedule of matters to be discussed at each meeting,
and with the information needed to monitor the progress of the Company. Records of meetings and the decisions of
the Board are maintained by the Company Secretary and are approved by the Board at the following meeting. All
directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and if required are able to take
independent advice at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their duties. Any question of the removal of the
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. The members of the Board are all experienced and well
qualified and further training has not been judged necessary to date. An internal evaluation of the performance of the
Board as a whole, of its Committees and of the individual directors was conducted during the course of the year in
accordance with section A.6 of the Combined Code, which concluded that all were operating effectively. This
included an appraisal of the Chairman, although no separate meeting took place to appraise his performance. The
Chairman informally discusses issues with other non-executive directors periodically as required. 
TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2008
Name of Director Board Remuneration Audit Nomination
Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 12 4 3 1
Peter Nutting 12 3 3 -
Charles Wigoder 12 -- 1
Richard Hateley 12 - - -
Melvin Lawson 12 - - -
Richard Michell 7 - - -
Michael Pavia 12 4 3 1
Keith Stella 12 4 3 1
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the Chairman responsible for running the
Board, and the Chief Executive responsible for running the Group's business.
BOARD BALANCE
The Board is composed of two executive directors and five non-executive directors. The non-executive directors have
wide experience and a variety of skills. Keith Stella and Michael Pavia are independent non-executive directors, whilst
all other non-executive directors remain independent of management and are free from any business or other
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Keith Stella has agreed
to act as the senior independent non-executive director. 
As noted above, the performance of the Chairman was appraised as part of the evaluation of the performance of the
individual directors, without a formal meeting of the non-executive directors taking place during the year as required by
section A.1.3 of the Combined Code.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 22
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION
Information is supplied to the Board in a timely manner with board papers and accounts being provided in advance
of meetings. When the Board requests additional information it is provided.
RE-ELECTION
One third of all directors are required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and all newly appointed
directors are required to offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose responsibility it is to ensure that the remuneration of directors is
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate people of the quality required. The Remuneration Committee was comprised of
three non-executive directors, namely Keith Stella (Chairman of the Committee), Peter Nutting and Michael Pavia. The
revised Combined Code (provision B.2.1) states that the Committee should only comprise independent non-executive
directors and does not define Mr Nutting as independent, however the Board considers that Mr. Nutting makes a
valuable contribution to the Remuneration Committee due to his considerable business experience. The Directors'
Remuneration Report, giving the names of the members of the Committee and details of the emoluments of each
director, may be found on pages 24 to 27.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS
The Audit Committee is composed of three non-executive directors, Michael Pavia (Chairman of the Committee), 
Peter Nutting and Keith Stella. The revised Combined Code (provision C.3.1) states that the Committee should only
comprise independent non-executive directors and does not define Mr Nutting as independent. However, the Board
considers that Mr Nutting's financial knowledge and considerable business experience are important to the Audit
Committee. The Committee has written terms of reference which describe the authority and duties which have been
delegated to it by the Board. Among these duties are the review of risk assessment, internal controls, financial
reporting and the results of the audit, the appointment of external auditors and the direction of the auditors to
investigate any matters of concern. 
In its meetings the Committee receives a report on the risk assessment, the systems of internal control and their
effectiveness, and uses the meeting with the auditors as a further means of evaluating these measures.
The auditors have provided certain tax and other services to the Group during the year. The Audit Committee has
reviewed the services provided and considers that auditor objectivity and independence are not compromised. The
Audit Committee considers that the auditors are best placed to provide these services.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Pavia (Chairman of the Committee), Keith Stella and Charles Wigoder.
The Committee has written terms of reference which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it
by the Board. The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the
appointment of new executive and non-executive directors, including making recommendations as to the composition
of the Board generally and the balance between executive and non-executive directors appointed to the Board. The
Committee has not utilised external search consultants or open advertisements to identify suitable prospective non-
executive directors as there have not been any vacancies for non-executive directors during the year. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
CONTINUED TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 23
BUSINESS
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
It is the policy of the Group to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and to keep them informed about the
objectives of the business. The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chief Executive to discuss issues with
major shareholders. The Chief Executive feeds back comments from major shareholders to the other directors, in order
to ensure that Board members, and in particular non-executive directors, develop a balanced understanding of the
views of major investors. Both the Chairman and the Chief Executive have periodic discussions with the Company's
Brokers and feed back issues to the Board as appropriate.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days
before the meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed for each issue including the adoption of the Report and
Accounts, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the appointment of auditors. Proxy votes are counted and the
meeting is advised of the number of proxies lodged for and against each resolution. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination committees and the remaining non-executive directors are available to answer
questions. Shareholders who attend are invited to ask questions and take part in the meeting.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Board believes that the report and accounts contained in this document represent a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Group's position and prospects. The directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the
accounts and the auditors have made a statement in this regard.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board of directors has continued to review the internal controls of the Group and the principal risks which the
Group faces. Measures have been taken to reduce certain risks and improve control over the assets of the Group. The
Group is fully compliant with the guidance given by the Turnbull Committee. The Board acknowledges that it is
responsible for the Group's system of internal control and risk management, and has completed the procedures for
review and evaluation of internal controls and risk management. It is, however, recognised that no system can
eliminate risk entirely. The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the need for an internal audit function and have
concluded that the size and nature of the Group do not justify such a function at present.
GOING CONCERN
The directors believe, after making inquiries they consider to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to
continue for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
POLICY STATEMENT
The Group has been in compliance with the revised Combined Code throughout the year, save as referred to above.
Careful consideration has been given by the Board to the departures from the revised Combined Code. In all
instances, the Board has considered the commercial implications and concluded that the instances of non-compliance
were not in any way to the detriment of the Company or its shareholders.