 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 44
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
INTRODUCTION
The Audit Committee (the Committee ) comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael 
Pavia (Chairman of the Committee), Julian Schild and Melvin Lawson in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code ) (provision C.3.1). Michael Pavia is also identified as having recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Attendance at Committee meetings during the current year by Committee members is set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 37 of this document. In accordance with best practice, the 
Committee has the opportunity, as required, to meet with the external auditor of the Company without the 
presence of any executive directors and has done so during the current year. 
The key responsibilities of the Committee include:
   reviewing the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and the direction of the 
external auditor to investigate any matters of particular concern;
   assessing the effectiveness of the Company's external auditor, including considering the scope and results 
of the annual audit; 
   reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and assessing any potential impact on 
objectivity resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor;
   monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements 
relating to the Company's performance; and
   reviewing the Company's internal financial controls and other internal control and risk management 
processes.
The senior management team and executive directors periodically review the effectiveness of key internal 
control and risk management processes within the Company and report any changes in such activities to 
the Audit Committee and the external auditor for consideration. The review covers all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls. 
THE COMMITTEE'S ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Company's half year and annual financial 
statements. The Committee advised the Board that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole provided 
a fair, balanced and understandable picture of the Company's performance, business model and strategy. Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 45
The Committee's review of the financial statements included a detailed evaluation of the significant 
accounting issues therein. The actions taken by the Committee in regard to these are described in the 
table below. 
ISSUE ACTION TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE
Operational accuracy of billing system Review of external auditor procedures which included 
Computer Assisted Audit Techniques (CAATs ).
Monitoring of regulator communications (Ofgem, BABT) 
and monthly monitoring of detailed call centre statistics 
which would indicate significant billing issues.
Valuation and recoverability of trade receivables Review of key assumptions underlying the recoverability 
of trade receivables based on historical experience.
Revenue recognition and recoverability of unbilled  
energy revenues
Review of key assumptions underlying the recoverability 
of unbilled energy revenues based on industry reports 
and historical experience.
Accounting treatment for new energy supply  
arrangements
Review of key aspects of new energy supply 
arrangements to determine the most appropriate 
accounting treatment including whether the acquired 
entities fall within the scope of IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations.
Risk of management override of internal controls Review of significant accounting estimates and 
judgements in relation mainly to receivables balances.
Also, in conjunction with the Company's external auditor, the Audit Committee has considered, amongst 
other matters, compliance with the provisions of the Code and accounting developments, the Company's 
financial control environment and its risk management and control processes. As part of this process the 
Audit Committee has also considered the need for any special projects or internal investigations and 
concluded that no such projects or investigations have been required. 
In accordance with the Code (provision C.3.5), the Audit Committee has also considered the need for 
an internal audit function at the Company and has concluded that, in the light of its review of the internal 
controls in place and the report of the external auditor, no such function is currently required.  
EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS
The external auditor presents a detailed audit report to the Audit Committee following a review of the 
annual financial statements. Having regard to its review of the work performed by the external auditor 
during the year and its approach to key audit issues, the Audit Committee remained satisfied with the 
effectiveness of the external auditor.  Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 46
In reaching this conclusion, the Committee reviewed:
   the experience and expertise of the audit team;
   the scope and eventual fulfilment of the detailed audit strategy;
   the robustness and perceptiveness of the audit team in their handling of key accounting and audit 
judgements; and
   the nature and quality of the content of the external auditor's report.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders at the AGM, the 
reappointment of BDO LLP (BDO ) as the Company's external auditor for the coming year. 
The Committee's position in relation to BDO's tenure and the audit tendering requirements of the Code are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE 
In order to guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditor being compromised, the 
provision of any significant additional services aside from audit and tax compliance remains subject to the 
prior approval of the Audit Committee. The Committee would normally be likely to prohibit the provision of 
the following types of non-audit related work by the Company's external auditor:
   book-keeping and work relating to the preparation of accounting records and financial statements that 
will ultimately be subject to external audit;
   financial information system design and implementation; 
   appraisal or valuation services in respect of material assets;
   internal auditing;
   investment advice or corporate broking; and
   any other work where mutual interests exist that could compromise the independence of the  
external auditor.
During the year the Audit Committee pre-approved the provision of reporting accountant services to the 
Company by the external auditor relating to the new energy supply arrangements with Npower which 
included the acquisition of Electricity Plus Supply Limited and Gas Plus Supply Limited from Npower 
Limited (the Engagement ). The Committee reviewed the services to be provided under the terms of 
the Engagement and concluded that in the light of the nature of the work proposed, and the level of the 
associated fees (as set out in note 2 of the financial statements on page 90 of this document), the external 
auditor's objectivity and independence would not be compromised. 
Furthermore the Committee concluded that the external auditor was best placed to provide the services 
given the tight timetable for the Engagement and the external auditor's inherent understanding of the 
Company's existing energy supply arrangements with Npower which were integral to the transaction. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
CONTINUED Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 47
The Committee's conclusion in relation to the external auditor's objectivity and independence was based on 
the following key points against the background of the APB's Ethical Standards: (i) the external auditor would 
not be undertaking any decisions on behalf of management, providing investment advice or acting as an 
advocate for the Company as a result of the Engagement; (ii) the fee for the Engagement was not contingent, 
was priced on a consistent basis to other similar projects and was not material to either the external auditor 
or the Company; (iii) the subject matter relating to the Engagement would not be incorporated into the 
Company's financial statements and therefore no self-review threat existed; (iv) the Engagement was to be 
completed well before the commencement of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2014 and therefore 
could not conceivably unduly influence the conduct of the audit; and (v) the Engagement would not pose a 
threat to independence through increased familiarity of audit personnel with the Company as the main aspects 
of the Engagement were to be carried out by a completely separate department within the external auditor's 
organisation.
REPORTING OF STAFF CONCERNS
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Michael Pavia, is the primary point of contact for staff of the 
Company to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or 
otherwise. All employees have been notified of this arrangement on the Company's intranet website 
which sets out Michael Pavia's contact details (Code provision C.3.4). No such matters were raised by 
employees during the current year.
Michael Pavia
Chairman of the Audit Committee
On behalf of the Board
20 May 2014
 