 Telephonetics Plc | Report and Financial Statements 2009 www.telephonetics.co.uk
17753 17/03/2010 Proof 6
12 12
The Company is quoted on AIM (operated and 
regulated by the London Stock Exchange plc) 
and it is therefore not required to comply with 
the provisions and principles of good 
corporate governance and code of best 
practise (the  Combined Code'). Nevertheless, 
it is, where deemed appropriate, the intention 
of the Board to continue to comply with the 
Combined Code in so far as it is practicable 
for a group of its size.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Non-
Executive Chairman, Non-Executive Director, 
Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, and 
Managing Director. The key features of the 
corporate governance structure are:
 l The Non-Executive Chairman is closely 
involved with the development of the 
corporate strategy and financing of the 
Group. He is also the Chairman of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees.
 l The Non-Executive Director provides a 
range of skills and experience in the Group. 
He brings independent judgement to 
issues of strategy, performance, risk and 
people through his membership of the 
Board and Audit and Remuneration 
Committees.
 l The Chief Executive Officer exercises 
his delegated powers through the 
management team comprising himself, 
the Managing Director and the Finance 
Director and senior members of 
management.
All directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary, who 
ensures that the Board meets formally at least 
eight times per year, receives appropriate and 
timely information for decision making, that 
Board procedures are followed and that 
statutory and regulatory requirements are met. 
Any director, in order to fulfil their duties, may 
take independent professional advice at the 
Company's expense.
Under the retirement by rotation provisions of 
the Articles, at least one third (or, if their 
number is not a multiple of three, the nearest 
number to (but not greater than) one third) of 
the directors of the Company at the time of 
the Annual General Meeting will be required to 
retire and seek re-election by shareholders at 
that meeting.
The Company does not have a Nomination 
Committee, and so does not comply with the 
Combined Code in this respect. The Board as 
a whole is responsible for its structure, size, 
composition and successional needs.
The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-
Executive Director would not be classified as 
independent under the Combined Code as: 
(i) the Non-Executive Chairman participates in 
the Company's share option scheme; and 
(ii) the Non-Executive Director is a significant 
shareholder.
The Audit Committee
The Company has an established Audit 
Committee, comprising the non-executive 
directors. The Audit Committee is chaired by 
M. P . Neville and has met three times this year. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
ensuring that appropriate financial reporting 
procedures are properly maintained and 
reported on and for meeting with and 
recommending the appointment and 
resignation of the Company's auditors and 
reviewing their reports on the accounts and 
the Company's internal controls.
The Remuneration Committee
The Company has an established 
Remuneration Committee, comprising the 
non-executive directors. The Remuneration 
Committee is chaired by M. P . Neville. The 
Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the performance of the executive 
directors, for recommending the setting of 
their remuneration, for the determination of the 
payment of bonuses, and for considering the 
grant of options to executive directors under 
any share option scheme (including the price 
per share and the application of performance 
standards which may apply to any such grant).
Accountability and audit
The Board seeks to ensure that its annual 
report and financial statements provide a 
balanced and concise assessment of the 
Company's position. All board members have 
access to the external auditor and Audit 
Committee meeting minutes.
Risk assessment and internal control
The directors are responsible for risk 
assessment and the systems of internal 
control. Although no system of internal control 
can provide absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss, the Group's 
systems are designed to provide the directors 
with reasonable assurance that problems are 
identified on a timely basis and dealt with 
appropriately. The key elements of the Group's 
system of internal control are as follows:
Company management: The Chief Executive 
has put in place a clearly defined 
organisational structure, with well understood 
lines of responsibility, delegation of authority, 
accountability, policies and procedures and 
supported by training, budgeting, and 
reporting and review procedures. He chairs 
senior management team meetings with 
responsibilities for sales, marketing, customer 
service, technology and finance.
Financial management: Detailed annual 
budgets are prepared for the Group. These 
budgets are reviewed and agreed by the 
board and actual performance is reported 
against these budgets on a regular basis. The 
Company has in place documented authority 
levels for approving purchase orders, invoices 
and all bank transactions. Further information 
concerning financial risk management is 
detailed in the Business Review.
Quality management: The Group is focused 
on meeting the highest levels of customer 
satisfaction. Quality procedures for the 
development of the products, services and 
maintenance support are documented and 
reviewed frequently.
Corporate governance statement 
 
17753TELEPHON.indd   12 17753TELEPHON.indd   12 17/03/2010   17:16 17/03/2010   17:16 13
Stock code: TPH
17753 17/03/2010 Proof 6
OUR GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement
Internal audit: The Company does not operate 
an internal audit function; the board feels that 
this is appropriate due to the current size of 
the Group's business.
External audit: Executive management have a 
dialogue with the external auditors on matters 
arising from their work which is designed 
to express an opinion on the financial 
statements.
Dialogue with shareholders
The directors of the Company, together with 
the Company's advisors, hold meetings with 
the key shareholders, thereby helping to 
ensure that there is a mutual understanding of 
objectives.
Going concern
Based on the normal business planning and 
control procedures the directors have 
reasonable expectations that the Group will 
have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the directors continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
annual report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors have elected to 
prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and the company financial 
statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law the directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and company 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. The directors are also required to 
prepare financial statements in accordance 
with the rules of the London Stock Exchange 
for companies trading securities on AIM.
Telephonetics Plc
In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
 l select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
 l
make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 l state whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements;
 l prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the company's 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Website publication
The directors are responsible for ensuring the 
annual report and the financial statements are 
made available on a website. Financial 
statements are published on the company's 
website in accordance with legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements, 
which may vary from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity of 
the company's website is the responsibility of 
the directors. The directors' responsibility also 
extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial 
statements contained therein.
17753TELEPHON.indd   13 17753TELEPHON.indd   13 17/03/2010   17:16 17/03/2010   17:16