 15
Corporate Governance
T Th he e C Co om mb bi in ne ed d C Co od de e
The Group has considered the principles of
the Combined Code introduced in July 2003.
The Group has complied with the principles
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
and is committed to the effective
implementation of the principles of good
corporate governance.
T Th he e B Bo oa ar rd d
The Board consists of three Executive
Directors, two Non-executive Directors and a
Non-executive Chairman. 
The Non-executive Chairman is primarily
responsible for the running of the Board and
ensuring all Directors receive sufficient
information on financial, business and
corporate issues prior to meetings.  The Chief
Executive Officer is responsible for day-to-day
management of the business and for
implementing Group strategy.
The Board meets monthly and has a formal
schedule of matters reserved to it.  It is
responsible for overall Group strategy,
acquisition and disposal policy, approval of
major capital expenditure and consideration
of significant financial matters.  It is
responsible for the identification of key
business risks faced by the Group and ensures
plans are prepared for their mitigation.  The
Board sets and monitors high-level business
objectives based on financial, safety and
other performance criteria, which cascade
through to reporting entities and other
business units.  The Board also considers
environmental, employee issues and key
appointments.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code,
will submit themselves for re-election at least
once every three years.
Telspec has a formal procedure set out to give
Directors the right to consult the Company's
professional advisers and if necessary, seek
independent professional advice at the
Company's expense in the furtherance of
their duties as Directors of Telspec.
B Bo oa ar rd d C Co om mm mi it tt te ee es s
The Board has established and appointed a
Nominations Committee and a Remuneration
Committee, both chaired by the Non-
executive Chairman, and an Audit Committee
chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
These Board Committees report on their
deliberations to the full Board and discuss
findings and recommendations before
obtaining endorsement.  All Committees aim
to have at least two Non-executive Director
members, plus the Non-executive Chairman,
and the Committees are authorised to obtain
outside professional help where deemed
appropriate.
During the year neither an external
consultancy nor open advertising has been
used in the appointment of any Directors or
Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee makes
recommendations to the Board on all new
Board appointments.  The Committee meets at
least once a year, and also advises on general
Board composition.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the
remuneration packages of Executive
Directors, including the allocation of share
options, ensuring that such remuneration
levels are appropriate and acceptable.
The report of the Board to the shareholders
on Directors' remuneration is set out on pages
18 to 22.
The objective of the Audit Committee is to
ensure the objectivity and credibility of
financial reporting and to ensure that, in
presenting results to the shareholders, the
Directors have exercised due care, diligence
and skill.  The Chief Executive Officer, Group
Finance Director and Sales and Marketing
Director attend meetings by invitation.  The
Audit Committee holds meetings with the
external auditors whenever it feels it needs
advice or clarification of issues.  In any case,
the external auditors meet with the Audit
Committee formally at least twice per year.
                  The members of the Audit Committee are
Mark Skilbeck and John Thomas who are
independent Non-executive Directors and the
committee is chaired by Tony Harris.  
The frequency of Board and Committee
meetings during the year was as follows:
Board Meetings - 15 meetings held
Audit Committee - 4 meetings held
Remuneration Committee - 6 meetings held
Nomination Committee - 1 meeting held
Attendance at these meetings were as follows:
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
M. Skilbeck 15 46 1
J. Thomas 10 3 2 1
T.Harris 13 3 6 1
S. Rakkar 10
P. Thorpe 15
J. May 12
G. Burnett 4
The performance evaluation of Non-executive
Directors is undertaken by the Chairman.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman
is undertaken by the other Non-executive
Directors. 
S Se en ni io or r I In nd de ep pe en nd de en nt t D Di ir re ec ct to or r
Tony Harris continues as the Senior
Independent Director.
N No on n- -e ex xe ec cu ut ti iv ve e B Bo oa ar rd d c co om mm mi it tm me en nt ts s
In the Directors and Advisors section of the
Annual Report and Accounts the Chairman's
significant commitments have been disclosed.
There are no changes to these commitments. 
Tony Harris continues as a Director of  NTL
and has confirmed that he will still have time
to fulfil his role as a Non-executive Director.
John Thomas has also confirmed that he has
sufficient time to meet what is expected of
him as a Non-executive Director.
R Re el la at ti io on ns s w wi it th h S Sh ha ar re eh ho ol ld de er rs s
The Company encourages two-way
communication with both its institutional and
private shareholders, and will respond quickly
to all queries received whether orally or in
writing.  All shareholders have at least twenty
working days notice of the Annual General
Meeting at which the Directors and
Committee Chairmen are introduced and are
available for questions.
I In nt te er rn na al l C Co on nt tr ro ol l
The Directors are responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing
its effectiveness.  The Directors have reviewed
the effectiveness of the internal control
system, which has been in place from the
start of the year to the date of approval of
this report.  Such a system can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material mis-statement or loss.
The Group has a very comprehensive system
of reporting financial results to the Board;
each operating unit prepares monthly results
with a comparison against forecast.  The
Board reviews these for the Group as a whole
and determines appropriate action.
The key control procedures are described
under the following headings:
Q Qu ua al li it ty y a an nd d I In nt te eg gr ri it ty y o of f P Pe er rs so on nn ne el l
Employees are expected to consider and
respect one another and to strive to improve
quality, efficiency, safety and financial
performance.  It is the Group's policy to
invest in the people needed to support its
markets.  The Group's policies are detailed in
the Telspec Group Standing Orders to which
all operating units are required to adhere.
16
Corporate Governance (continued)
B Bo oa ar rd d C Co om mm mi it tt te ee es s ( (c co on nt ti in nu ue ed d) )
                                        O Op pe er ra at ti in ng g U Un ni it t F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l C Co on nt tr ro ol ls s
The Executive management has defined the
controls and procedures with which each
operating unit is required to comply.  Senior
members of the management review the
application of these procedures. 
I In nt te er rn na al l A Au ud di it t
The Board has reviewed the need for an
internal audit function and considers that, for
the time being, and given the size and
structure of the Group, the existing regular
reviews are adequate.
I In nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n a an nd d C Co om mp pu ut te er r S Sy ys st te em ms s
Much of the Group's financial and
management information is processed by and
stored on computer systems.  Accordingly, the
Group has established controls and procedures
over the security of data held on computer
systems.  Back-up copies of all data are taken
and retained on and off-site.
R Ri is sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the
Group was in place throughout the year.  The
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and
was updated during the year.  The process
accords with the Internal Control Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code produced by
the Turnbull Working Party.
Currently, risk management within the
organisation is undertaken by the management
team consisting of representatives of the
finance, operations, production, research and
development and sales functions, which meets
regularly to review the sales forecast, product
development, production programmes and
other operational and strategic risks.  A
prioritised list of potential risks is reviewed by
the Board monthly and the Chief Executive
Officer has responsibility for monitoring these
risks and reports back on a regular basis.  A
rolling forecast of the anticipated financial
results for the year is included in the monthly
management accounts, which are reviewed by
the Board.
Improvements will continue to be made to
embed internal control and risk management
further into the operations of the business and
to deal with areas of improvement, which
come to management and the Board's
attention.
E Ex xe ec cu ut ti iv ve e M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t B Bo oa ar rd d
The Chief Executive Officer manages the day-
to-day operational performance and risk areas
within the business with the assistance of the
Executive Management Board which
comprises:
Philip Thorpe - Acting Chief Executive Officer
Jeff May - Group Sales & Marketing 
Director
Gary Burnett - Group Finance Director
Fred White - Group Company Secretary
G Go oi in ng g C Co on nc ce er rn n
Having taken into account the Group's
current cash position, its cash flow
projections and the current banking facilities
available to it, the Directors are satisfied that
it is appropriate to produce the financial
statements on a going concern basis.
17
Corporate Governance (continued)
                               