 Corporate governance, in general terms, is the way in which a
company is controlled and directed and, in particular, is
concerned with the role of the Board of Directors, how the
Board and committees of the Board operate, and
accountability within a company.  
The Company's shares are listed on the Alternative Investment
Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange. The Group is
subject to the AIM Admission Rules of the London Stock
Exchange and is consequently not required to comply with
best practice corporate governance provisions contained
within Section 1 of the revised Combined Code (July 2003)
(Combined Code ) appended to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority. However, the Directors believe
good corporate governance is essential. Having considered
the provisions of the Combined Code, the Directors set out
below the principles of the Combined Code that the Group
has adopted and how the Group has applied these principles.
The current size of the Group means that full compliance with
the provisions of the Combined Code is not practical or cost
effective. However, in areas where the Board of Directors
believe that the provisions set out in the Combined Code are
paramount to corporate governance, procedures for
compliance have been established.
The Board
The Board of Directors is usually structured such that it
includes a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As at 31 December 2005, the Board comprised five
Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director, the Chief
Executive Officer. In November 2005, the Group Finance
Director, Mr G P Ffoulkes-Davies, had his employment
contract terminated and a search is underway for his
successor. At present, Mr G P Ffoulkes Davies remains a Non-
Executive Director. The Executive Director and the Non-
Executive Directors bring a wide range of business experience
and expertise to the Board's discussions and decision making.
The Board of Directors has put in place an organisational
structure with clearly defined responsibilities and delegation 
of authority. Biographical details of all the Directors are 
set out on the Company's website, www.tepnel.com. 
The Board considers that two of the Non-Executives are
independent of management (Mr M Miller and Mr A Clark).
Two of the Non-Executive Directors provide consultancy
services relating to corporate development for which they are
rewarded on a time spent basis. Mr I A Craig, the Non-
Executive Chairman, is a Senior Partner at Halliwells LLP ,
Solicitors, which provides legal services to the Group.
Mr D R Marvin provided consultancy services to the Group
through Cairn Associates during the year in connection with
the research collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim. The
Executive Directors rely upon the advice tendered by the
Non-Executive Directors, particularly in connection with
technical and legal issues. 
11
Corporate Governance Statements Corporate Governance Statements (continued)
The full Board meets formally at least four times each year to
consider all matters of significance for the Group as they arise,
as well as matters reserved specifically for their consideration.
These matters include development of business strategy and
policy, the review and approval of operating budgets and
monitoring of business performance against objectives, the
approval of significant financing and capital expenditure
programmes, the approval of business alliances and
acquisitions and disposals, the approval of interim and annual
financial statements and consideration of matters relating to
internal control. The Board is supplied in a timely manner with
all relevant information to assist it in the discharge of its duties. 
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable
rules and regulations are complied with. There is a formal
procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional
advice in the furtherance of their duties should that be
necessary, the cost of which would be met by the Company. 
To facilitate the effective running of each individual business
unit, the Board of Directors has put in place an organisational
structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and
delegation of authority. Senior management meet monthly to
monitor and discuss all major issues affecting the Company
which do not require Board discussion or approval by other
Board Committees. The Company does not presently have a
Nomination Committee, as it is not believed to be appropriate
given the Group's present size. The Board continues to keep
this decision under review. It is the Company's policy to
appoint Non-Executive Directors for specified terms (normally
three years), subject to re-election. All Directors are subject to
election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their initial
appointment, and to re-election thereafter in accordance with
the articles of association.
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that its policies
on remuneration are such that the Group is able to attract and
retain high calibre executives, and that those executives are
rewarded in a way consistent with the interests of
shareholders. Remuneration and incentive packages are
awarded according to the individual's performance, experience
and responsibility. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises four Non-Executive
Directors and is chaired by Mr M Miller. The Executive
Directors attend meetings of the Committee by invitation. The
Committee meets at least annually and is responsible for
making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration
policy of the Executive Directors and senior staff, and for
determining salaries, incentive payments and longer term
incentives in the form of share options. Shareholders would be
invited to approve any new long-term incentive schemes
which might potentially give rise to a significant dilution in their
equity.  The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set
by the Executive Directors ensuring that no Director is
responsible for the determination of their own remuneration. 
In determining the level of remuneration, individual
performance and competitiveness within the sector is
considered when setting or reviewing the remuneration
package of Executive Directors. Details of Directors
emoluments are disclosed at Note 6 to the financial
statements.
Accountability and Audit
All the Directors are equally accountable under the 
law for the proper stewardship of the Group's affairs. The
Board acts in a way which allows all Directors to bring their
independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy,
performance, resources, including key appointments and
standards of conduct.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors
and is chaired by Mr D Marvin. It has primary responsibility for
ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is
properly measured and reported on, and for reporting on and
reviewing reports from the Group's auditors relating to the
Group's accounting controls. The Committee monitors the
scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit. 
Internal Control
The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Group
maintains an adequate system of risk management and internal
control. Due to the relatively small size of the Group, the
processes it has employed to identify, evaluate and manage
significant business risk have been informal, and have depended
upon the close involvement of senior management, including the
Executive Directors in all aspects of the Group's operations.
TEPNEL LIFE SCIENCES PLC   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
12 The Group maintains an adequate system of risk management
and internal control, and an internal control environment which,
in the opinion of the Directors, is appropriate for the Group's
size and complexity. These controls include a budgeting
system with an annual operating budget approved by the
Board of Directors, a comprehensive financial reporting system,
comparing actual results to budget (with variations from budget
being thoroughly investigated with corrective action taken by
the Directors as appropriate), the provision of monthly
management accounts, annual budgets and forecasts, and
operational limits on the delegation of financial authority.
Full management accounts are normally issued within ten
working days following the month-end. Full financial forecast
updates are produced bi-annually and the Group reports to
shareholders bi-annually. 
The Group does not currently have an internal audit function.
The Board believes that this is appropriate given the current
size of the Group. 
With the adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards in 2007, the Board is looking at the development of
a plan to address these areas and ensure full compliance by
31 December 2007.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company seeks to maintain and enhance its good
relations with its shareholders. This is achieved through the
provision of interim and annual reports; through meeting with
shareholders and presentations to them in general meetings
and after major company announcements; by responses to
individual enquires; and through the Company's website,
www.tepnel.com. The Annual General Meeting is the primary
opportunity to meet individual shareholders, to make
presentations to them, to encourage their participation
through questions and to talk informally to them after the
formal proceedings. Separate resolutions are proposed at the
Annual General Meeting on each substantially separate issue.
The Board is always ready, where practicable, to enter into
dialogue with institutional and individual shareholders 
based on the mutual understanding of objectives. 