 12 TEPNEL LIFE SCIENCES PLC   ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
Corporate governance, in general terms,
is the way in which a company is
controlled and directed and, in particular,
is concerned with the role of the Board
of Directors, how the Board and
committees of the Board operate, and
accountability within a company.
The company's shares are listed on the
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of
the London Stock Exchange. The Group
is subject to the AIM Admission Rules of
the London Stock Exchange and is
consequently not required to comply
with best practice corporate governance
provisions contained within Section 1 of
the Combined Code appended to the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. However, the Directors believe
good corporate governance is essential
and having considered the provisions of
the Combined Code; set out below how
the principles of the Combined Code
have been applied in the Group and the
extent of current compliance. The current
size of the Group means that full
compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code is not practicable or
cost effective. However, in areas where
the Board of Directors believe that the
provisions set out in the Combined 
Code are paramount to corporate
governance, procedures for compliance
have been established. 
The Board 
The Board of Directors includes a
balance of Executive and Non-Executive
Directors. As of 31 December 2003, the
Board comprised three Non-Executive
Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are the Chief
Executive Officer and the Group Finance
Director. The Executive Directors and the
Non-Executive Directors bring a wide
range of business experience and
expertise to the Board's discussions and
decision making. The Board of Directors
has put in place an organisational
structure with clearly defined
responsibilities and delegation of
authority. Biographical details of all the
Directors are set out on the company's
website (www.tepnel.com).
Of the three Non-Executive Directors, the
Board considers that two are independent
of management. The Non-Executive
Directors provide consultancy services
relating to transactions for which they are
rewarded on a time spent basis. The
Non-Executive Chairman, Mr I A Craig is
a Senior Partner at Halliwell Landau,
Solicitors, which provide legal services to
the Group. The Executive Directors rely
upon the advice tendered by the 
Non-Executive Directors, particularly 
in connection with technical and 
legal issues.
The full Board meets formally at least
four times each year to consider all
matters of significance for the Group as
they arise, as well as matters reserved
specifically for their consideration. These
matters include development of business
strategy and policy, the review and
approval of operating budgets and
monitoring of business performance
against objectives, the approval of
significant financing and capital
expenditure programmes, the approval of
business alliances and acquisitions and
disposals, the approval of interim and
annual financial statements and
consideration of matters relating to
internal control. The Board is supplied
in a timely manner with all relevant
information to assist it in the discharge 
of its duties. 
All the Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company
Secretary, Mr G P Ffoulkes-Davies, who
is responsible to the Board for ensuring
that Board procedures are followed and
that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. There is a formal
procedure for Directors to obtain
independent professional advice in the
furtherance of their duties should that be
necessary, the cost of which would be
met by the company.
Corporate Governance Statements 13 TEPNEL LIFE SCIENCES PLC   ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
To facilitate the effective running of each
individual business unit, the Board of
Directors has put in place an
organisational structure with clearly
defined lines of responsibility and
delegation of authority. Senior
management meet monthly to monitor
and discuss all major issues affecting 
the company which do not require 
Board discussion or approval by other
Board Committees. 
The company does not presently 
have a Nomination Committee, as 
it is not believed to be appropriate 
given the Group's present size. The
Board continues to keep this decision
under review. 
It is the company's policy to appoint
Non-Executive Directors for specified
terms (normally three years), subject 
to re-election. All Directors are subject 
to election by shareholders at the 
first opportunity after their initial
appointment, and to re-election
thereafter in accordance with the 
articles of association.
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee seeks to
ensure that its policies on remuneration
are such that the Group is able to attract
and retain high calibre executives, and
that those executives are rewarded in a
way consistent with the interests of
shareholders. Remuneration and
incentive packages are awarded
according to the individual's performance,
experience and responsibility. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises
the three Non-Executive Directors and is
chaired by Mr M Miller. The Chief
Executive Officer and Group Finance
Director attend meetings of the
Committee by invitation. The Committee
meets at least annually and is responsible
for making recommendations to the
Board on the remuneration policy of the
Executive Directors and senior staff, and
for determining salaries, incentive
payments and longer term incentives in
the form of share options. Shareholders
would be invited to approve any new
long-term incentive schemes which
might potentially materially dilute their
equity. The remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors is set by the
Executive Directors ensuring that 
no Director is responsible for the
determination of their own remuneration.
In determining the level of remuneration,
individual performance and
competitiveness within the sector
is considered when setting or reviewing
the remuneration package of Executive
Directors. Details of Directors
emoluments are disclosed at Note
seven to the financial statements. 
Accountability and Audit
All the Directors are equally accountable
under the law for the proper stewardship
of the Company's affairs. The Board acts
in a way which allows all Directors to
bring their independent judgement to
bear on issues of strategy, performance,
resources, including key appointments
and standards of conduct. 14 TEPNEL LIFE SCIENCES PLC   ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the
three Non-Executive Directors and is
chaired by Mr D Marvin. It has primary
responsibility for ensuring that the
financial performance of the Group is
properly measured and reported on, and
for reporting on and reviewing reports
from the Group's auditors relating to the
Group's accounting controls. The
Committee monitors the scope, results
and cost effectiveness of the audit. 
Internal Control
The Board of Directors is responsible for
ensuring that the Group maintains an
adequate system of risk management
and internal control. Due to the relatively
small size of the Group, the processes it
has employed to identify, evaluate and
manage significant business risk have
been informal, and have depended upon
the close involvement of senior
management, including the two
Executive Directors in all aspects of the
Group's operations. 
At present, the Group operates a system
of internal financial controls which is
regarded by the Board of Directors as
appropriate for the Group's current size
and complexity. These controls include a
budgeting system with an annual
operating budget approved by the Board
of Directors. A comprehensive financial
reporting system, as a matter of routine,
comparing actual results to budget (with
variations from budget being thoroughly
investigated with corrective action taken
by the Directors as appropriate), the
provision of monthly management
accounts, annual budgets and forecasts,
and operational limits on the delegation
of financial authority. 
Full management accounts are issued
within ten working days following the
month-end. Full financial forecast
updates are produced bi-annually and
the Group reports to shareholders 
bi-annually. 
The Group does not currently have an
internal audit function. The Board
believes that this is appropriate given the
current size of the Group. 
With the adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards in 2005,
the Board has assessed the areas 
which it believes the Group is affected
by, and is developing a plan to address
these areas.  
Relations with Shareholders
The company seeks to maintain and
enhance its good relations with its
shareholders. This is achieved through
the provision of interim and annual
reports; through meeting with
shareholders and presentations to them
in general meetings and after major
company announcements; by responses
to individual enquires; and through the
company's website, www.tepnel.com. 
The Annual General Meeting is the
primary opportunity to meet individual
shareholders, to make presentations to
them, to encourage their participation
through questions and to talk informally
to them after the formal proceedings.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the
Annual General Meeting on each
substantially separate issue.
The Board is always ready, where
practicable, to enter into dialogue with
institutional and individual shareholders
based on the mutual understanding
of objectives.
Corporate Governance Statements (continued)