 16 THERATASE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Compliance
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders 
for good governance. The information and statements below
describe how the Company applies the principles identified
in the Combined Code - Principles of Good Governance 
and Code of Best Practice published in June 1998.
In addition the Board also supports the principles contained 
in the revised Combined Code issued on 23 July 2003. These 
are effective for the Group in its reporting for the year ended
30 September 2005. Following a review of the revised 
code's requirements, the Board has put plans in place for
implementation.
The Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for the effective and proper
management of the Group.
The composition and biographies of the Board are set out 
on page 12. The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive
Chairman, two Non-Executive Directors and three Executive
Directors. There is a clear delineation of responsibility between
the Chairman, the Chief Executive and other Executives.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved 
for its decision. This includes overall Group and corporate
strategy and determining the Group's long term objectives;
monitoring financial performance and approval of preliminary
announcements and published report and accounts;
acquisitions and disposals; approval of the annual budget;
approval of major capital expenditure; risk management and
treasury policies; the determination of dividend policy and
corporate governance.
The Board meets formally at least every two months. Board
papers are sent to all Directors in advance of each Board
meeting including management accounts and accompanying
reports from Executive Directors. At each meeting the Board 
is briefed on issues arising, reviews the progress of the Group
towards its objectives and monitors financial performance
against budget and forecast. Operational control is delegated
by the Board to the Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors
are able to contact the Executive Directors at any time for
further information.
The Board is of the opinion that the Chairman and Dr Aikman
are independent of executive management and that there are
no relationships which could affect the independence of their
judgement. Mr de Kock, who acts as a Non-Executive Director
of the Company, is employed as Chairman of Seravac Biotech
(Proprietary) Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. All Directors
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary
who is responsible to the Board as a whole for ensuring that
Board procedures are properly followed and that applicable rules
and regulations are complied with. On appointment new Directors
are provided with appropriate training.
All Directors are required to stand for re-election at the first Annual
General Meeting following their appointment. At every Annual
General Meeting one third of the Board, who are subject to
rotation, retire from office. Non-Executive Directors are appointed
for a fixed term of a maximum of one year. At the end of the fixed
term their suitability for re-appointment is considered. The terms
and conditions are set out in their letter of appointment as
detailed in the Remuneration Report. Non-Executive Directors do
not participate in Company share incentive schemes and their
service is non-pensionable. Mr de Kock in his role as Executive
Chairman of Seravac has a personal provident fund scheme to
which Seravac contributes as part of his cost to the company.
Board Committees
The Company has the following Board Committees:
(i) The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Percival, who acts as
Chairman, and Dr Aikman. The Committee meets at least twice
a year with the auditors in attendance. The terms of reference
include: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of
the Group; the review of the annual accounts and interim
statement to ensure compliance with generally accepted
accounting principles and to satisfy itself as to the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group's audit and control procedures.
(ii) The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr Percival who acts
as Chairman and Dr Aikman. The Committee meets when
required to do so. Terms of reference for the Committee
include: determining, and agreeing with the Board, the total
individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors;
reviewing the design for share incentive plans for approval by
the Board and shareholders; and approving the design of,
targets for, and payments made under performance related 
pay schemes.
Given the size of the Group the Board does not consider a
nomination committee appropriate.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders, mainly in the periods following the announcement
of the interim and final results but also at other permitted 
times during the year, particularly when proposed transactions
require shareholders' approval. The Board also encourages the
participation of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
All Board members attend the Annual General Meeting and 
in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive are available 
to answer questions.
The Company proposes separate resolutions at the Annual
General Meeting for each substantially separate issue. There is
always a separate resolution relating to the annual report and
accounts and adoption of the Directors' Remuneration Report. 
Corporate Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 THERATASE PLC 17
The Chairman counts all proxy votes at general meetings 
and will make available the proxy votes for and against each
resolution, together with any abstentions, after it has been 
dealt with on a show of hands.
In addition to meeting its obligation to shareholders, the Board
recognises that it has a responsibility to the Group's customers,
employees, suppliers and the communities in which it operates
and invests.
All published information, including press releases, is available
on the Theratase website www.theratase.com.
Internal control
The objective of the Directors and senior management is to
safeguard the value of the business and assets of the Group.
Part of this objective requires the development of relevant
policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure proper
management of the Group's resources and the identification
of risks which might serve to undermine them.
The Board acknowledges that it has ultimate responsibility for
the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing their
effectiveness. However it is recognised that these systems are
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable,
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss and eliminating the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives.
As prescribed in the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on
internal control an ongoing process has been established for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced
by the Group. This process has been in place throughout the
year in review and up to the date of the approval of the annual
report and accounts.
The Board has established a risk management committee
(the Risk Committee ) chaired by Dr Aikman, which includes
Mr Anderson and Ms Rooke. It reviews the risk management
and control processes and reports to the Board. The Risk
Committee considers:
  The key risks inherent in the business and their identification,
evaluation and management;
  The effectiveness of the control systems in managing 
those risks;
  The response to significant risks which have been identified;
  The changes between annual assessments in significant risks
and the Group's ability to respond to changes in the business
environment;
  The scope and quality of management's ongoing monitoring 
of risks;
  The communication of monitoring results to the Board; and
  The actual and potential impact of any risks on financial
performance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its systems during
the year in the following key areas:
Strategy including: business strategy, the future
direction of the Group, reputation and value.
Compliance including: compliance with Listing Rules,
Director's duties, and general regulatory
compliance.
Legal including: employment risks, environmental,
health and safety issues, intellectual property,
insurance risks and cover, and acquisitions.
Financial including: detailed budgets, plans and
forecasts, which are approved by the Group
Board; preparation of business plans, which
include the identification of, and the
assessment of business risks; monitoring of,
actual results compared with budgets and
updated forecasts; defined procedures for
the appraisal, review, and authorisation of
capital expenditure.
Market including: market place, regulatory changes,
customer service, and product risks.
Production including: development, production and
quality assurance.
Communication including: communication, information
technology and website.
A corporate Risk Register is reviewed regularly and updated
annually as a means of identifying and evaluating the significant
risks, which may affect the Group and the policies and
procedures by which these risks are managed.
In view of the current size of the Group, the Risk Management
Committee believe that the above procedures are adequate and
consequently the creation of an internal audit function is not
deemed necessary.
Going concern
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Compliance with the Combined Code
During the year ended 30 September 2004 the Company has
been in compliance with the requirements of the Combined
Code in place during the year except in the following areas:
  The Audit Committee comprises of two independent Non-
Executive Directors and not at least three as is required. 
This reflects the current size of the Group.
  The Board believes that given its size and constitution it is
not appropriate to specify a senior  Non-Executive Director 
or to appoint a nomination committee.