 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 29
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
The Tibbett & Britten Board is committed to business integrity and professionalism in all its activities. As part of this commitment,
the Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance,
which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the development of best practice. 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance except that for a short period of time there was an imbalance between executive
and non-executive directors, Combined Code Provision A.3. However, it is not considered that such a situation has led to a domination
of the Board's decision making by any one individual or small group of individuals. The Company's commitment to achieving a balance
of executive and non-executive directors is shown by the fact that during the last year the number of executives has reduced by
two whilst the number of non-executives has remained the same at three.
Further commentary relating to internal controls can be found on page 31.
The Board and Board committees 
The Board comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, three other executive directors, and three non-executive directors. Their details
appear on pages 18, 19 and 20. Executive directors have responsibility for making and implementing operational decisions and
running the Group's businesses. The non-executive directors add to the skills and experience of the executive directors, contributing
to the formulation of policy and decision-making through their knowledge and experience of other businesses and sectors.
The Board meets at least eight times a year. The Board has sought to ensure that directors are properly briefed on issues arising
at Board meetings by establishing procedures for: distributing Board papers one week in advance of meetings; considering the
adequacy of the information provided before making decisions; deferring decisions when directors have concerns about the
information available to them. The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and the continued timelines and quality
of information is kept under review. All directors have access to the advice of the Secretary and independent professional advice
is available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the Company's expense. 
No non-executive director has been on the Board for more than seven years and none of them has any significant business 
or other relationship with the Group. All of them are considered to be independent. Edward Buchan is the recognised senior 
non-executive director on the Board.
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading and controlling the Company by disseminating throughout the
Group the Group's current strategy and also by introducing periodical breakfast meetings whereby the Chief Executive Officer 
Mike Arrowsmith explains that strategy to senior employees and seeks their comment and input. Both the executive and 
non-executive directors make regular visits to the Group's businesses and meet with senior management to facilitate their
understanding of the Group. Directors are also offered appropriate training, especially if they have not previously been appointed 
to the Board of a listed company.
At each Annual General Meeting, one-third of the directors retire and offer themselves for re-election. This means that each director
stands for re-election at least once every three years. All directors are now subject to re-election every two years rather than every
three years as required by the provisions of the Combined Code.
Board committees
Specific responsibilities have been delegated to the Board committees. The three principal Board committees are:
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nominations committee
Edward Buchan, Chairman Bill Thomson, Chairman John Harvey, Chairman
Bill Thomson Edward Buchan Edward Buchan
Robert Wood Robert Wood Bill Thomson
The audit committee meets at least three times a year with the Group's senior management, the internal audit team and the external
auditors to review, inter alia, the Group's annual and interim financial statements, internal audit and compliance reports and the
effectiveness of the Group's systems of risk assessment and internal control. Periodically, it also approves and reviews the appointment
and retirement of the external auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group.
The remuneration committee meets at least twice a year. Its role is described further in the section on remuneration. 
The nominations committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, except when the committee is considering the succession of the
Group Chairman, in which case the Chairman of the audit committee also chairs the nominations committee. The committee's
other members are all non-executive directors. The committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board on all new
Board appointments. Corporate governance (continued)
Pension schemes
There are several pension arrangements within the Group. The principal UK scheme is the Tibbett & Britten Pension Scheme. The
corporate trustee of the Tibbett & Britten Pension Scheme is Tibbett & Britten Pension Trust Limited, the Board of which currently
comprises three appointees of Tibbett & Britten Group plc and five other members, four of whom are nominated by the employee
members of the schemes. The Chairman of the Board is Sidney Gould, who retired as Vice Chairman of Tibbett & Britten Group plc
in 1994. Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their accrued benefits. The assets of the pension schemes are
held separately from those of the Group and are independently managed by professional fund management companies.
Relations with shareholders
Tibbett & Britten encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting, which provides an opportunity for shareholders 
to ask questions of the Board, including the Chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees. The Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting and all related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. 
The Group also makes full use of the internet in its external communications, and has a detailed and regularly updated website 
at www.tibbett-britten.com. This is linked to a number of daughter sites, some in local languages.
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders by making
an annual strategic presentation to institutional investors; meeting shareholders to discuss long term issues and obtain feedback;
communicating regularly throughout the year and issuing trading updates.
Social, environmental and ethical matters
The Board understands the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the Group's business and takes regular
account of them.
The Group made charitable donations of  0.1m during the year. It is the policy of the Group to contribute to relevant and
worthwhile community causes wherever it operates.
Tibbett & Britten continues to be a prime supporter, both financially and in kind, of TRANSAID Worldwide - the UK-based transport
industry charity. Mr Harvey is the current Chairman of TRANSAID. The charity operates in some of the most deprived regions of the
world, and aims to improve the effectiveness of transport in contributing to economic and social development, and the alleviation
of poverty. Its projects are designed to provide lasting solutions (see www.transaid.org for more information).
In North America, member companies are encouraged to contribute to causes in the local communities which they serve, such 
as school district programmes and campaigns for families in need. Several member companies have memberships in United Way
and Red Cross.
The Group makes no political donations and has not incurred any political expenditure during the year under review.
Tibbett & Britten is committed to minimising damage to the environment and has developed standards for good environmental
management. It is implementing an environmental action plan which involves all staff with a view to meeting or exceeding
all relevant environmental standards. The Company pursues policies to reduce energy use and cut the emission of greenhouse
gases. It signed a comprehensive corporate environmental policy in 1992, and remains committed to reducing energy consumption,
waste and pollution.
To support this policy, our Environmental Management System ensures that there is a main Board director, Mr Hammad, responsible
for these matters and that the risks identified are appropriately managed. Mr Hammad reports to the Board on any significant risks
to, and opportunities for, the Group which arise. There are local trainers to co-ordinate the environmental programme.
Joint Retail Logistics, the Group's 50% owned general merchandise transport contractor (in association with dedicated customer
Marks & Spencer) won a 2002 Motor Transport Award for improving the environmental benefits of urban vehicles.
The Group continues to use its Energy and Environmental Checklist for warehouse design and refurbishment. Under thirty-nine
headings - ranging from  Insulation' to  Oil Storage Management' - this specifies energy and water conservation features to be
considered in any new warehouse development or before refurbishment of existing facilities.
The Group continues to specify the latest, most fuel-efficient engines for its vehicles and invests in technical and aerodynamic features
to improve fuel efficiency. Planned maintenance programmes ensure that vehicles operate in peak mechanical condition with the
lowest possible levels of exhaust emissions. Drivers are trained and retrained, and provided with incentives for fuel-efficient driving.
Tibbett & Britten continues to take action to maximise the proportion of waste that it recycles, thereby cutting both the quantity
of waste to landfill (reducing methane gas) and the amount of transport used in its collection and disposal (reducing air pollution).
The Group's approach to employee involvement is described in the report of the directors on page 21. An ethical policy was
introduced in 2001 and has since been communicated throughout the Group. Employees are expected to comply with this policy in
all their business dealings.
30 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002