 48
INTERNAL CONTROL
Financial plans
Each business prepares financial plans in accordance with a
prescribed format, which includes consideration of risks.
Group-level management reviews the financial plans with the
business units and a summary is presented to the Board for
approval.
Balance sheet reviews and walkthroughs of controls
Business unit and Group-level financial management conduct
periodic on-site reviews of the underlying rationale, support
and controls for the significant line item components
comprising the balance sheets for each business in the Group.
Additionally, remote  walkthroughs' of controls over
transaction processes for our newer, smaller businesses and
joint ventures are conducted to reach those distant locales
cost-effectively.
Investment project authorisation
All significant investment project expenditures are subject to a
formal investment project authorisation process which takes
into account, inter alia, operational, financial and technical
risks. Post-investment analysis is conducted to facilitate
continuous improvement in the investment planning process,
including risk identification and mitigation.
Reporting, analysis and forecasts
All businesses are required to report monthly to Group-level
management on financial performance. Comparisons are made
with plan, forecast and prior year, and significant variances and
changes in the business environment are explained. Each
business formally reassesses its forecast for the financial year
on a quarterly basis with monthly updates by exception. At the
half-year and during the preparation of the annual financial
plan, each business prepares a forecast for the following
18 months and reviews projections for the current and
following year.
Financial strategy
The financial strategy includes assessment of the major
financial risks related to interest rate exposure, foreign currency
exposure, debt maturity and liquidity. There is a comprehensive
global insurance programme in place, relying principally on the
strength of the Group's financial reserves in the form of
retained risk self-insurance in concert with the external
insurance market for excess and catastrophic cover. Group
Treasury manages hedging activities, relating to financial risks,
with external cover for net currency transaction exposures.
The Group Tax function manages tax compliance and tax risks
associated with the Group's activities. The Audit Committee,
through periodic direct reports from the Group Treasurer and
the Vice-President, Tax, oversees the financial strategy as well
as the tax strategy, and considers the associated risks and
risk-management techniques being used by the Group.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group's system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. To fulfil
this responsibility, the Directors have established a Performance
Management Framework within which each of the Group's
businesses operates. Within this framework, the management
of each of the businesses considers strategic, operational,
commercial and financial risks, and identifies risk-mitigation
actions. Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the
system of internal control, the Directors are aware that the
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide
reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
During the period under review, the Directors were not aware
of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss to
the Group.
The Performance Management Framework, which includes an
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place
throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of
the Directors' Report. Each business unit's management
identifies and assesses the key business risks affecting the
achievement of its objectives. Business unit management also
identifies the risk management processes used to mitigate the
key risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate,
additional actions required to further manage and mitigate
them. The risk summaries developed out of this process are
updated at least annually. In addition, Group-level
management considers those risks to the Group's strategic
objectives that may not be identified and managed at the
business unit level. The key risks, which are detailed on
pages 34 to 37, and mitigation strategies are also discussed
at least annually with the Audit Committee as well as the
full Board.
The risk management processes described above are applied to
major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well as
operational risks within the business including environmental,
health and safety.
The other key elements of the Performance Management
Framework, which constitutes the Company's control
environment, are set out below.
Business strategy reviews
Each business is required to prepare a strategic position
assessment taking into account the current and likely future
market environment and competitive position of the business
with specific consideration given to strategic risk. Group-level
management reviews the strategy with each business and the
Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
Business reviews
On a quarterly basis, Group-level management performs
extensive reviews with each business. These reviews consider
current and projected financial and operating results, and
address the progress of key strategic and operating initiatives
and risk management activities. 49
Internal Control
Governance
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director evaluated the
effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and
procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as at 2 January 2010.
Based on such evaluation, those officers concluded that, as
at 2 January 2010, the Company's disclosure controls and
procedures were effective in ensuring that information required
to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files
or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarised and reported within the time periods specified
in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information
is accumulated and communicated to the Company's
management, including the Chief Executive and the Finance
Director, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosures.
Internal Audit
The Group has an established internal audit function; the Vice-
President, Internal Audit directs the activities of the internal
auditors on a day-to-day basis and has a direct reporting line
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Internal Audit's
responsibilities include performing independent objective
assurance activities in order to evaluate the adequacy and
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control and risk
management processes. The Internal Audit plan is constructed
to provide geographic coverage on a cyclical basis and tailored
to address specific risk concerns. During the year, Internal Audit
reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its internal audit
reviews of the Group's operations.
The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of
internal control for the year ended 2 January 2010 has been
reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for
Directors in the Combined Code.
Reporting certifications
In connection with the preparation of the annual financial
statements, senior business general management and financial
management sign a certificate which includes a declaration
regarding the existence of internal controls, the proper
recording of transactions and the identification and evaluation
of significant business risks. These certifications were expanded
to encompass section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley in support of
statements required to be made by the Company's Chief
Executive and Finance Director.
Sarbanes-Oxley
As a foreign private issuer listed on the NYSE in the US,
the Group is subject to the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley.
In particular, section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires an
assessment and certification by management regarding the
effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and
requires the independent auditors to express an opinion on
such internal controls. Accordingly, the Group undertakes each
year a comprehensive, risk-based approach to testing its
internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements
of section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. The Company's management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting and the Company's
Chief Executive and Finance Director have issued their report
attesting to the Group's compliance with section 404 of
Sarbanes-Oxley as at 2 January 2010. While management's
certification and the independent auditors' opinion on internal
controls over financial reporting are reported as required in the
Company's SEC filings, the results of its compliance with
Sarbanes-Oxley also serve to underpin the internal control
framework for the Group.
During the year ended 2 January 2010, there have not been
any changes in the Group's internal controls over financial
reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, those controls.