 32 
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
Corporate Governance Statement
Rt. Hon. Michael Jack (Chairman of the Board)
Dear shareholder, 
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council (the Code ) for which the Board is accountable to shareholders. 
Statement of compliance with the Code 
The Company has complied throughout the period with the Provisions of the Code except for provision B.6.1 and B.6.2, as the Board 
does not currently undertake formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its committees on the basis that it considers an informal 
rolling programme of review appropriate. 
The Company complies with all other provisions of the Code. During 2012 the Board has been strengthened with the addition of two new 
independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board of Directors comprises six members, of which four are considered independent including the Company's Non-Executive 
Chairman, RT. Hon. Michael Jack. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Alan White, who also chairs the Audit Committee. 
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 26 and 27. The Board meets at least ten times a year. Certain defined issues 
are reserved for the Board including approval of Financial Statements and circulars, annual budgets, strategy, Directors' appointments, 
internal control and risk management, corporate governance, key external and internal appointments and pensions and employee 
incentives.
In advance of Board Meetings Directors are supplied with up to date information about trading performance, the Group's overall financial 
position and its achievement against prior year, budgets and forecasts. 
Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. All Directors have access to the 
Company Secretary and they may also address specific issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
In line with the updated UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors are subject to annual re-election. Directors are elected at the first 
AGM after appointment. All Non-Executive Directors have written letters of appointment. 
The Board considers that the Rt. Hon. Michael Jack, Alan White, Claire Tiney and Andy King are independent for the purposes of the 
Code. The terms and conditions for the appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection on request.
The Board acknowledges the Code's position with respect to the potential loss of independence for any Non-Executive Director who has 
served for nine years or more. Although the Rt. Hon. Michael Jack has exceeded this term the Board regards him to be independent and 
considers his broad based commercial experience and extensive business specific knowledge to be extremely beneficial. 
The Board will review the independence of Non-Executive Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board operates three committees. These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee. 
All of these committees meet regularly and have formal written terms of reference which are available for inspection on request.
Attendance at Board/Committee meetings
The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 52 week period ended 29 September 2012 
and the attendance record of the individual Directors.
Board
of Directors
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings 1 1 2 5 2
J.M. Jack 1 1 2 N/A N/A
M.T.M. Williams 1 1 2 N/A N/A
N.D. Ounstead (resigned 25 April 2012) 7 1 N/A N/A 
R. Parker 1 1 2 N/A N/A
A. White 1 1252
C. Tiney (appointed 12 December 201 1) 9 1 5 2
A. King (appointed 23 January 2012) 7 1 5 2
Statement about applying the principles of the Code
The Company has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code as reported above. Further explanation of how the 
principles of the Code have been applied in connection with Directors' remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
GOVERNANCE 33
Review of the Business Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman is Alan White and the other members are Claire Tiney and 
Andy King. The qualifications of the Audit Committee members are detailed on page 27.
The Audit Committee considers the nature and scope of the audit process (both internal and external) and its effectiveness. The Committee 
reviews and approves the internal audit programme, meets with the external auditor and considers the Annual and Interim Financial 
Statements before submission to the Board. The Committee reviews the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns 
about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The Committee is responsible for the review of the Company's 
key strategic risks and this process is performed by the Committee Chairman in conjunction with a number of senior operational managers. 
The Committee also reviews the Group's system of internal control and reports its findings twice a year to the Board. The Committee meets 
with the external auditor and the rest of the Board attend at the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman.
Part of the role of the Audit Committee is to review the independence of the Company's auditor. The Company's external auditor, Deloitte LLP 
(Deloitte ), has provided non-audit services to the Company in the form of tax advice. The Audit Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has 
adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained. The Audit Committee is 
aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could lead to a potential conflict of interest. The level of fees paid to Deloitte LLP for 
non-audit services has been considered by the Audit Committee and is not perceived to be in conflict with auditor independence. In order 
to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the external auditor, there is an established policy regarding the provision of 
non-audit services. The Audit Committee has concluded that the auditor, Deloitte, is independent.
Deloitte has been auditor for the Group since September 2003. The current audit partner's first period of signing partner was the financial 
period ending 1 October 2011. The Audit Committee considers the work of Deloitte and their independence in deciding whether an audit 
tender is required and, at this point in time, is satisfied by the work of Deloitte and their independence, and so has proposed their 
re-appointment.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Andy King. The other members are Alan White and Claire Tiney. The formal terms of reference 
for this Committee require it to make recommendations to the Board for appointments of Directors and other senior executive staff. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria, taking into account the skills and experience required. Where 
appropriate, external search consultants are enlisted.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making 
annual presentations and communicating regularly throughout the year. The Company also posts financial information on its website www.
toppstiles.co.uk.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been put in place from the start of the period to the 
date of the approval of this report and which is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 
(The Turnbull Guidance). The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. A summary of the key risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Business 
Review section of this report.
In compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control. 
The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. It is based 
principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled 
and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Board has also 
performed a specific assessment for the purposes of this Annual Report. This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control 
arising during the period covered by the report including the work of Internal Audit. The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging 
its review responsibilities.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses 
which it has determined to be significant. Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered necessary.
Rt. Hon. Michael Jack,
Chairman of the Board
26 November 2012
GOVERNANCE