 The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  The Board considers that it has complied throughout the
year under review with the principles set out in the revised Combined Code on corporate governance published by the
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 ('the 'Combined Code'), except where indicated below (in relation to membership of
the audit committee).  
The Board and its Composition
Brief descriptions of the present board members are given on page 14.  John Grant, who was previously the Senior
Independent Director, was appointed as Chairman on 21 July 2005, at which point David MacKay was nominated as the Senior
Independent Director. David Price retired in December 2005 as Chief Technical Officer, with the Board not seeking to fill that
position going forward. Since these changes, the Board therefore comprises three executive directors, a non executive
chairman and two non-executive directors.  
The Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and
judgment and to be free from any business or other relationship or circumstance that could impact such independence.  
The Company's Articles of Association require that all directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first annual
general meeting after appointment and thereafter at least once every three years.
The Board structure creates a balance such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate decision making.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly separated and have defined responsibilities. The Chairman sets the
agenda for board meetings and directs the running of the Board.  The Board is supplied in advance of its meetings with
appropriate financial, operational and other information to enable the meetings to be effective. The Chief Executive's
responsibilities focus on managing the Group and implementing board strategy and policy.   The Non-executive Directors
have particular responsibility for the scrutiny of management performance, the review of financial information and the
constructive challenge and development of strategy.  In addition, the Non-executive Directors have particular responsibility
for the Board committees described below.
The Chairman is responsible for the process to ensure that directors keep their skills and knowledge up to date and to encourage
their professional development. The Company ensures that adequate time and financial resources are available for directors to
attend appropriate training. The Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary or, if required, independent professional
advice at the Company's expense to be informed on all governance and other matters of importance to their board responsibilities. 
The Board has reserved specific responsibilities to itself including:  setting strategy and approving annual budgets; reviewing
financial and operational performance; approving policies for controls and risk management; approving major capital
expenditure, disposals and major business development;  reviewing the health & safety policy and performance of the Group;
approving patent abandonment; approving appointments to the Board and the Company Secretary; approving policies relating
to directors' remuneration and the severance of directors' contracts; and the processes to ensure that an appropriate and
constructive dialogue takes place with shareholders.
Torotrak Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 19
Corporate Governance Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to three committees.  Each committee operates within defined terms of
reference set by the Board which are available on request from the Company Secretary.  Membership of the committees is
detailed on pages 14 to 15.
The remit of the Intellectual Property Committee, which had been set up in previous years to consider Intellectual Property
matters, has been absorbed back into the main business of the Board.  However the previous Chairman of that Committee,
David MacKay, continues to assist the executive directors and management in the implementation and evolution of patenting
strategy and best practice.
The Audit Committee (AC) is chaired by David MacKay who accepted this position following the appointment of John Grant
as Chairman, who was previously the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Whilst the Smith guidance incorporated into the
Combined Code suggests that the Chairman should not be a member of the Audit Committee, the Board has taken the view
that John Grant's continued membership since becoming Chairman is appropriate on the basis of continuity, his significant
financial experience and to ensure that there is a quorum in the event of one member being absent.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and considers all matters relating to financial controls and reporting,
internal and external audits, risk management policy and procedures, the scope and results of the audits, the independence
and objectivity of the auditors and the consideration paid to them.  In particular, the Committee meets to review the interim
and preliminary announcements and Annual Report and Financial Statements and makes recommendations to the Board
which then has responsibility for approval.
The Group does not normally award consulting work to the auditors other than in the area of tax consulting and compliance,
where they are best suited to carry out such work. The Committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence
and is satisfied that there are not any circumstances where the auditors' objectivity and independence is compromised.  
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, and Financial Controller attend the committee meetings as required, as do
the  external auditors who meet with the committee at least twice every year.  The external auditors also have the opportunity
to meet with the committee without the executive directors being present.
The Remuneration Committee (RC) is chaired by Nick Barter.  The Committee determines the policy for remuneration for
the Chairman, executive directors and directors of subsidiaries and makes recommendations to the Board having taken
independent advice where required and obtained relevant data in order to undertake comparator analysis.  The remuneration
of non-executive directors is reviewed by the executive directors of the Board with guidance from the Chairman. 
The remuneration report, on pages 23 to 26, gives further details on the remuneration of directors.  
Torotrak Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 20
Corporate Governance cont... The Nominations Committee (NC) is chaired by John Grant and reviews proposals for the appointment of executive and
non-executive directors or the extension of existing appointments and makes recommendations for approval by the Board. 
John Grant's appointment as Chairman during the year followed a process led by David MacKay who met with the Board with
the exclusion of David Wallis and John Grant.  In view of the Group's stage of development and, in the Board's view, his significant
and appropriate level of experience, it was decided that an external search process was not appropriate.
Board Effectiveness
The Board's evaluation of the individual performance of its directors, as well as the effectiveness of the Board as a whole,
follows a process of a confidential questionnaire to each of the directors.  This is supplemented by individual meetings with
the Chairman where development actions may be discussed.  The results are fed back individually and to the Board or
Nominations Committee as appropriate.  In addition, the performance of executive directors is appraised according to agreed
objectives and performance in relation to annual budgets and the business plan.  The Chief Executive's performance is
appraised by the Chairman and other executives are appraised by the Chief Executive.
The Board met 9 times during the year with attendance at the main board meetings and sub committees as follows:
Board AC RC NC
John Grant 9/9 3/3 5/5 2/2
Dick Elsy 9/9 - - -
Rebecca Joyce 7/9 - - -
James Batchelor 9/9 - - -
Nick Barter 9/9 3/3 5/5 2/2
David MacKay 8/9 3/3 5/5 2/2
David Wallis (to retirement) 3/3 - - -
David Price (to retirement) 3/3 - - -
Rebecca Joyce's attendance at meetings has been impacted by her illness since January 2006.  As reported on page 3,
Jeremy Deering was appointed as interim Finance Director in March 2006 to ensure appropriate support to the Board and the
smooth running of the Group's financial procedures and requirements.
Torotrak Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 21 Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and meets annually to formally review the
effectiveness of such controls. The control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, various risks of failure to
achieve the Company and Group's objectives and therefore are only able to provide reasonable and not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
There is a comprehensive system of financial reporting with monthly performance reports presented to the Board. The annual
budget and the business plan, upon which the budget is based, is reviewed and approved by the Board.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces, which has been
in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.  This process is regularly reviewed
by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.  
Major commercial, technological and financial risks are formally assessed during the annual business planning process, which
normally takes place in the last quarter of the financial year. The Board monitors exposure to key business risks and progress
towards achieving strategic aims.  
The Executive Committee, which consists of the executive directors and senior management of subsidiaries, meets regularly to
monitor and control operations. Performance is reviewed, risks & opportunities identified, financial and other implications
assessed and corrective actions agreed as necessary.  
Given the Group's scale of operations and centralisation of activities, the Board does not consider it necessary to have
a dedicated internal audit function.  Instead it has chosen to date to contract out such activities as necessary on a project
by project basis. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director are the principal points of contact for shareholders.  David MacKay has been
nominated as Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders where normal channels of communication may not
be appropriate. The Company gives high priority to communications with shareholders by means of an active investor relations
programme, which includes a rolling programme of meetings with institutions and private investor intermediaries.
All shareholders are welcomed to the Company's annual general meeting which the Board considers to be an important forum
for investor communication, notice of which is contained in a separate document being posted to shareholders with the Annual
Report.  In particular, the meeting provides an opportunity for investors to meet with the Board and chairmen of the committees.
Torotrak Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 22
Corporate Governance cont...