 Torotrak plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 / 2011
www.torotrak.com
36
Governance
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year 
under review with the main principles set out in section 1 of the revised Combined Code on corporate governance as amended and 

Exception Explanation
Chairman sits on audit committee he retired from the Company. His financial qualifications and 


as Chairman, his role also encompasses chairmanship of 
the audit committee. With the reduced size of the Board, 
this is considered to be a pragmatic solution commensurate 
with Torotrak's stage of development and the scale of its 
financial risks





representation on the Board

who can adequately challenge and provide guidance to the 

Reductions in cost at Board level are required to provide 
leadership in terms of more general organisational cost 
reduction and to demonstrate greater effectiveness
Board meetings are attended by appropriate members of senior 
management for the technical and business review, thereby 
enhancing communication and transparency and permitting the 



the date of grant. The option terms have no formal restrictions 


governance that it aims to achieve, the Company, in its search 
for a new chairman, sought to attract a high-calibre individual 
with an entrepreneurial background and broad, high quality 

Committee concluded that an initial equity incentive would be 
appropriate provided that appropriate performance targets were 
set for vesting and that the grant was matched by a personal 
investment in the form of the purchase of the same number of 
shares over which options are granted. This helps to align the 
Chairman's interests with those of other shareholders.
These share options are a one-off grant and have no relationship 
to the Long Term Performance Share Plan, which provides for 

if not approved at the 2011 AGM


2010. Copies of both editions are publicly available on the website of the FRC at www.frc.org.uk. Overview AGM & Shareholders Financial Information Operational Review Business Review
Torotrak plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 / 2011
37
www.torotrak.com
Governance
Corporate Governance continued
The Board and its composition



directors.

in character and judgement and to be free from any business or other relationship or circumstance that could impact on such 
 grant and he will not participate in any of the ongoing employee incentive schemes. The Company's Articles of Association require that 
all directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after appointment and thereafter at least 
once every three years.
The Board structure creates a balance such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate decision-making. The roles 
 meetings and directs the running of the Board. The Board is supplied in advance of its meetings with appropriate financial, operational 


management performance, the review of financial information and the constructive challenge and development of strategy; in addition, 

The Chairman is responsible for the process to ensure that directors keep their skills and knowledge up to date and to encourage 
their professional development. The Company ensures that adequate time and financial resources are available for directors to attend 
appropriate training and that newly appointed directors receive a tailored induction programme appropriate to their needs. The directors 

on all governance and other matters of importance to their Board responsibilities.
The Board has reserved specific responsibilities to itself including: setting strategy and approving annual budgets; reviewing financial 

and major business development; reviewing the health & safety policy and performance of the Group; approving patent abandonment; 
approving appointments to the Board and the position of Company Secretary; approving policies relating to directors' remuneration 
and the severance of directors' contracts; and the processes to ensure that an appropriate and constructive dialogue takes place with 
shareholders.

financial limits which relate to annually approved budgets, financial forecasts and the approved business plan.
Appointment of Directors and Articles of Association
The Articles of Association permit the directors to appoint any person to be a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director, 
but so that the total number of directors shall not be less than three. Any director appointed in this way is required to be reappointed at the 

The Articles of Association provide a number of circumstances whereby a director may be removed from office, including being 

The Articles of Association or amendments thereto are approved by special resolution at Annual General Meeting unless otherwise 
amended through the operation of law.
Board committees
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to three committees. Each committee operates within defined terms of reference set 

Audit Committee and auditors' independence
The Audit Committee was chaired during the year by David MacKay. Following his resignation on 31 March 2011, the Chairman took 
over as Chairman of the Audit Committee. This is a departure from the guidance incorporated into the Combined Code, for the reasons 

Governance Torotrak plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 / 2011
www.torotrak.com
38
Governance
Corporate Governance continued
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year prior to the publication of the half-year and full-year results and at other times as 
the Chairman of the Committee shall require. The Committee considers all matters relating to financial controls and reporting, internal 

the auditors and the consideration paid to them. The Committee also is responsible for the selection of auditors, subject to their re-
appointment at annual general meetings. The Board has ultimate responsibility for approval.

where they are best suited to carry out such work. However, the Group considers awarding other advisory services to the firm of 
auditors in circumstances where there is demonstrable independence from their role of auditors and where best value for the Group 

circumstances where the auditors' objectivity and independence is compromised.



The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the evaluation of auditors' performance and the frequency and process for seeking 

time period for audit tenders is established by the Audit Committee, although performance and suitability is kept under review on an 

performance. 
Remuneration Committee

directors and directors of subsidiaries and makes recommendations to the Board having taken independent advice where required 


Remuneration Report, on pages 40 to 47, gives further details on the remuneration of directors.
Nominations Committee
 Board effectiveness
The Board's evaluation of the individual performance of its directors, as well as the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, follows a 
process of confidential questionnaires to be completed by each of the directors. These are supplemented by individual meetings with 
the Chairman where results and development actions may be discussed. The results are fed back individually and to the Board or 



The Board met eleven times during the year with attendance at the main Board meetings and sub committees as follows:
Board Audit Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations
Committee
 11/11 2/2 1/1
Dick Elsy 11/11 - - -
 11/11 - - -
 10/11 - - -
Nick Barter 11/11 2/2 10/10 1/1
David MacKay 11/11 2/2 10/10 1/1 Overview AGM & Shareholders Financial Information Operational Review Business Review
Torotrak plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 / 2011
39
www.torotrak.com
Governance
Corporate Governance continued
Risk management and internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and meets annually to formally review the effectiveness 
of such controls. The control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, various risks of failure to achieve the Company 
and Group's objectives and therefore are only able to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement 
or loss.
There is a comprehensive system of financial reporting with monthly performance reports presented to the Board. The annual budget 
and the business plan, upon which the budget is based, is reviewed and approved by the Board.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces, which has been in place 
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements. Risk management and opportunity cost mitigation 
is a central part of regular board review and assessment.
Major commercial, technological and financial risks are formally assessed during the annual business planning process, which normally 

strategic aims.

operations. Business performance is reviewed, risks and opportunities identified, financial and other implications assessed and 
corrective actions agreed as necessary.
Given the Group's scale of operations and centralisation of activities, the Board does not consider it necessary to have a dedicated 

contract out such additional activities as may be appropriate from time to time.
Relations with shareholders


The Company gives high priority to communications with shareholders by means of an active investor relations programme, which 
includes a rolling programme of meetings with institutions, private investor intermediaries and the Torotrak Private Shareholders' 
Association. A section of the Company's website is dedicated to investors. 
The Board is made aware of the views of major and other shareholders through reports and feedback made available at Board 
meetings following meetings with investors. The Board also reviews and seeks to understand the reasons for any substantial 
movements in the shareholder register, through appropriate analysis supplied at Board meetings.
All shareholders are welcomed at the Company's Annual General Meeting, which the Board considers to be an important forum for 

the meeting provides an opportunity for investors to meet with the Board and chairmen of the committees.
Joint Venture
The statements above refer to Torotrak plc and the subsidiaries under its control.
The Group's interest in a joint venture company is managed via a separate Board that consists of an equal number of Torotrak 
appointed directors to the directors appointed by Torotrak's joint venture partner. The Group seeks to implement, through this separate 
Board, appropriate risk management and controls, including the approval and setting of budgets and business plans, authority limits 
and regular financial reporting. Key decisions that would, if the joint venture company was a 100% subsidiary, require Torotrak plc 
Board approval, are referred to the Torotrak Board for approval prior to commitments being agreed at joint venture board meetings. 


Governance