 AVESCO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007
32
This corporate governance report sets out how the principles identified in the Combined Code have been applied by the Company in the period. Although, as
an AIM listed company, the Company is not required to comply with the Combined Code, the Directors regard compliance as a benchmark of best practice,
which they wish to follow wherever relevant and not disproportionate having regard to the size of the Group.
Statement of compliance
The Board considers that the Company has complied substantially with the provisions of the Combined Code during the period and subsequently until the date
of this report.
The Board
The Board comprises the Directors listed on page 26. On 17 May 2007, Mr Andrews, Mr Blackall, Mr Christmas, Mr Gibbins, Mr Martin and Mr Nicholson, who
were each directors of Avesco plc, were appointed to the Board and Mr Stirling resigned as a Director. On the same date, Mr Conn was appointed as Company
Secretary in place of Watlington Securities Limited.
There is a non-executive Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer and a senior independent Director. Mr Gibbins, who is the Chairman, and Mr Blackall, who is the
senior independent Director, are both considered to be independent of management. Mr Murray and Mr Maxwell, who are also non-executive Directors, are
not considered to be independent in view of their previous involvement in an executive capacity with the Group.
The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times each year, in addition to which meetings will also be convened on an ad hoc basis if there is urgent or
delegated business which cannot wait until the next scheduled meeting of the full Board. The following table sets out details of the number of meetings of the
Board (excluding ad hoc meetings) and of the audit and remuneration committees during the year and the attendance at those meetings:
Director Board Audit Remuneration
Total Number of meetings 42 3
IP Martin * 2- -
GP Andrews * 2- -
JL Christmas * 2- -
DJ Nicholson * 2- -
MES Gibbins * 11 3
LNC Blackall * 22 3
CA Maxwell 42 3
RA Murray 3- 3
* Since appointment on 17 May 2007.
The Board considers the overall strategic direction, development and control of the Group and reviews the financial and operational performance. Various
major decisions require Board approval, including the approval of the annual budget, larger capital expenditure proposals, acquisitions and disposals. Board
papers, which are sent out in advance of each meeting, include a set agenda although further subjects are added for discussion as the need arises.
The executive Directors meet formally as a management team, usually on a monthly basis. These executive management meetings consider and review the
operational and financial management and performance of the Group, receive reports from the key managers in respect of their respective areas of
responsibility, discuss significant issues and determine any appropriate action to be taken.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive have clearly established responsibilities although these have not been defined in writing. In addition to chairing the Board
and the audit and remuneration committees, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues
reserved to it. The Chairman consults with the non executive Directors on corporate governance issues, communicates the views of the shareholders to the
Board and ensures a constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive members of the Board. The Chief Executive has final executive
responsibility to the Board for the success of the Group.
The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there is a written procedure for obtaining independent legal advice at the
Company's expense.
The non-executive directors review the performance of the executive Directors, including the Chairman. No formal performance evaluation of the non-executive
Directors or of the Board committees has been conducted.
On appointment, new Directors take part in an induction programme when they receive information about the Group, the role of the Board and the Board
committees, the Company's corporate governance practices and procedures, and the latest financial information about the Group. They are also advised of
their legal duties as a director of a public company. Visits are arranged to Group locations together with meetings with senior executives.
The articles of association of the Company require Directors to submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and
then every three years.
Audit committee
The audit committee was appointed on 17 May 2007 and now comprises Mr Gibbins, Mr Blackall and Mr Maxwell. Mr Gibbins is the current chairman of the
audit committee. Mr Murray was a member of the audit committee from 17 May 2007 to 22 June 2007, when he stepped down.
The audit committee reviews the Group's annual report, financial statements, interim statement and preliminary announcements before recommending their
approval to the Board. This process involves meeting with the external auditors to discuss issues relating to the audit and financial control of the Group. The
audit committee also reviews the Company's internal financial controls and risk management systems, the scope of the audit and the independence and
objectivity of the auditors. The auditors have direct access, should they so require, to the chairman of the audit committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AVESCO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007
33
Nomination committee
The Company does not have a nomination committee. Any appointments to the Board would be considered by the Board as a whole.
In considering the appointment of a new Director, the Board considers and defines the characteristics, qualities, skills and experience that it considers would
complement the overall balance and composition of the Board. The committee may appoint an external consultant to help in the identification and recruitment
of an individual who satisfies the committee's criteria, unless the Board is already able to identify an appropriate individual.
Directors' indemnities
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal proceedings taken against them in
that capacity and in respect of any damages resulting from those proceedings. The insurance does not provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently
or dishonestly.
The Company has executed a deed providing a limited indemnity to the Directors of the Company in respect of the costs of defending claims against them and
third party liabilities. A copy of the deed of indemnity is available for inspection at the Company's registered office during normal working hours and will also be
available for inspection at the Company's Annual General Meeting.
Internal control
The Directors have overall responsibility for internal control within the Group. The effectiveness of the Group's internal control system has been reviewed by the
Directors. The internal control system provides an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company. The internal
control system, which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report, is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The controls in place include Group policies and procedures, which are operated in all subsidiaries and which define levels of authority and procedures for
regular control and management reporting.
The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting covering profits, assets, liabilities, cash flow and capital expenditure. The systems
include regular monitoring of cash, monthly reporting of financial results, reviews of forecasts and comparisons with budgets. Budgets and business plans are
prepared annually by all operations and reviewed by management and the Board. Regular management meetings are held to monitor performance against
budgets, progress in implementing planned changes and the operational efficiency of the businesses.
Operational risks are identified and assessed by management with the identification and monitoring of significant risks being reported to the Board. In addition
to those financial and commercial risks associated with the Group's services, the nature of the services businesses dictates that particular emphasis is given to
health and safety. The Group employs a full-time health and safety manager and regular training programmes are provided for operational staff.
The Directors have considered the need for an internal audit function but believe that the size of the Group at present does not justify a dedicated internal audit
function. However, Avesco Group finance staff make regular visits to all the operations and perform many of those risk management tasks normally associated
with an internal audit function. The Directors review the decision not to have an internal audit function from time to time, in particular, having regard to material
changes in circumstances.
Relations with shareholders
The Board makes considerable efforts to establish relationships with institutions and shareholders and to meet and communicate with them on a regular basis.
Directors make institutional presentations at the time that the interim and full year results are announced. If so requested, the non-executive Directors (including
the senior independent non-executive Director) are available to attend meetings with major shareholders. The Board is keen to communicate with private
investors and welcomes the opportunity to meet with them at the Annual General Meeting. The Company counts all proxy votes lodged at general meetings of
the Company and indicates the number of proxy votes on each resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Information regarding the Group may be viewed on the Company's website at www.avesco.com.
By order of the Board
Nicholas Conn
Company Secretary
20 December 2007