 27
Tottenham Hotspur plc Annual Report 2007 tottenhamhotspur.com
Compliance with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice as appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority (the Combined Code ).
Introduction
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles of good governance and complied 
with the provisions set out in section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code (the Code ). Although there is no requirement for an 
AIM quoted company to comply with the Code, the Directors of Tottenham Hotspur plc (the Company ) have in recent years adopted 
it as best practice wherever practical and applicable to the size and operation of the Company. However in the year to 30 June 2007, 
the Company has not been able to comply with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code for part of the year primarily because 
until 13 December 2006 there was only one Non-Executive Director, Mervyn Davies. Sir Keith Mills was appointed a Non-Executive on 
13 December 2006. As a result the Company has not been able to comply with Principles A.3, B.2 and C.3 for part of the year which 
recommend that the Board should include a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and that the Remuneration and Audit 
Committees should comprise of at least two independent Non-Executives.
There are currently two Executive Directors (Daniel Levy and Matthew Collecott); and the Board considers that it is adequate for 
two Executive Directors to deal with the management of a company of this size within this industry and that the independent 
Non-Executive Directors (Mervyn Davies and Sir Keith Mills) have the ability and authority to ensure the current make up of the Board 
is appropriate for the Group and its shareholders.
There are three further Principles that the Company does not currently comply with nor does the Board envisage it will comply with in 
the next year.
1  Principle A.2 states that there should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the 
Board and the executive responsibility for the running of the Company's business. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are 
currently combined. As Chairman and Chief Executive, Daniel Levy is responsible for running both the Board and the Group's business. 
In the Board's view the independent Non-Executive Directors have the ability and authority to ensure the Group and its shareholders 
are not disadvantaged by this combination of roles.
2  Principle A.4 states that there should be a nomination committee which should lead the process for Board appointments and make 
recommendations to the Board. The Board considers that a nomination committee is not appropriate due to the relatively small size 
of the Board.
3  Principle A.6 states that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees and individual Directors. The Board does not feel it necessary to operate a formal Board evaluation policy because, due 
to the frequency with which the Board meets (as noted below), any issues concerning the performance of an individual Director 
would be promptly identified and, if necessary, rectified.
Furthermore, Provision A.3 states that the Board should state its reasons if it determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding 
the existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, including if the Director has had a 
material business relationship with the Company as a senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Company. 
As outlined in note 28, the Group invoiced Standard Chartered PLC, of which Mervyn Davies was Chief Executive, a total of  101,078 
during the year for corporate hospitality services. The Board consider that Mervyn Davies remains independent as the services provided 
were not of a material nature to Standard Chartered PLC as it was corporate hospitality sales with no ongoing obligations nor 
commitments and was negotiated at arm's length.
The Board and its Directors
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors are named above. Further details about the Directors are contained within  The Club' 
section of the Club's website www.tottenhamhotspur.com.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of a year and their service contracts provide for a notice period of three 
months. They are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, which could materially interfere with 
the exercise of their independent judgement. All Directors are subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment. The Articles of Association also provide for one-third of the Board to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board met formally on five occasions during the year to discuss matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board, which have 
been separately defined. In addition the Board meets informally on many occasions throughout the year when attending both home 
and away Tottenham Hotspur fixtures. 
The Board is responsible for the development of commercial strategy, monitoring and approval of major business matters and the approval 
of the financial statements. Prior to each meeting, the Board is furnished with timely financial and non-financial information in a form 
and quality for it to discharge its duties.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual and Interim Reports and for ensuring that they present a balanced 
assessment of the Group's position lies with the Board.
Corporate governance
_1_TH_back_ar07.indd   4 25/10/2007   10:08:22 28
Tottenham Hotspur plc Annual Report 2007 tottenhamhotspur.com
The Board and its Directors continued
The Board has established a number of committees and delegates the day-to-day responsibility of managing the Group to the 
Executive Directors. There are two principal committees of the Board, the Audit and the Remuneration Committees, both of which 
have defined terms of reference and duties.
The specific terms of reference for all of the Committees may be obtained from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office. The terms 
and conditions on which Non-Executive Directors are appointed may also be obtained from the Company's Registered Office.
The Company Secretary attends all of the Board and Committee meetings and is responsible for the preparation and distribution 
of all agenda, minutes and related Board and Committee papers.
A procedure has been established by which Directors are able to take independent professional advice and obtain the appropriate 
training, deemed necessary in the pursuance of their duties, at the expense of the Company.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee (Chairman: E M Davies), which met twice during the year, has responsibility for, among other things, reviewing 
the scope and results of the audit, the overview of the Annual Report, considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting 
standards, the AIM rules of The London Stock Exchange, for advising the Board on the requirement to maintain an effective system 
of internal control and for reviewing the arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee meets the external auditors independently from the Executive Directors and reviews matters brought to its attention 
by the external auditors. The Committee also reviews the objectivity, approach and cost effectiveness of both their audit and non-audit 
services. In accordance with best practice, the external auditors have confirmed their audit independence in writing to the Committee.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 
Extraordinary General Meeting. This recommendation has been accepted and will be proposed to the shareholders.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (Chairman: E M Davies), which met twice during the year, has responsibility for making recommendations 
to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's policy on remuneration and the individual remuneration packages 
for the Executive Directors, including any compensation payments. Remuneration packages are established when the Directors 
are appointed.
The Executive Directors may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee but are not included in discussions concerning their 
own remuneration package.
A full report on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 30 and 31.
Internal control
The Board complies with the Combined Code recommendations and revised guidance on internal control and maintains a sound 
system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and Company assets.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control. A process of identifying, evaluation and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group was in place from the start of the year and to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and which is in 
accordance with Turnbull guidance. Any system of controls can, however, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement and loss.
The key features of the financial controls of the Group, which have been in place throughout the year ended 30 June 2007 and up 
to the date of approval of this Annual Report, include a comprehensive system of financial reporting, budgeting and forecasting, and 
clearly communicated accounting policies and procedures. Financial control is monitored centrally and authorisation of expenditure 
is closely monitored by the Executive Directors. The Executive Directors receive selected information daily. Profit and loss account, 
balance sheet and cash flow information is prepared each month and reviewed by relevant Executives. The Board is furnished with 
regular financial information. The public release of the Annual and Interim Reports is not made until it has been reviewed by the Board.
In addition to financial controls, there is an established whistle blowing  procedure in place where employees may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. Working groups have also been 
established involving management, external consultants and operational staff at all levels. Cross group meetings take place to ensure 
that the risks arising are reviewed, communicated and clearly understood and steps have been taken to ensure the controls in place 
mitigate, minimise or prevent their eventuality. The Executive Directors discuss key issues at Board meetings. The Board feels that this 
allows it to review the effectiveness of internal controls and is sufficient to ensure that key risks are identified in a timely manner, 
evaluated by the correct level of management, and mitigated, where possible, through a system of control measures and reported 
upon satisfactorily. Given the Group's size the Board does not consider that it would be appropriate to have its own internal audit 
function at present.
Corporate governance continued
_1_TH_back_ar07.indd   5 25/10/2007   10:08:22