 Corporate governance
33
The Combined Code
Tribal Group plc is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the board is accountable to
the company's shareholders.
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 the Group has complied fully with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The board is reviewing the implications of both the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and of
the Smith report on audit committees, the recommendations of which will be incorporated into the Combined Code for
Corporate Governance later in 2003.
Application of the Principles of Good Governance
The company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the
Code of Best Practice as reported above. Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and, in
connection with directors' remuneration, in the remuneration report.
Board of Directors 
During the year to 31 March 2003, the board comprised a non-executive Chairman, two additional non-executive directors and
three executive directors. All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent. Their biographical details, which
appear on page 30, demonstrate the range of experience and independent judgement they each bring to bear on board matters.
The board meets regularly during the year to exercise full and effective control over the Group. The board is responsible for
overall strategy and management of performance, for acquisitions, capital expenditure and for safeguarding the Group's assets.
The actual results of the Group and a summary of operating company performance are reported to all members of the board
each month. Members of the board meet formally with subsidiary management monthly to review business performance and to
discuss operational and strategic issues. Key points from these meetings are discussed at Group board meetings.
A procedure exists for the board of directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if
necessary, at the Company's expense. All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is
responsible to the board for ensuring agreed procedures, rules and regulations are observed.
On appointment, and throughout their tenure, directors receive appropriate training.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined. Miles Hunt is the senior independent director.
Information is provided to the board on a timely basis. In advance of each board meeting, directors receive a board pack
including detailed monthly management accounts, proposed acquisitions and major capital expenditure requests.
All directors are appointed by the board as a whole following recommendations from the Nomination Committee and each
director submits himself for re-election at least every three years. None of the executive directors has a service contract greater
than twelve months.
Board Committees
The board has established three committees, each of which operates within defined terms of reference. They are an Audit
Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The members of each committee are the three
independent non-executive directors with David Telling as Chairman of all three committees. David Telling will be available to
answer questions at the Annual General Meeting. The Chief Executive is an additional member of the Nomination Committee.
The Group Finance Director attends Audit Committee meetings.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year. It monitors the effectiveness of internal financial controls and considers
matters relating to accounting, financial reporting, accounting policies and the external audit. To do this, it receives and considers
written and oral reports from company officers, the Group Finance Director and the auditors. Procedures to correct weaknesses
identified in these reports are put in place by the Group Finance Director and reviewed at subsequent meetings. The Audit
Committee invites the auditors to hold discussions with the Committee without the Group Finance Director present at least once
a year. The Audit Committee considers annually the need for an internal audit function. It currently believes that the Group is not
of sufficient size or complexity to obtain value from such a function at this stage. The Committee also reviews the cost
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the nature of the non-audit services provided by them.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee deals with appointments to the board, monitors potential conflicts of interest and reviews annually
the independence of the non-executive directors. The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the
board having regard to the balance and structure of the board. Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets annually to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and senior
management and their performance. The remuneration report is set out on pages 35 to 38.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control
An initial assessment process was carried out specifically for the move to a full listing. Subsequently, the directors have
undertaken to review, annually, the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls using a common strategic risk
framework developed from this process.
The Group's assessment includes a review of the major financial and non-financial risks to the business and the corresponding
internal controls. The output is continuously reviewed by the executive directors to further enhance the internal control and 
risk management culture of the Group throughout its subsidiaries. Clear responsibilities have been allocated for key risk areas
such as acquisitions, treasury, capital expenditure, insurance and information technology. Other risks fall within the scope of 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees as appropriate. No potential issues warranting disclosure in the accounts
have been identified. 
The executive directors will review these action plans on a regular basis to ensure that the plans for improvement are being
implemented and that the outputs of the strategic risk assessments remain relevant to the Group. A review will be carried out
and an action plan prepared for all new acquisitions as part of the integration process. The action plans and their ongoing review
form a process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group. Such a process has been in place for the year
under review and up to the date of approval of the audited financial statements and is in accordance with Turnbull guidance.
Review of effectiveness of internal control
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. In establishing and reviewing the
system of internal control, the directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and
the costs of control. It follows that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
the risk of material misstatement or loss.
In addition to the process of assessment of internal control and the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal financial control by
the Audit Committee, explained above, the process used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal
controls includes the following:
Control environment The directors are committed to maintaining a control-conscious culture across the Group whilst allowing
subsidiary companies sufficient autonomy to manage and develop their businesses. This is communicated to all employees by
way of regular management briefings, training and mentoring. An organisational structure is in place within which the business
can be planned, controlled and monitored. This structure includes appropriate delegation of authority, physical controls and
procedures such as authorisation limits and segregation of duties. The operating companies' managing directors regularly review
their responsibilities and compliance with the Group's policies and procedures.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the board based on an annual budget prepared in
line with the Group's strategic plan and formally adopted by the board, quarterly rolling forecasts and monthly reporting of
financial and operating results. Key operational performance indicators including weekly cash flow forecasts and daily cash
balances are continuously monitored by the executive and subsidiary directors. 
Group procedures manual Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the Group procedures
manual, which sets out delegation of authority and authorisation levels and other control procedures, together with accounting
and reporting procedures. The manual is updated regularly.
Shareholder relations
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are the Group's principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers,
the press and other interested parties. Briefing meetings are held with analysts and institutional shareholders, usually following
the interim and final results announcements, to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and complete view of
the Group's performance and the issues faced by the business. The Group reports formally to all shareholders twice a year when
its half year and full year results are announced. Other information is available on the Group's website. The Annual General
Meeting is attended by all directors and private investors are encouraged to participate in the meeting.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the directors continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate governance continued
34