 CSR
c o mmu n it y
int er na l s t a k eho l der
en v ir o n men t
ex t er n a l s t a k eho l der
Corporate responsibility
Ext Er nal Stak EholdErS
maintaining our dedication to be honest and fair in our relationships 
with our customers and suppliers is fundamental to how we build 
trusted relationships and increase our reputation as an organisation 
with high ethical practices.
We have a clear corporate policy against accepting payment 
or bribes. We are 100% committed to conducting our business 
with honesty and integrity. We expect all staff, suppliers and 
customers to share these high standards of ethical behaviour 
and foster a culture of openness and accountability.
our anti piracy and compliance team have made further steps to 
protect our software and our customer's interest by continuing to 
seek out illegal use of aveva software, and enforcing compliance 
of our terms and conditions.
dedicated to meeting our customer's needs, we continue to 
develop the skills within our training and Product support teams 
to provide a high level of customer service to our customers and 
ensure they are using their AVEVA products to maximum benefit.
Following the csr review that took place over the last year, 
it was recommended that we increase the visibility of the 
practices supporting our activities in this field. As a result, 
we have moved the csr web page on our external website 
and internal portal to a location of greater prominence and 
updated our policies and procedures.
Int Er nal Stak EholdErS
We now have over 1,300 colleagues globally, an increase of nearly 
300 people since last year's reporting. this number has increased 
through organic growth and by two corporate acquisitions. despite 
this significant growth, we continue to maintain our focus on our 
internal stakeholders, our people.
our processes to recruit, retain, educate and motivate staff are 
proving to be a continued success with high retention rates and 
development programme participation.
in June 2012 aveva celebrated its 45th anniversary. We attribute 
reaching this milestone to the talent and success of our people 
and celebrated this achievement with the entire aveva team 
throughout each of our 48 offices. 
Communication
the introduction of the aveva internal communications team 
was announced in last year's annual report and they have 
created a multi phase communication plan that has already 
delivered major improvements in the effectiveness of our 
communication programmes.
the biggest area for focus this year is the development of 
our new intranet, named  onespace'. the name was selected 
through an internal competition inviting colleagues to submit their 
proposals. the onespace name represents all of our information 
that colleagues will ever need in one place, in onespace.
onespace has allowed us to become much more interactive in 
how we communicate with our colleagues, with capabilities that 
enable the communication team to share news items in a timelier 
manner. onespace has also provided an opportunity to become 
much more social through functions such as an executive blog 
and integration with our twitter and flickr accounts. 
As a global organisation, we strive to be socially responsible and to operate 
with the highest ethical standards. We look to achieve these objectives through 
the cultivation of positive, long term working relationships with our colleagues, 
partners and communities across all areas of our business.
Last year's annual report segmented our CSR activities into four 
distinct areas: External Stakeholders, Internal Stakeholders, the 
Environment and our Community. Over the last year this format has 
provided a framework for how we have developed our corporate 
responsibility practices. As we move into the next fiscal year it will 
remain pivotal in how we engage with our colleagues and 
external stakeholders.
Reporting on each of the four areas, this section of the report 
emphasises our continued efforts to operate ethically and 
responsibly in all areas of the business and community.
our CSr FraMEWork For thE F uturE
Our mission for the coming financial year is to develop 
our CSR practices further by providing a global structure 
to our activities. This will include:
 z
Engaging globally with colleagues on all 
aspects of CSR
 z
Introduce a global strategy and purpose  
to our CSR activity
 z
Creating a central location for colleagues 
to access information on CSR
 z
Sharing local CSR practices globally
 z
Continual Progression with our CSR practices
2013/14 CSr MISSIon Stat EMEnt
AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 28
WWW.AVEVA.COM
directors' report development 
o ur four major development programmes continue to attract 
prospective and current employees:
 B t he 2013 graduate recruitment campaign saw over 
500 applicants apply.
 B t he  Grads & s tars' development programme, which opened 
the graduate personal development scheme to existing 
colleagues had a record number of  s tars' join this year.
 B due to the success of avev a's management development 
programme, some of the modules are now being offered 
as independent  workshop' development sessions.
 B into its second year , the a dvanced l eadership Programme is proving 
to be a success with the identification of future AVEVA leaders.
t he Job l evel structure introduced in 2011 is now fully embedded 
into our internal processes and is enhancing our performance 
management process by comparing individual and organisational 
training needs against career development opportunities.
Benefits 
We continue to be competitive with our benefits package and have 
a stringent process to review each individual's financial rewards 
through a global annual review. in January 2013, we launched 
our global Recognition Programme, which supports our financial 
reward practices by encouraging a culture of both informal and formal 
recognition. t hrough this programme colleagues are encouraged 
to give feedback, thanks and congratulations on a job well done 
to anyone within that organisation that they choose.
Wellness
o ur dedication to employee wellbeing was covered under the 
benefits section last year. This year, however, we feel the steps 
we have made in this field warrant a section to showcase our wellness 
initiatives. t he introduction of wellness programmes has extended 
to more offices where we offer activities such as meditation, health 
checks and free fruit to all employees. in may 2012 we invested 
in the Global corporate challenge, a health and well being initiative 
which encourages colleagues to form teams and get active! 
AVEVA had 343 colleagues take part in the 16 week fitness challenge. 
a s an organisation we did fantastically well and were recognised 
as the t op s cience and t echnology organisation across the globe, 
by collectively covering over 176,000 miles.
Env Iron MEnt
With no manufacturing facilities, aveva is classed as a  low impact' 
environmental organisation, with the majority of software 
delivered electronically to our customers.
As a global organisation operating in over 40 offices, we faced 
the challenge of reducing our travel and impact on the environment. 
We are tackling this by defining a travel target reduction goal each 
year and creating strategies to achieve this target. o ur investment 
in video conferencing over the last year has also enabled us to make 
a positive reduction in the amount of international and domestic 
travel, and we intend to make further steps in this area by providing 
this technology to more of our offices.
CoMMun Ity
We are committed to the development of our global and local 
communities, and continually extend our involvement in educational 
partnerships and charitable giving.
Education partnerships
t he aveva a cademic initiative is a strategic investment that provides 
benefits to AVEVA, Universities, and the broader engineering discipline.
t he three key objectives for the aveva a cademic initiative are:
 B Work with universities to promote the use of avev a products 
during under and post graduate studies by providing both 
software and training support;
 B Work with government agencies to re skill engineers for employment 
in other disciplines by providing free training courses; and
 B Work with engineering bodies to encourage graduates to pursue 
careers in engineering.
t his year we have also increased our involvement with young 
enterprise which is a business and enterprise educational charity. 
aveva 's involvement consists of colleagues volunteering to be 
Business a dvisors or c oaches to students studying for a range 
of qualifications, providing insight into the commercial world 
for these young people.
Charitable giving
We continue to sponsor a range of charities, with aveva donating 
over  50,000 in charitable contributions last year, including making 
considerable donations to the o utward Bound t rust and macmillan 
c ancer s upport. 
o ur colleagues continue to inspire avev a with their individual 
and team commitment to events such as the c ambridge dragon 
Boat Festival and c hariots of Fire supporting east a nglia c hildren's 
hospice as was as charitable activities around the world.
in o ctober 2012, avev a entered into Byte n ight, an it i ndustry 
charity event raising money for a ction for c hildren. For this event 
aveva had a team of 10 colleagues who slept out for the night, 
and through an incredible range of fundraising activities raised 
over  7,000. 
t his event, also encouraged the creation of our avev a Just Giving 
web page, and in 2013, we were recognised by justgiving.com 
as one of the top mid sized companies for fundraising .
In October 2012, AVEVA entered into Byte Night, 
an IT industry charity event raising money for Action 
for Children. 
With a target of  500 per person, the team of ten worked hard 
to raise money for this cause through activities such as a silent 
auction and a charity quiz. avev a colleagues were highly 
supportive of this fundraising event, with people offering their 
time and skills for auction. t he team did fantastically 
and raised  7,107, 142% of the target.
Char Ita Bl E gIvIng at Byt E nIght
a nnual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 29
FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
directors' report