   Power Generation
  Aerospace
  Off Highway
  Niche Automotive
08 Tricorn Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.tricorn.uk.com
Tricorn Group plc
Corporate Governance
Directors
The Directors support the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Group. The Board is responsible for approving the Group's policy and
strategy. It meets on a regular basis and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. Management supply the Board with appropriate and timely
information and the Directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary. All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary
and independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
The Board consists of three executive Directors, who hold the key operational positions in the Group and two non-executive Directors, who bring a breadth of
experience and knowledge. This provides a balance whereby the Board's decision making cannot be dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the Board is
N C Paul and the other non-executive Director is R Allsop. The Board approve the strategic decisions of the Group. The Group's business is run on a day to day
basis by M I Welburn, P Lee and N Silverthorne, with M I Welburn having overall responsibility as the Chief Executive.
Relations with shareholders
The Group values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and performance. The Annual General Meeting will be used
to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. The Directors will be available to answer questions. Separate resolutions will be
proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there will be a resolution to approve the annual report and accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's assets and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An audit committee has been established comprising the non-executive Directors. Following the resignation of J Rubins as a non-executive Director, this is now
chaired by R Allsop. The committee meets at least twice per annum and is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly
monitored and reported on as well as meeting the auditors and reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and internal control systems.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the Group does not justify it at present. However, it will keep the
decision under annual review.
Board structure
The key features of the Group's system of governance are as follows:
- the Group is headed by an effective Board, which leads and controls the Group;
- there is a clear division of responsibilities in running the Board and running the Group's business;
- the Board includes a balance of executive and non-executive Directors; and
- the Board receives and reviews on a timely basis financial and operating information appropriate to be able to discharge its duties. 09
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. Detailed cash flow forecasts have been prepared which highlight that the Group has sufficient cash headroom to support its activities. The forecasts also
highlight that the financial covenants included in the bank loan agreement will be fully complied with. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors' remuneration
The Board recognises that Directors' remuneration is of legitimate concern to the shareholders and is committed to following current best practice. The Group
operates within a competitive environment, performance depends on the individual contributions of the Directors and employees and it believes in rewarding vision
and innovation.
Policy on executive Directors' remuneration
Detail of individual Directors' remuneration is set out in note 5 to the financial statements. The policy of the Board is to provide executive remuneration packages
designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the calibre necessary to maintain the Group's position and to reward them for enhancing shareholder value
and return. It aims to provide sufficient levels of remuneration to do this, but to avoid paying more than is necessary and reflects the Directors' responsibilities. A
separate remuneration committee has been established comprising the non-executive Directors and is chaired by R Allsop.
Basic annual salary
The Remuneration Committee reviews each executive Director's basic salary annually. In deciding upon appropriate levels of remuneration the Board believes that
the Group should offer levels of base pay reflecting individual responsibilities and commensurate with similar jobs in other business sectors.
Annual bonus payments, benefits and pension arrangements
M I Welburn and P Lee participate in a performance related bonus arrangement through Tricorn Group plc.
N Silverthorne shares in a performance related bonus arrangement within Malvern Tubular Components Limited.
M I Welburn, P Lee and N Silverthorne benefit from the provision of private medical insurance, the provision of company cars and participate in a contributory
pension scheme.
R Allsop and N C Paul receive no bonus, pension or benefits in kind.
Notice periods
M I Welburn and N Silverthorne have service agreements with the Group which are terminable on not less than 12 months written notice given by either party
to the other at any time. P Lee has a service agreement with the Group which is terminable on not less than 6 months written notice given by either party to the
other at any time.
N C Paul and R Allsop have letters of appointment with the Group which are terminable upon 6 months written notice being given by either party.   Power Generation
  Aerospace
  Off Highway
  Niche Automotive
10 Tricorn Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.tricorn.uk.com
Tricorn Group plc
Corporate Governance
continued
Share option incentives
The Company has adopted a number of individual unapproved and enterprise management scheme share option agreements to motivate and retain key personnel
of the Group. At 31 March 2009 the following options were held by the Directors:
At beginning Lapsed Granted Exercised At end
of period during the year during the year during the year of year Exercise price
Number Number Number Number Number  
Unapproved share options
N C Paul CBE 200,000 - - - 200,000 0.30
M I Welburn 306,339 - - - 306,339 0.1775
M I Welburn 375,000 - - - 375,000 0.40
Enterprise management scheme (EMI) options
M I Welburn 750,000 - - - 750,000 0.10
N Silverthorne 200,000 - - - 200,000 0.10
N Silverthorne 150,000 - - - 150,000 0.20
M I Welburn 193,661 - - - 193,661 0.1775
P Lee - - 500,000 - 500,000 0.10
Unapproved share options
N C Paul's option is exercisable between 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2009. The unapproved share options granted on 30 November 2006, over
306,339 shares for M I Welburn are to be exercisable at 17.75p per share once the mid-market price has been maintained at 30p per share or greater for ten
consecutive working days - this has been attained. The unapproved options granted over 375,000 shares for M I Welburn are exercisable at 40p per share between
30 November 2007 and 29 November 2014.
EMI options
M I Welburn has three separate EMI share options. The first option is over 500,000 ordinary shares which is exercisable at 10p per share after 12 months
continuous employment and will remain in force for ten years. The second option over 250,000 shares is to be exercisable at 10p per share once the mid-market
price has been maintained at 20p per share or greater for ten consecutive working days. The third option, granted on 27 July 2006 over 193,661 shares is to be
exercisable at 17.75p per share once the mid-market price has been maintained at 30p per share or greater for ten consecutive working days.
N Silverthorne was granted an EMI option on his appointment as a Director of the Company, effective 1 December 2004. This option is over 200,000 ordinary 10p
shares and will remain in force for ten years. He also had 150,000 EMI options prior to his appointment as a Director which are exercisable at 20p per share. None
of the options have performance conditions attached to them.
P Lee was granted an EMI option over 500,000 shares at 10p on commencement of his employment. The first 250,000 are exercisable after 3 months continuous
employment. The second 250,000 are exercisable after a further 12 months continuous employment. This option is in force for 10 years and does not have
performance conditions attached to it.
The exercise periods for share options were set by the Remuneration Committee in order to incentivise and retain key executives. All share disposals will be limited
to one third of the option in any given year without prior Board approval. The market price of the Company's shares at 31 March 2009 was 6.5p (31 March 2008:
34.0p) and the range during the year was 6.5p to 35.5p (2008: 3.75p to 44.5p).