 |25|
Directors' Remuneration Report
(Information not subject to audit)
The Directors present the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2006. This Report has been prepared in accordance
with The Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the regulations ). The Auditors are required to report on the  auditable'
part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the regulations). The report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and
unaudited information. In accordance with schedule 7A of the Companies Act, this report has been approved by the Board for
approval by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Compliance
The Board has reviewed the Group's compliance with the Combined Code and it is its opinion that throughout the year the
Company complied with the Principles and Provisions on remuneration specified in the Combined Code.
Remuneration Committee
The objective of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) is to develop remuneration strategies that drive performance and
provide levels of reward which reflect that performance, both for the Executive Directors and other key Executives. It is also
responsible for reviewing the overall remuneration policy for all employees.
The Committee is composed entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. Its current members are Andrew Cripps (Chairman)
and Eric Hutchinson. Members have no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business and no personal financial interest in
the Company other than that of shareholders. No Executive Director sits on the Committee. The Remuneration Committee is
formally constituted with written Terms of Reference. A copy of the terms of reference is available to shareholders by writing to the
Company Secretary whose details are set out on page 24 of the Report and Accounts.
The Committee had nine meetings during the year. All members of the Committee at the time attended each meeting. During the
period the Committee felt that given the size of the Group, it was valuable for the Group Chairman to also attend the meetings.
The Committee is advised on matters relating to Directors as required. Halliwell Consulting, an independent Executive compensation
and share scheme consultancy, was appointed to undertake a full review of the Company's remuneration policies. The results of this
review are reflected in the revised remuneration policy as shown below.
The Committee also consults with the Company HR Manager and Company Secretary regarding issues on areas of Remuneration and
Corporate Governance. With regard to Senior Executives in the Company (excluding Board Directors), the Committee also takes
advice from the Executive Board.
Remuneration Policy
During the year the Committee reviewed its Remuneration Policy to ensure that it continues to motivate, retain and incentivise the
key individuals within the Company who are ultimately responsible for driving shareholder value. 
The overriding principle behind the new policy is that, levels of salary should be conservative but balanced with the opportunity to
earn generous rewards from short and long-term incentives provided stretching performance targets are met which lead to the
enhancement of shareholder value. In conjunction with the implementation of the new policy, the Committee has also implemented
the following changes:
  The increase in the maximum annual bonus potential from 60% to 70%. Bonus payout is now linked to more stretching
performance targets linked to the Company's short-term objectives. There has been a corresponding increase in the level of
corporate performance which must be achieved for full payout.
  The movement away from using share options to conditional share awards with stretching performance targets aligned to the
Company's strategy.
  The introduction of shareholding requirement for Executive Directors.
The chart below demonstrates the balance between fixed and maximum variable performance based pay, assuming all performance
conditions satisfied in full for each Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Actual remuneration to the Executives is shown in the table on page 32.
Components of Remuneration Package
In order to achieve the objectives of the Committee's new policy on remuneration, the individual components of an Executive
Director's remuneration package are determined as follows:
Trifast AR06  4/8/06  8:08 am  Page 33 |26|
Base Salary
The policy of the Committee during the year ended 31 March 2006 was to set base salaries around the lower quartile to median of
an appropriate comparator group.
Factors taken into account by the Committee when determining base salary levels are:
  Objective research based on a review of the remuneration in UK quoted companies with similar corporate attributes drawn from
the following industry sectors:
  Support Services
  Engineering and Machinery 
  Electronic and Electrical Equipment
  Engineering
  The performance of the individual Executive Director
  Experience and responsibilities of each Executive Director
  Pay and conditions throughout the Group
It is the intention of the Committee that base salaries will continue to remain around the lower quartile to median of the comparator
group. The Company believes that this is in the best interests of shareholders as it demonstrates the Company's commitment to keep
fixed costs down. Salaries are reviewed annually in April.
Benefits
In line with other companies, benefits are provided in the form of a Company car (or car allowance), private medical insurance,
permanent health insurance, critical illness cover and life cover at 13.33 times earnings at date of death. This life cover provides a
benefit in the form of a four times salary lump sum and a balance to buy a spouse's annuity. The provision of these benefits is in line
with market practice.
Pension
Jim Barker, Stuart Lawson and Steve Auld are members of the Company's non-contributory pension plan. This is an Inland Revenue
approved defined contribution scheme. The rate of Company contribution to this scheme is 20% of basic salary. The normal age of
retirement is 65 years. Steve Tan is based in Singapore and has a maximum of 20% basic salary paid into a Government enforced
retirement savings scheme. Geoffrey Budd does not participate in the Company plan and the Company has agreed to make a
contribution of a maximum of 20% of current basic salary into his private pension scheme. 
The pension provision is in line with market practice.
)
Directors' Remuneration Report
(Information not subject to audit)
Trifast AR06  4/8/06  8:56 am  Page 34 Annual Bonus Payment
As part of its recent review of remuneration policy the Committee has made amendments to the annual bonus scheme. These changes
ensure that a greater proportion of an Executive's compensation package is linked to deliverable and stretching short-term performance
in line with corporate governance best practice.
For the year ended 31 March 2006 the maximum bonus potential is 70% of salary. This is the median level of maximum bonus
potential within the comparator group. Bonus payments are not pensionable. Performance targets are linked to Earnings per Share
(EPS ) growth (up to 50% of salary) and objective personal financial targets (up to 20% of salary), except for the Director responsible
for the Far East, Steven Tan, whose bonus is primarily linked to objective local financial targets. For the year ended 31 March 2006 the
Committee determined that the following bonuses would be paid:
Jim Barker 15.0%
Stuart Lawson 15.0%
Geoff Budd 7.5%
Steven Tan 50.0%
Steve Auld 15.0% (pro rata for the period from 13 October 2005)
Bonus targets are reviewed and agreed by the Committee at the beginning of each financial year. The performance measures for the
annual bonus are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and
position of the Company, so that they continue to remain challenging. It is the opinion of the Committee that the nature of the
performance conditions remain appropriate for the year ending 31 March 2007.
Long-Term Incentives
Following approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Company introduced a new long term incentive arrangement known as
the Trifast plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP ). Awards under the LTIP are delivered in the form of conditional share awards
which will be released in three years dependent on continued employment and the satisfaction of demanding performance targets. 
The Company believes that the LTIP is closely aligned to the Company's business strategy and the delivery of performance by Executive
Directors. The LTIP is designed to lock in Executive Directors and to motivate them through the opportunity to earn competitive levels
of financial reward on the achievement of demanding performance targets linked to the Company's long term strategy. 
Full details of the awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP are contained in the audited section of this report on page 31.
It should be noted that the Company will not grant any Executive share options to individuals who have been granted awards under the
LTIP.
The Executive Directors may also participate in the Trifast Savings Related Share Option Scheme that is open to all UK employees and is
Inland Revenue approved. The Scheme offers 3, 5 and 7 year savings contracts which provide an option to purchase shares after
maturity at a discount to the share price on the date the contract is taken out (the maximum discount is 20% of mid-market price).
Shareholding Guidelines
The Committee will ensure that Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a meaningful holding in the Company over a five year
period. This demonstrates their commitment and confidence in the Company going forward and further aligns the interests of the
Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Contracts
a) Executive Directors
During the year all Executive Directors had rolling service contracts, under which the Company had the right to give 12 months' notice
of termination (or payment in lieu) and the Director had also to give 12 months' notice.
The Board is confident that these rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months (and contractual termination payments) are
appropriate for the business and in accordance with best practice Corporate Governance.
The dates of the Executive Directors' contracts are:
J Barker 17 April 2003
S Lawson 1 January 2003
G Budd 17 April 2003
S Tan 2 April 2001
S Auld 13 October 2005
No Executive Directors held any position, either Executive or Non-Executive, outside the Group during the year.
Directors' Remuneration Report
(Information not subject to audit)
|27|
Trifast AR06  4/8/06  10:46 am  Page 35