 32:33
Trifast plc Annual Report 2004
Corporate Governance
Following the issue of the Code of Best Practice of the Committee (the Combined Code ) on
the Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance, the Board has carried out a full review of the
Group's compliance for the year ended 31 March 2004. 
In the opinion of the Directors the Group has complied throughout the period with Section 1
of the Code of Best Practice with the exception of the following items (references in brackets
are to provisions in the Combined Code):
a) Directors' training. No Director received specific training during the year, but the Board
will arrange training where it is considered appropriate. However, all members regularly
attend relevant business seminars and industry meetings (A.1.6).
b) Nominations Committee. The Board considers that it is not of sufficient size to warrant a
Nominations Committee (A.5.1). 
c) Audit Committee. During the period between the resignation of David Dugdale (Chairman)
on 31 December 2003 and the appointment of Eric Hutchinson (Chairman) on 21 June
2004 (whilst the interviewing process was being conducted) the Committee consisted of
two Independent Non-Executive Directors (D.3.1).
A revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance was issued by the Financial Reporting
Council in July 2003, which is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 November
2003. The Board has reviewed this and is in the process of applying the additional
requirements of the revised Combined Code.
The structure of the Board and its standing committees are as follows:
The Board
Currently the Board consists of four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Three of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of
management and free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the
exercise of their independent judgement. The Non-Executive Directors, excluding the
Chairman, met once during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director was Ben Stevens who was chosen due to his
executive board experience with other companies, and had authority to meet with
shareholders without first seeking approval from the Chief Executive or the Chairman.
Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director (21 June 2004), Eric Hutchinson will
take on the role of Senior Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2004 at the time of Ben
Stevens' resignation. The Board intends to appoint an additional Independent Non-Executive
Director during the current year.
The Board met 10 times during the period with attendance as follows:
D J Dugdale (resigned 31 December 2003) 8
A V Allen 10
J C Barker 9
S Lawson 10
G P Budd 10  S Tan (non-UK based) 1*
J Wilson 9
J B Stevens (to resign 30 June 2004) 7 
E G Hutchinson (appointed 21 June 2004)
* Steven Tan is principally based in Asia and, hence, does not attend Board Meetings. However,
he discusses all major issues with the Chief Executive by telephone before each Board meeting.
Upon appointment, the Directors are required to seek election at the first AGM following
appointment. All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals
and at least every 3 years.
The Company has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive. The Chairman leads the
Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Company,
implementing policies and strategies determined by the Board. 
The Board has for many years had a significant non-executive membership. The Non-Executive
Directors have full access to the external auditors and to management and there is a formal
procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their
duties should this be necessary. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary.
The Board meets a minimum of 10 times per year, and is supplied as early as practicable with
an agenda and appropriate papers. Further ad hoc meetings of the Board are held as and when
required. Directors are appointed by the Board on recommendation from the Board as a whole.
The Board monitors the financial performance of the Group, and approves and reviews major
projects and acquisitions. The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are
reserved to the Board for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains control over appropriate
strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Eric Hutchinson was appointed using an independent recruitment consultant.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, as described below:
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists entirely of the Independent Non-Executive Directors. It is now
chaired by Eric Hutchinson (appointed 21 June 2004). Up to 31 December 2003 it was chaired
by David Dugdale, between 1 January 2004 and 21 June 2004 it was chaired by Ben Stevens
and has met 3 times in the year. It provides a line of communication between the Board and
the external auditors. The Committee reviews the Group's interim and annual financial
statements before submission for approval by the Board, reviews the effectiveness of internal
controls and considers any matters raised by the auditors. 
The Committee is considered adequately qualified with all members having strong financial
backgrounds and the Chairman (Eric Hutchinson) is a qualified FCCA currently working in
industry as a Group Finance Director.
For remuneration details see the tables on pages 30 and 31.
It is Group policy to ensure auditor independence by carefully considering any non-audit work 34:35
Trifast plc Annual Report 2004
Corporate Governance
continued
carried out by the auditors. The Group uses a number of accounting advisers and has a specific
policy not to use current auditors for any accounts preparation work.
During the period the Board felt that given the size of the Group it was better served having
the Group Chairman on the committee to form a team of three Independent Non-Executive
Directors for the majority of the period, rather than only having two or recruiting a fourth Non-
Executive.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Independent Non-Executive Directors. It is
chaired by Ben Stevens until his resignation from the Committee on 30 June 2004, from
which date it will be chaired by Eric Hutchinson. They meet as required during the year to
review and determine the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors and
senior management, including levels of remuneration and other benefits. During the period,
the Committee met on four occasions.
Shareholder relations
The Group has a website, which is continually updated to ensure that shareholders are fully
aware of the Group's activities; www.trifast.com. The Group's registrar, Computershare, is also
linked into the Trifast website and offers services for the shareholders.
The members of the audit and remuneration committees will normally be available to speak
to shareholders at the AGM. In addition, shareholders can contact them at any time by writing
to Trifast Plc, Trifast House, Bellbrook Park, Uckfield, TN22 1QW.
Going concern report
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control 
The Combined Code requires that Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of
internal controls which includes controls over financial, operational, compliance and risk
management. The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
control and reported its positive conclusions to the Board.
In addition, the Board takes required account of the significance of social, environmental and
ethical matters in regard to the business of the Group and seeks to take an ethical view of its
responsibilities in providing business opportunities.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's controls. However, such a system is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives,
and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement
or loss regarding:
  The safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition.
  The maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information
used within the business or for publication. The key elements of the system are as follows:
  Full detailed reviews of the business risks undertaken as part of the ongoing day-to-day
procedures of the business.
  An organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of
authority.
  Group policies for financial reporting, accounting, financial risk management, information
security, capital expenditure appraisal and Corporate Governance are all well documented.
  Detailed annual budgets are prepared for all operating units.
  Regular  Healthcheck' reviews are undertaken at each site to cover both operational and
financial controls.
  Performance against budget is monitored closely and material variances reported to the
Board on a monthly basis.
  The control system is operated with the full co-operation of all company directors in a
controlled manner. Risk assessments are done at all levels from local divisional right up
to Main Board with the summaries all being fed up to Main Board for review.
  The Audit Committee deals with significant control issues raised by the external auditors.
  Well-structured reporting lines to the Board. There is a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for decisions by the Board
  Investment approval, controlled by the budgetary process with authorisation levels in
place. Any single capital expenditure over  20,000 goes to the Board with detailed written
proposals and financial analysis of expected returns.
A formalised internal review process has been set up to routinely review the operational and
financial controls within the Group. These reviews are conducted by senior personnel who are
independent from the entity which is under review. Whilst the Board recognises this does not
constitute a fully independent internal audit function, it believes that due to the size of the
Company this process provides sufficient comfort as to the controls in place. 
The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal
control systems for the period from 1 April 2003 to the date of approval of the financial
statements and are comfortable that they meet the requirements of the Turnbull Report.
The Board will continue to review the operation and effectiveness of its control assessment
system on a regular basis.