 17989	 05/08/2010	 Proof	7
44 Trifast plc Annual Report 2010
Corporate Governance
The Board met ten times during the period with attendance as 
follows:
J C Barker  10
G P Budd  10
M M Diamond  10
N S Chapman  10
J Shearman (appointed 1 July 2009)  7 
Upon appointment the Directors are required to seek election at 
the first AGM following appointment. All Directors are required to 
submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least 
every three years.
The Company has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive. 
The Chairman leads the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible 
for the management of the Company, implementing policies and 
strategies determined by the Board. 
The Independent Non-Executive Directors have full access to 
the external Auditors and to management and there is a formal 
procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice in 
the furtherance of their duties should this be necessary. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Appropriate and relevant training is provided to the Directors as and 
when required.
The Board meets a minimum of five times a year, and is supplied as 
early as practical with an agenda and appropriate papers. Further 
ad-hoc meetings of the Board are held as and when required. 
Directors are appointed by the Board on recommendation from 
the Nominations Committee. The Board monitors the financial 
performance of the Group, and approves and reviews major projects 
and acquisitions. The Board has formally adopted a schedule of 
matters which are reserved to the Board for decision, thus ensuring 
that it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, 
organisation and compliance issues.
The Board undertakes annual evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its Committees using questionnaires and continues to 
train and evaluate Senior Managers below Board level in order to 
maintain its continuous succession policy.
With exceptions as highlighted below, the Company complied 
with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 
(as amended) (the Combined Code ).
The Board acknowledges that for part of the year the Board 
structure was not compliant with provision C.3.1 of the Combined 
Code due to restructuring of the Board. This provision requires a 
smaller company to have at least two independent Non-Executives. 
This non-compliance was rectified with the appointment of an 
Independent Non-Executive Director, Jonathan Shearman, on  
1 July 2009.
The reduced Non-Executive position of the Company between  
1 April 2009 and 30 June 2009 meant that the Company was also 
unable to comply with the Combined Code minimum Non-Executive 
Director requirements in the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees during this time.
The Board also acknowledges Malcolm Diamond is a non-
independent Executive Chairman which does not comply with the 
requirements of the Combined Code. However, the Board believes 
that given Mr Diamond sits as Chairman and as a Non-Executive in 
other companies, his experience from these appointments and his 
previous knowledge of Trifast is invaluable.
The structure of the Board and its standing committees are as 
follows:
The Board
During the year the Board consisted of two Executive Directors, 
two Independent Non-Executive Directors and a Chairman. The 
Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of 
management and free from any business or other relationship which 
could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement 
for the purposes of the Code. The Chairman, who is an Executive 
Chairman, is not considered by the Board to be independent.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Neil Chapman 
who was chosen due to his Executive Board experience with other 
companies.
All Independent Non-Executive Directors have the authority to meet 
with Shareholders without first seeking approval from the Chief 
Executive or the Chairman.  17989	 05/08/2010	 Proof	7
45 www.trifast.com
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the Independent Non-
Executive Directors, the Chief Executive and the Chairman and 
meets at least once a year. It is chaired by Neil Chapman, as Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. The Committee is responsible 
for reviewing the Board structure, size and composition and for 
nominating candidates for Executive and Non-Executive positions. It 
will also ensure that any newly appointed Director receives a full and 
proper induction into the Company's affairs.
Shareholder relations
The Group has a website, www.trifast.com, which is regularly 
updated to ensure that Shareholders are fully aware of the Group's 
activities. The Group's Registrars, Computershare, is also linked to 
the Trifast website and offers services for the Shareholders.
The Group also works with City Specialists to ensure all levels of 
Shareholders receive Trifast information, such as:
Arden Partners   Institutions
Citigate   Press, Analysts and Private Client Brokers
Edison   Analyst information available via TR website or Edison
The members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees will normally be available to speak to Shareholders at 
the AGM. In addition, Shareholders can contact them at any time  
by writing to Trifast plc, Trifast House, Bellbrook Park, Uckfield,  
TN22 1QW.
Going concern report
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Further information is given in 
the Basis of preparation , note 1. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control 
The Combined Code requires that Directors review the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal controls which includes controls 
over financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The 
Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control and reported its positive conclusions to the Board.
In addition, the Board takes required account of the significance of 
social, environmental and ethical matters in regard to the business of 
the Group and seeks to take an ethical view of its responsibilities in 
providing business opportunities. 
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, as 
described below:
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee's principal responsibilities are to assist 
the Board in reviewing and approving the Company's financial 
statements including any significant financial judgements contained 
therein, monitoring the Company's internal financial control and risk 
management systems and making recommendations to the Board 
with regard to the appointment and remuneration of the external 
Auditors.
It is Group policy to ensure auditor independence by carefully 
considering any non-audit work carried out by the Auditors. The 
Group uses a number of professional advisers and has a specific 
policy not to use the current external Auditors for any accounts 
preparation work.
The Audit Committee comprises entirely the Independent Non-
Executive Directors. It is chaired by Neil Chapman and has met 
four times in the year. Jonathan Shearman was appointed to the 
Committee on 1 July 2009. During the period the Committee 
felt that, given the size of the Group, it was valuable having the 
Chairman, CEO and CFO attending the committee meetings. The 
external Auditor also normally attend meetings. In addition, there is 
at least one meeting a year where the Audit Committee meets the 
external Auditors without executive management present.
The Committee is considered to be adequately qualified. The 
Chairman, a qualified FCA, was previously the senior partner of 
KPMG's South-East operation and now works in industry as a Group 
Finance Director.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Independent Non-
Executive Directors and was chaired during the year by Jonathan 
Shearman. Jonathan joined the Committee on 1 July 2009. The 
Committee meets as required during the year to review and 
determine the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive 
Directors and senior management, including levels of remuneration 
and other benefits. During the period, the Committee met on two 
occasions. 17989	 05/08/2010	 Proof	7
46 Trifast plc Annual Report 2010
Corporate Governance continued
A formalised internal review process has been set up to routinely 
review the operational and financial controls within the Group. 
These reviews are conducted by senior personnel who are 
independent from the entity which is under review. Whilst the 
Board recognises that this does not constitute a fully independent 
internal audit function, it believes that due to the size of the Group, 
this process provides appropriate comfort as to the operational and 
financial controls in place. 
The Board and Audit Committee continually review the effectiveness 
of the Group's internal control systems. No significant failings or 
weaknesses were identified as a result of this review process. As 
such, the Board and Audit Committee are comfortable that they 
meet the requirements of the Turnbull Report.
Our Corporate Social Responsibility Statement can be found on our 
website www.trifast.com.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's controls. 
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure in order to achieve business objectives, and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss regarding:
l The safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or 
disposition.
l The maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of 
financial information used within the business or for publication.
The key elements of the system are as follows:
l Full detailed reviews of the business risks undertaken as part of 
the ongoing day-to-day procedures of the business.
l An organisational structure with clearly defined lines of 
responsibility and delegation of authority.
l Group policies for financial reporting, accounting, financial risk 
management, information security, capital expenditure appraisal 
and Corporate Governance are all well documented.
l Detailed annual budgets and rolling forecasts are prepared for all 
operating units and reviewed/approved by the Board.
l Regular Healthcheck  reviews are undertaken at each site 
to cover both operational and financial controls with reports 
reviewed by the Audit Committee.
l Performance against budget is monitored closely and material 
variances are reported to the Board on a monthly basis. Rolling 
forecasts are updated quarterly and reviewed accordingly.
l The control system is operated with the full co-operation of all 
Company Directors. Risk assessments are done at all levels from 
local divisional right up to the Main Board with the summaries all 
being fed up to the Main Board for review.
l The Audit Committee deals with any significant control issues 
raised by the external Auditors.
l Well-structured reporting lines to the Board. There is a formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
l Investment approval, controlled by the budgetary process with 
authorisation levels in place. Any single capital expenditure over 
 20,000 goes to the Board with detailed written proposals and 
financial analysis of expected returns.