 TT electronics plc 
Annual Report 2012 40
Neil Jones was awarded 
the CEO Award in 
recognition of relentless 
pursuit for an innovative 
solution to an important 
problem, coupled with his 
outstanding leadership 
skills. 
 Directors' report - Our progress in 20 1 2
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
As a trusted provider of performance 
critical technology solutions with 
customers and operations around the 
world, TT electronics has responsibility for 
our workplace, marketplace, community 
and environment. Global industries face 
unprecedented challenges of macro-
economic uncertainty, climate change and 
energy issues. Society expects creative, 
innovative and responsible thinking 
from industry.
We manage TT electronics responsibly and 
sustainably in accordance with the diverse 
expectations of global stakeholders. We 
understand corporate responsibility (CR ) as a 
dynamic discipline to understand the direction 
of TT electronics, manage risk and maximise 
opportunities worldwide.
The Corporate and Social Responsibility 
Committee, chaired by the Group Chief 
Executive, is responsible for defining our CR 
strategies, monitoring our CR performance and 
ensuring that our CR activity contributes to our 
overall business objectives.
Our CR agenda covers principal issues affecting 
the long-term sustainability of the Group by 
directly impacting reputation or ability to 
operate. The Group's four CR priorities, 
identified below, are material to our long-term 
performance and are supplemented at 
local level by CR programmes addressing 
local issues.
OUR WORKPLACE
We believe that the people working at TT 
electronics are our key assets. Creating a good 
working environment at all of our locations is 
of paramount importance. We strive to build 
supportive, diverse and attractive workplaces, 
whilst nurturing a high performance corporate 
culture from our core values.
An engaged workforce significantly enhances 
company performance. Engaged employees 
are more likely to perform well, promote TT 
and remain with TT for the longer term. 
They are also more likely to enhance our 
relationships with customers, stakeholders and 
the communities within which we operate.
Employee engagement begins with fostering 
a culture that is open, transparent and 
collaborative. At all levels within TT, we 
encourage openness and equality to enhance 
our culture. 
We strive to maintain engagement of 
employees at all points from recruitment to 
retirement. We approach every interaction 
with openness, honesty and integrity. Strong 
relationships built on trust are at the core of 
what we do. Collaboration across the Group 
and outside of TT assists our ability to gather 
important insights and ideas, improving the 
way we conduct our business and serve 
our customers.
In 2012, significant progress was made to 
connect continually with our employees at all 
levels: We see this as critical to engagement. 
Throughout TT, we provide numerous open, 
transparent and two-way communication 
channels in manufacturing process, the 
promotion of best practice and strategically. 
Employees enjoy a wide range of 
communication tools to assist their 
understanding of the Company's goals and 
objectives. For example, all managers are 
encouraged to attend the quarterly webcast 
presented by the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director and cascade messages 
to their teams. Team briefings, suggestion 
schemes, employee forums and our global 
intranet TT Talk  are among many other 
examples of our communication channels.
TT Talk is a Group wide intranet which 
showcases a broad range of activities from 
across the Group. Our CR section focuses on  
initiatives, employee achievements and 
charitable causes in which our people are 
involved, both through work and in the 
outside world.
We employ more than 5,000 people globally 
and continue to invest in their training and 
development. We strongly believe in 
equipping our people with the skills to do their 
jobs effectively, encouraging them to develop 
to their full potential. TT electronics provides a 
variety of tailored training and development 
opportunities. In 2012, the divisions continued 
their Six Sigma training programmes with 
further development of yellow, green and 
black belts.
In 2012, we launched our global management 
development programme - Aspire. The aim of 
Aspire is to provide supervisors and managers 
with fundamental skills for coaching their 
employees. Over 500 managers participated 
in the two day face-to-face training sessions 
which were held at each of our locations. 
91 per cent of participants believe the course 
will lead to an overall increase in productivity.
We continued to make significant progress 
during 201 2 in creating a working environment 
that supports the health, safety and well-being 
of our people. We saw a 30 per cent reduction 
in the number of three day workplace 
accidents compared with 201 1. This represents 
an overall 58 per cent reduction in our three 
day accident rate over the last two years.
During the year all facilities within our 
Integrated Manufacturing Services division 
(IMS) achieved OHAS 18001 accreditation. 
The OHAS 18001 specification provides 
consistent requirements for an occupational 
Health and Safety management system, 
enabling IMS to control its occupational health 
and safety risks and improve its performance.
Managers and employees alike are encouraged 
to promote and live our corporate values, 
collectively making our people feel proud to 
be part of our organisation. During 2012 over 
1,000 Thank You  cards were issued through 
our global recognition programme Inspire , 
which acknowledges individual and team 
contributions through monthly recognition 
awards, quarterly exceptional awards and 
bi-annual Group Chief Executive awards.
During 2012, Neil Jones and Bertold Lange 
(pictured below) were presented with the CEO 
Award in recognition of their outstanding 
contributions to the Group.
Bertold Lange is pictured 
receiving his CEO Award 
from Pat Murray, Chief 
Executive for the Sensors 
division. Bertold was 
awarded the CEO award in 
recognition of his leadership 
skills and unfaltering focus 
on the customer. Overview Our progress in 2012 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our plan for growth
TT electronics plc 
Annual Report 2012 41
Our colleagues in Mexico 
supporting International 
Childhood Cancer Day.
Our UK Charity of the 
Year partnership is with 
Macmillan Cancer Support.
OUR MARKETPLACE
We work closely with our customers, treating 
them with respect whilst ensuring we 
maintain the highest ethical standards. To this 
end we have launched a global, multi-lingual 
Ethics and Integrity Helpline. During the year 
five cases, all pertaining to the same matter, 
were submitted via the portal. All were 
investigated and appropriate action taken.
We seek to be a business partner that 
customers choose to work with for integrity 
and fairness. We require our own supply chain 
to ensure that their employees operate in a safe 
environment. The Group is a member of the 
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC ) 
and follows its Code of Conduct. The Code of 
Conduct provides guidance in four critical areas 
of CR performance - Environment, Ethics, 
Health and Safety, and Labour.
In 2012, we focused on improving the way in 
which we monitor and manage our supply 
chain and our production facilities. We adhere 
to appropriate values, ethics, standards and 
behaviours, even in areas where laws or 
standards are inadequate or absent, ensuring 
that we meet the needs of all stakeholders. 
During the year, we completed comprehensive 
EICC self-assessment questionnaires for each of 
our manufacturing facilities. All facilities scored 
well in each of the four critical areas.
Ensuring that we provide a world-class service 
to our customers is essential to the continued 
growth of our business. Each division has its 
own set of quality and performance measures 
which are monitored on a monthly basis. 
We undertake regular reviews with all our 
key customers to gather clear feedback on 
our performance.
We are vigilant about ensuring compliance 
with the UK's Bribery Act and similar legislation 
elsewhere, including continuous training and 
the terms and conditions under which we 
conduct business.
OUR ENVIRONMENT
During 2012, we continued to consolidate 
our position in terms of optimised energy 
consumption and are well placed in the 
published Carbon Reduction Commitment 
league table for our industrial sector.
Our objective of improving our carbon 
footprint within UK operations continues to 
gain momentum. Managed by focused internal 
teams, we are actively seeking best use of 
renewable resources, with localised wind 
generation and targeted solar arrays 
under consideration.
During 2012, all UK manufacturing sites 
installed smart metering systems to monitor 
gas and electricity usage and provide real time 
data with which we can further monitor and 
manage energy consumption.
In another example of improvement, our UK 
subsidiary, Welwyn Components Ltd is in the 
final stages of obtaining phase 2 of a Climate 
Change Agreement. The Welwyn team is 
working alongside AB Connectors and 
consultants from the Surface Coating 
Association on targeted carbon reduction. 
We continue to support and meet the 
requirements of the Carbon Trust Standard and 
aim to continue with our membership in 201 3.
OUR COMMUNITY
Our UK charity partnership with Help the 
Hospices ended in 2012. Our employees have 
been amazing in supporting this charity over 
the last two years. Through fundraising and 
volunteering efforts, they have taken part  
in everything from bike rides to marathons, 
organised raffles and cake bakes, dressed up 
and dressed down. The work and energy that 
has been put into these activities by our 
employees is admirable. In total, we raised 
 100,000 for our local hospices.
For 2013, based on feedback from employees, 
our UK Charity of the Year partnership is with 
Macmillan Cancer Support. Macmillan is a 
national organisation, with many initiatives 
organised at a local level, and we look forward 
to working with and supporting them during 
the course of 2013.
Our facility in Mexico supported their local 
community when they participated in an event 
organised by the City Children's Hospital and 
the AproCancer Organization for the 
International Childhood Cancer Day.  
Employees donated a total of 80 new toys  
for children between the ages of three and  
13 years. The committee of employees also 
helped with a range of other activities.
Congratulations to all who gave something 
back to their local community through their 
support for this noble cause.
As an organisation we believe that it is our 
responsibility to ensure that our activities 
support strong, thriving and diverse 
communities around the world. We aim to 
make a distinctive contribution to equality and 
social development by establishing effective 
partnerships and programmes that make best 
use of the energies and skills of our employees. 
We will continue to support our employees in 
fundraising for charities and voluntary work, 
recognising both the benefit to the 
community and to the employees themselves. GOVERNANCE
IN THIS SECTION
43 Introduction by the Chairman
44 Board of Directors and Company Secretary
46 Operating Board
47 Corporate Governance
52 Nominations Committee
53 Audit Committee
55 Remuneration Report
64 Other statutory disclosures
TT electronics plc 
Annual Report 2012 42