 19
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
As an AIM listed company, UBC Media Group plc is not required to comply with the main provisions of the principles of 
good governance and code of best practice prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance (the  Combined Code'). 
However, the Company supports the principles of good governance laid down in the Combined Code and insofar as they 
are able, for a company of its size, the Board complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
This statement provides details of how UBC Media Group has applied these principles and complied insofar as they are 
able for a company of its size with the detailed provisions of Section1 of the Combined Code.
The Board 
The Company is controlled through a Board of Directors, which at 31 March 2005 comprised four executive directors and 
eight non-executive directors. A non-executive director of the Company, K.R. Harris, resigned as a director on 26 May 
2005 and it is the intention of the non-executive director, I.M. Peacock, to resign from the Board at the Company's AGM 
on 29 July 2005. Short biographies of each director are set out on page 16.
The role of the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive are separate and have been so since the Company's formation.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is P .H.B. Pascoe.
The Chairman, who was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2005, is responsible for the leadership of the Board, 
ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda. The Chairman also ensures that the directors 
receive accurate, timely and clear information and that there is effective communication with shareholders. The 
Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of the other Non-Executive Directors and ensures constructive 
relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive's responsibilities are concerned with co-ordinating the Group's business and implementing 
Group strategy.
The Board's role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of UBC Media Group within the framework of prudent and 
effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board is responsible for setting the Company's 
strategic aims and for ensuring the financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives 
and to review management performance. The Board is also responsible for setting the Company's values and standards 
and ensuring that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board dispatches its role by holding bi-monthly meetings, at which:
-  monthly management accounts, including budgets and prior year comparatives, are presented and reviewed;
-  strategy is set and policy is debated;
-  all significant investment and acquisition opportunities are reviewed and, if appropriate, approval is given;
-  any proposed changes to internal control and operating policies are debated.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the Company's affairs which allows 
them to constructively challenge and help develop proposals and strategy, scrutinise performance and controls and take 
decisions objectively in the interests of the Company. N.E. Edmonds and P .H.B. Pascoe, as representatives of Unique 
Communications Limited, a significant shareholder in the Company, are not considered by the Board to be independent. 
In addition, T.J. Blackmore and I.M. Peacock, by reasons of their significant shareholdings in the Company, are not 
considered by the Board to be independent; and K.R. Harris, by reason of his significant shareholding in the Company, 
was not considered by the Board to be independent.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after appointment and to re-election every 
three years. At the Annual General Meeting in 2004 I.M. Peacock, T.J. Blackmore and N.E. Edmonds were re-elected to 
the Board. Details of directors submitted for re-election at the forthcoming AGM are provided on page 46.
The Company indemnifies directors for claims made against them in relation to their duties, with the exception of any 
losses incurred as a result of their wilful negligence. Insurance cover with an annual limit of  1 million is maintained in 
respect of potential legal action.
The Board of Directors meets formally approximately six times a year. During the year attendance at formal meetings 
of the Board was as follows: T.J. Blackmore, S.A. Cole, K.R. Harris, K.F. Harrison, M.A. Honey, P .H.B. Pascoe, J.P . 
Quinn and R.S. Silverstone attended on six occasions; J.H. Donald attended five meetings; and I.M. Peacock attended 
four meetings. J. Hodson was appointed as a director of the Company on 18 February 2005 and in the period from 18 
February 2005 to 31 March 2005 attended one meeting of the Board. N.E. Edmonds did not attend any formal meetings 
of the Board. In addition there were a number of informal meetings of the Board.
The Company has adopted the Model Code for Directors' dealings as applicable to AIM companies.
Financial Reporting and Going Concern 
The Board places considerable emphasis on ensuring that all communications with shareholders present a balanced  
and transparent assessment of the Group's position and prospects. The Board or a sub-committee of the Board reviews 
and approves results announcements, interim reports, annual reports, the Chairman's AGM statement and trading 
updates prior to their release. The directors' statement of responsibilities in respect of the preparation of financial 
statements is set out on page 21 and the Auditors' statement on the respective responsibilities of directors and  
auditors is included within their report on page 23.
Internal Controls & Risk Management 
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and 
the Company's assets. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
Board regularly reviews this process and the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. The review  
covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems. 
Committees of the Board 
The Board has three standing committees, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the 
Nominations Committee, each of which operate within defined terms of reference.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee consists of P .B.H. Pascoe, as chairman, K.F. Harrison and R.S. Silverstone. The Audit Committee 
has primary responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company; reviewing the  20
UBC MEDIA GROUP PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
Company's internal financial controls; ensuring that the financial performance of the Company is properly measured and 
reported on; and for reviewing reports from the Company's auditors relating to the Company's accounting and internal 
financial controls. The Finance Director and other senior management also attend committee meetings by invitation. 
The Committee has direct access to the Company's auditors and meets with the auditors at least once a year without 
executive management being present. The Audit Committee met formally twice during the year.
During the year to 31 March 2005 K.R. Harris was chairman of the Audit Committee and P .H.B. Pascoe, I.M. Peacock, 
K.F. Harrison and R.S. Silverstone were members of the Committee. Since the year-end I.M. Peacock and K.R. Harris 
resigned as members of the Audit Committee and P .B.H. Pascoe was appointed as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee consists of K.F. Harrison, as chairman, J. Hodson, P .H.B. Pascoe and R.S. Silverstone. 
Further details of the Committee's remit are contained in the Remuneration Committee report on page 22.  
The Remuneration Committee met formally four times during the year.
During the year to 31 March 2005 P .H.B. Pascoe was chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I.M. Peacock,  
K.R. Harris, K.F. Harrison and R.S. Silverstone were members of the Committee. Since the year-end I.M. Peacock  
and K.R. Harris resigned as members of the Remuneration Committee, J. Hodson was appointed as a member and  
K.F. Harrison was appointed as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee is responsible for succession planning and ensuring that all appointments to the Board are 
objective. The Committee oversees the selection and appointment of directors, making its recommendations to the full 
Board. The Committee meets as and when required. The Nominations Committee met twice during the year.  
The Committee consists of J. Hodson, as chairman, S.A. Cole and J.H. Donald. 
During the year to 31 March 2005 I.M. Peacock was chairman of the Nominations Committee and K.R. Harris was a 
member of the Committee. Since the year-end I.M. Peacock and K.R. Harris resigned as members of the Committee  
and J. Hodson was appointed as a member and as chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Relations with Shareholders 
The Board is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders. The Chief Executive and the Finance 
Director maintain a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year. The executive directors give 
presentations to analysts and hold one-to-one formal meetings with the Group's key shareholders immediately following 
the announcement of the Group's full year and interim results. The Group obtains independent feedback on these 
meetings through its corporate brokers, and this feedback is disclosed to the Board.
The Company responds formally to all queries and requests for information from existing and prospective shareholders. 
In addition, J. Hodson and P .H.B. Pascoe are available to shareholders to ensure that any potential concerns can be 
raised directly. The Group's Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary and interim announcements, trading statements 
and press releases are available on its website at www.ubcmedia.com.
Constructive use of the AGM 
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders. 
Resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and the agenda includes a resolution to adopt the 
Group's Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced after  
the result of the hand votes is known. After the formal business of the Meeting has been concluded, the Chairman 
invites shareholder questions to the Board.