 8
Corporate Governance Statement
As an AIM-listed Company, UBC Media Group plc is not required to
comply with the main provisions of the principles of good governance
and code of best practice contained in the updated version of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in June 2008 (the  Combined Code'). However, the
Company supports the principles of good governance laid down in the
Combined Code and insofar as they are able, for a Company of its size,
the Board complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board
The Company is controlled through a Board of Directors, which at
31 March 2011 comprised two executive directors and three non-executive
directors. Short biographies of each director are set out on page 5.
The role of the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive are separate
and have been so since the Company's formation.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is K F Harrison.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring
its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda. The
Chairman also ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely and
clear information and that there is effective communication with
shareholders. The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of
the other Non-Executive Directors and ensures constructive relations
between executive and non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive's responsibilities are concerned with managing the
Group's business and implementing Group strategy.
The Board's role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of UBC Media
Group within the framework of prudent and effective controls that
enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board is responsible for
setting the Company's strategic aims and for ensuring the financial and
human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives
and to review management performance. The Board is also responsible
for setting the Company's values and standards and ensuring that its
obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Combined Code requires that the Board undertakes a formal annual
evaluation of its performance, its directors and its committees. An
externally facilitated review was done in the current year and the board
expects to do a review in the next financial year.
The Board dispatches its role by holding monthly meetings, at which:
  the monthly management accounts, including budgets and prior year
comparatives, are presented and reviewed;
  strategy is set and policy is debated;
  all significant investment and acquisition opportunities are reviewed
and, if appropriate, approval is given; and
  any proposed changes to internal control and operating policies are
debated.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience and
expertise to the Company's affairs, which allows them to constructively
challenge and help develop proposals and strategy, scrutinise
performance and controls and take decisions objectively in the interests
of the Company.
P H B Pascoe is not considered by the Board to be independent by
virtue of his length of service as a non-executive director of both UBC
Media Group plc and by reason of the significant shareholding in the
Company held by an entity which he is connected with. In addition,
T J Blackmore, by reason of his significant shareholding in the Company
and previous service as an executive director of UBC Media Group, is
not considered by the Board to be independent.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after appointment and at each annual general meeting of the
Company one-third of the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2010 T J Blackmore MBE and
K F  Harrison were re-elected to the Board. Details of directors submitted
for re-election at the forthcoming AGM are provided on page 6.
The Company carries insurance to indemnify directors for claims made
against them in relation to their duties, with the exception of any losses
incurred as a result of their wilful negligence. Cover with an annual limit
of  2 million is maintained.
The Board of Directors meets formally at regular intervals. During the
year the total number of formal meetings of the Board was 12. The
attendance at formal meetings of the Board was as follows:
Number of Board
meetings attended
P H B Pascoe 12
S A Cole 12
J C Falcon 12
T J Blackmore MBE 11
K F Harrison 12
In addition there were a number of informal meetings of the Board.
The Company has adopted the Model Code for Directors' dealings as
applicable to AIM companies.
Financial reporting
The Board places considerable emphasis on ensuring that all
communications with shareholders present a balanced and transparent
assessment of the Group's position and prospects. The Board or a sub-
committee of the Board reviews and approves results announcements,
interim reports, annual reports, the Chairman's AGM statement and
trading updates prior to their release. The directors' statement of
responsibilities in respect of the preparation of financial statements is
set out on page 10 and the Auditor's statement on the respective
responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included within their report
on page 12.
Internal controls and risk management
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal
control to safeguard shareholders' investments and the Company's
assets. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss. In compliance with Provision C.2.2 of the Combined Code, the
Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has
concluded that the internal control systems in place are appropriate for
the size and complexity of the Company.
The Board is also responsible for the identification and evaluation of
major risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate
course of action to manage those risks. The Board has put in place the
procedures necessary to implement and comply with the guidance
 Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' (The
Turnbull Report) (Revised). In accordance with Provision C.2.1 of the
Combined Code, the directors performed a review of the groups control
systems during the financial year. 9 Committees of the Board
The Board has three committees, being the Audit Committee, the
Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee, each of
which operate within defined terms of reference.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of K. F. Harrison as chairman, P H B
Pascoe and T J Blackmore MBE. The Audit Committee has primary
responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of
the Group; reviewing the Group's internal financial controls; ensuring
that the financial performance of the Group is properly measured and
reported on; and for reviewing reports from the Group's auditor relating
to the Group's accounting and internal financial controls. The Finance
Director and other senior management also attend committee meetings
by invitation. The Committee has unrestricted access to the Company's
auditor. The Audit Committee met formally twice during the year. The
Committee reviews arrangements by which staff of the Company may
raise in confidence concerns about improprieties in matters of financial
reporting or other matters and investigates appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee recommends to the Board the appointment, re-
appointment or removal of the external auditor. The Committee
considers all proposals for non-audit services and ensures that these
do not impact on the objectivity and independence of the auditor.
The Audit Committee in its meetings with the external auditor reviews
the safeguards and procedures developed by the auditor to counter
threats or perceived threats to their objectivity and independence and
assess the effectiveness of the external audit.
The group's policy on non-audit services performed by the external
auditor is to address any issues on a case by case basis.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of K F Harrison as chairman, P H
B Pascoe and T J Blackmore MBE. Further details of the Committee's
remit are contained in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 11.
The Remuneration Committee did not formally meet during the year.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for succession planning and
ensuring that all appointments to the Board are objective. The Committee
oversees the selection and appointment of directors, making its
recommendations to the full Board. The Committee meets as and when
required. The Nominations Committee did not meet during the year. The
Committee consists of P H B Pascoe, as Chairman, and S A Cole.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining good communications with
shareholders. The Chief Executive maintained a regular dialogue with
institutional shareholders throughout the year. The executive directors
give presentations to analysts and hold one-to-one formal meetings with
the Group's key shareholders immediately following the announcement
of the Group's full year and interim results. The Group obtains
independent feedback on these meetings through its corporate brokers,
and this feedback is disclosed to the Board.
The Company responds formally to all queries and requests for
information from existing and prospective shareholders. In addition
P H B Pascoe, K F Harrison and T J Blackmore MBE are available to
shareholders to ensure that any potential concerns can be raised
directly. The Group's Annual Report and Accounts, final and interim
announcements, trading statements and press releases are available on
its website at www.ubcmedia.com
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with both
institutional and private shareholders. Resolutions are proposed on each
substantially separate issue and the agenda includes a resolution to
adopt the Group's Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy
votes for and against each resolution are announced after the result of
the hand votes is known. Before the formal business of the Meeting is
undertaken, the Chairman invites shareholders' questions to the Board.