 Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 22
Corporate governance report
   approving and accepting all new committed 
funding facilities;
   approving and accepting major changes 
in the capital structure of the Company;
   reviewing and approving formal treasury 
policies relating to funding, liquidity, 
transactional foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk management;
   reviewing the health and safety and 
environmental performance of the Company;
   approving corporate acquisitions, mergers, 
divestments, joint ventures and major 
capital expenditure; and
   receiving, reviewing and approving 
recommendations by the designated 
committee on matters related to audit, 
nominations and remuneration.
The Board is supplied with information in a 
timely manner and in a form and of a quality 
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. 
The Board has a policy to set out which matters 
are reserved for the decision of the Board and 
those to which the Executive Directors need not 
refer for approval. This policy also requires that 
all recommendations and decisions by a Board 
Committee are approved or ratified by the Board.
Board committees
The Board has established three committees: 
the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee 
and the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive Director is independent. Therefore, 
after detailed consideration, the Board has 
determined that Mr Taylor is the only independent 
Non-executive Director within the meaning 
of the Code.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer are vested in separate individuals, 
each with clear allocation of accountability 
and responsibility. The Chairman has prime 
responsibility for running the Board and the 
Chief Executive Officer has executive 
responsibilities for the Group's strategic 
development, operations and results. The 
structure of the Board and the integrity of each 
Director ensures that there is no one individual 
or group dominating the decision making process.
The role of the Board
The Board holds full meetings at least ten 
times per year, with attendance required in 
person whenever possible. The principal 
matters that it considers are as follows:
   reviewing operating and 
financial performance;
   ensuring that appropriate management 
development and succession plans are 
in place;
   determining corporate strategy, including 
consideration and approval of the Company's 
annual strategy review;
   establishing dividend policy;
Although not required to do so by the AIM 
Listing Rules, the Directors have chosen to 
provide selected corporate governance 
disclosures with this report, which they 
consider to be valuable to the reader.
The Directors believe that effective corporate 
governance, appropriate to the Group considering 
its size and stage of development, will assist in the 
delivery of corporate strategy, the generation 
of shareholder value and the safeguarding of 
shareholders' long-term interests. We do not 
comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code June 2012 (the Code ). However, the 
Directors are committed, wherever it is 
reasonably practicable, to ensure that the 
Group is managed in accordance with the 
principles set out in the Code.
Composition of the Board
The Board comprises the Non-executive 
Chairman, five Non-executive Directors and 
two Executive Directors. Biographical details 
of all members of the Board are set out on 
pages 18 and 19.
Since the flotation of the Company in 2011, no 
equity-based incentives have been granted to 
Non-executive Directors and there are no such 
plans for any such grants in the future. At the 
end of the year, the only Non-executive Director 
with neither shares nor share options is Mr Taylor.
The holding of shares and share options by 
Non-executive Directors could, amongst other 
things, be relevant in determining whether a 
Summary of Board meeting attendance in 2013
The Board is expected to meet regularly on a formal basis ten times a year. 20 Board meetings were held in 2013. Attendance at the meetings was 
as follows:
Scheduled 
meetings
Additional 
meetings
Total meetings
attended
Gordon Campbell 10 (11) 8 (9) 18 (20)
Richard Green 11 (11) 9 (9) 20 (20)
Peter Harverson 11 (11) 9 (9) 20 (20)
Andrew Hopper 11 (11) 7 (9) 18 (20)
J Keith Lomas 10 (11) 8 (9) 18 (20)
Richard Newell 10 (11) 7 (9) 17 (20)
Robert Sansom 8 (11) 8 (9) 16 (20)
Paul Taylor 10 (11) 7 (9) 17 (20)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. Governance
Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 23
Summary of committee membership
Audit 
Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Peter Harverson   Yes Chair
Andrew Hopper Observer Yes Observer
J Keith Lomas Yes Observer Yes
Richard Newell Yes Yes  
Robert Sansom   Chair Yes
Paul Taylor Chair Observer Yes
Gordon Campbell Observer Observer Observer
Richard Green   Observer  
Summary of committee meeting attendance
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Peter Harverson   2 (2) 4 (4)
Andrew Hopper 1 (3) 2 (2) 1 (4)
J Keith Lomas 3 (3) 2 (2) 4 (4)
Richard Newell 3 (3) 2 (2)  
Robert Sansom   2 (2) 4 (4)
Paul Taylor 3 (3) 2 (2) 3 (4)
Gordon Campbell 3 (3) 1 (2) 3 (4)
Richard Green   2 (2)  
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended
The role of each Committee is described in more detail on page 24. Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 24
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility 
for the Group's system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. The risk managing 
process and systems of internal control are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve the Company's objectives. 
It should be recognised that such systems 
can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities 
for the Group's system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. The principal 
features of the system of internal financial 
controls are:
   budgetary control over all operations, 
measuring performance against  
pre-determined targets on at least 
a monthly basis;
   regular forecasting and reviews covering 
trading performance, assets, liabilities, 
cash flows and bank covenants;
   delegated limits of authority covering key 
financial commitments including capital 
expenditure and recruitment; and
   identification and management of key 
business risks.
The Board continually reviews the 
effectiveness of other internal controls, 
including financial, operational, compliance 
controls and risk management.
   identifying and nominating suitable candidates 
to fill vacancies on the Board; and
   reviewing succession planning for both 
Directors and the management team.
During the period under review, the Committee 
has met twice on a formal basis. The Committee 
is expected to meet formally twice a year.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has 
responsibility for the following matters:
   setting the basic pay of Executive Directors 
and the remuneration of the Chairman;
   operating the performance related bonus 
plan for the Executive Directors;
   agreeing the allocation and term for the 
granting of share-based incentives to 
Executive Directors; and
   overseeing the overall annual staff pay review 
and the operation of the equity-based 
incentive schemes.
The Group has a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing policy on Directors' 
remuneration. No Director is involved in 
deciding his own remuneration.
The Committee aims to set levels of 
remuneration for Executive Directors that 
are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate 
directors of the quality required, without paying 
more than necessary, and that are appropriate 
for the size and complexity of the Group. It aims 
to see that a significant proportion of each 
executive director's remuneration package 
is performance related.
During the period under review, the 
Committee has met four times on a formal 
basis. The Committee is expected to meet 
formally twice a year.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has responsibility for the 
following matters:
   reviewing the accounts and the key 
judgements and policies underlying them 
in relation to the interim and annual financial 
statements before they are submitted to the 
Board for final approval;
   reviewing management's reports on 
internal controls;
   reviewing the Group's risk management 
process, including the adequacy of 
insurance cover;
   reviewing the appointment of the external 
auditors together with the audit fee;
   monitoring the audit and non-audit work 
of the external auditors, including reviewing 
any management letters and the Company's 
response; and 
   reviewing the arrangements by which staff 
may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties.
As part of its procedures, the Committee 
discusses the interim and annual financial 
statements with the external auditors. When 
appropriate, non-Committee members are 
invited to attend. During the period under 
review, the Committee has met three times 
on a formal basis excluding meetings of the 
Chairman with external advisors. The Committee 
is expected to meet formally four times a year.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee has responsibility 
for the following matters:
   reviewing the size and composition 
of the Board;
Corporate governance report continued