 ATTENDANCE
Kees Storm 4 / 4
Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee
Ann Fudge 2 / 2
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2 / 2
Michael Treschow 4 / 4
Paul Walsh 2 / 2
The composition of the Committee changed after the 2013 AGMs. This 
table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for the 
year ended 31 December 2013. If Directors are unable to attend a 
meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda 
items with the Committee Chairman. Attendance is expressed as the 
number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
 	 Board, Committee and Director performance 
evaluation process
 	 Rotation of Directors on Board Committees
 	 Review of relevant legislative and corporate 
governance changes
 	 Review of Board Diversity Policy
 	 Continued focus on Director succession
 	 External Board Evaluation
 	 Active participation in relevant regulatory 
consultations
 	 Tracking gender metrics
COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013
PRIORITIES FOR 2014
MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
comprises two Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is chaired by Kees Storm. The composition of the Committee 
changed after the AGMs in May 2013 when both Paul Walsh and 
Ann Fudge left the Committee. At that time, Kees Storm took over 
the Chairmanship of the Committee from Paul Walsh. The other 
members are Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Michael Treschow. The 
Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. The 
Committee met four times in 2013. All Committee members 
attended the meetings they were eligible to attend. Other 
attendees at Committee meetings (or part thereof) were the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer and the Group Secretary. 
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and 
drawing up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning and 
appointment procedures. Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
offer themselves for election each year at the Annual General 
Meetings. The Committee is responsible for recommending 
candidates for nomination as Executive Directors (including the 
Chief Executive Officer) and Non-Executive Directors each year, 
based on the process of evaluations referred to below. After 
Directors have been appointed by shareholders, the Committee 
recommends to the Boards candidates for election as Chairman 
and Vice-Chairman/Senior Independent Director. During the year, 
the Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive Officer on 
the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior 
management. It also keeps oversight of all matters relating to 
corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the 
Boards. The Committee's terms of reference are contained in  The 
Governance of Unilever' and are also available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
PROCESS FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS
Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards,
the Board Committees and the individual Directors. The 
Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman/Senior 
Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards 
assess their own performance. Each of the Directors also has an 
interview with the Chairman to discuss individual performance. 
The outcomes of the Board and individual evaluations are 
provided to the Committee when it discusses the nominations for 
re-election of Directors.
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may seek 
the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external 
experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills 
and expertise. The Committee reviews candidates presented by 
the recruitment firm, or recommended by Directors and 
members of the Unilever Leadership Executive, and all members 
of the Committee are involved in the interview process before 
making their recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed profile 
of Unilever's Boards of Directors, which takes into account the roles 
of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch and UK Corporate 
Governance Codes. The agreed Board profile, contained in  The 
Governance of Unilever', which can be found on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance, includes 
that the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive 
Directors who should be independent of Unilever and free from any 
conflicts of interest. With respect to composition and qualities of 
the Boards, they should be in keeping with the size of Unilever, its 
portfolio, culture and geographical spread and its status as a listed 
company. The objective pursued by the Boards is to have a variety 
of age, gender, expertise, social background and nationality and, 
wherever possible, the Boards should reflect Unilever's consumer 
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE base and take into account the footprint and strategy of the Group. 
The desired experience and expertise set out in the Board profile 
can be found opposite. 
 
The Boards recognise the benefits of diversity throughout the 
Group, including gender balance. The Committee reviewed and 
considered relevant recommendations on diversity and is pleased 
that over 40% of our Non-Executive Directors are women. 
However, Unilever feels that gender is only one part of diversity, 
and Unilever Directors will continue to be selected on the basis of 
their wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge 
and insight.
It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become 
a Non-Executive Director of another company and that such an 
appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where 
relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge 
and experience to the benefit of the Group (see page 40 for details 
in the Directors' biographies).
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR
The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGMs in May 2013 and, as 
three of the Non-Executive Directors were due to complete nine 
years of service in 2015, proposed the nominations of Laura Cha, 
Mary Ma and John Rishton as new Non-Executive Directors at the 
2013 AGMs. The Committee then continued during the year to 
consider succession planning for the Boards. 
The Committee undertook a review of Committee memberships 
and recommended to the Boards changes to the membership of 
all Committees. The Boards approved these recommendations 
and the new Committees were effective from the 2013 AGMs.
Revised standard terms of appointment for Non-Executive 
Directors containing provisions to promote the success of the 
company in accordance with the latest requirements of UK and 
Dutch company law and best practice guidelines and updated 
language on tenure of appointment, termination and fees were 
signed by all Non-Executive Directors in May 2013.
For our internal Board evaluation this year, Unilever again used 
Thinking Board, the web-based governance self-assessment 
service from Independent Audit. This provided an added external 
perspective when considering our approach and Independent 
Audit challenged us on the questions used and helped us to 
analyse the results. Further information on this evaluation can be 
found on page 44. The results of this year's evaluation were 
discussed at the November 2013 Board meetings. In 2014, an 
externally facilitated evaluation will be carried out. 
During the year, the Committee undertook a review of the 
Committee's terms of reference to ensure they remained in line 
with relevant guidelines. The amended terms became effective on 
1 January 2014.
The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the 
Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and 
each has concluded that the Committee is performing effectively.
Kees Storm
Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee
Sir Malcolm Rifkind
Michael Treschow
PROFILE OF UNILEVER'S BOARDS OF DIRECTORS
DESIRED EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE
In view of Unilever's objectives and activities, it is important 
that the Boards have sufficient financial literacy, have at least 
one financial expert and are composed in such a way that the 
following expertise and experience are present in one or
more of its members:
 	 Executive management experience and knowledge of 
corporate governance issues at main board level with a 
company comparable in size and international spread of 
activities with multiple stock exchange listings;
 	 Understanding of human resources and remuneration in 
large international companies;
 	 Experience in financial administration, accounting policies 
and internal control;
 	 Risk management of multinationals with share listings;
 	 Understanding of the markets where Unilever is active;
 	 Experience in and understanding of the fast-moving 
consumer goods (FMCG) market;
 	 Knowledge of marketing and commercial expertise;
 	 Awareness of corporate social responsibility issues; and
 	 Experience with R&D in those fields where Unilever is 
active.
PROFILE
This profile guides the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee and the Boards on the occasion
of the nomination of Directors. It is reviewed and updated by 
the Boards periodically. 
59 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance