 Corporate governance
Introduction
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate
governance, and is responsible for the systems and procedures by
which the Group is directed and controlled. The directors believe that
they govern the Group in the best interests of the shareholders,
taking into account the interests of other 'stakeholders' in the Group,
including in particular customers and employees. The directors
confirm that they have continued to ensure that the Group applies
and maintains the principles of good corporate governance. 
This statement, together with the report on directors' remuneration
set out on pages 19 to 23, describes how the principles of corporate
governance set out in the Combined Code have been applied within
the Group.
Compliance
The Board confirms that throughout the year to 3 May 2003, 
the Group has complied fully with all the provisions of section 1 
of the Combined Code, with the following exceptions:
  the audit committee consists of two non-executive directors, not
three as required by the Combined Code. The Board considers this
to be appropriate for the size of the Group and that the two non-
executive directors have the necessary experience to provide
effective, independent judgement to the audit committee 
  given the size of the Company and the composition of the 
Board, the directors consider it inappropriate to establish a
nominations committee
The Board
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, approval of
major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant
financing matters. It monitors the exposure to key business risks
and reviews the direction of the business, its annual budget,
progress towards the achievement of that budget and its capital
expenditure programmes. At each meeting, the Board considers
reports from each executive director, the company secretary and
branch and operations managers in the Group.
The Board comprises four executive directors and two non-executive
directors (including the non-executive chairman who is responsible
for running the Board). The non-executive directors are independent
of management and free from any business or other relationship
that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement. Their brief biographies appear on page 14. A N Foster is
the senior independent non-executive director .
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and
clearly defined. The non-executive directors are a source of
independent advice and judgement, bringing considerable
knowledge and experience to the Board's deliberations. All directors
have access to the services of the company secretary who is
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are met.
There is an agreed procedure whereby directors wishing to take
independent advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at
the Group's expense. 
Newly appointed directors, who are holding a directorship in a listed
company for the first time, are given appropriate external training
and a full information pack setting out their responsibilities as
directors.
The Board meets eleven times throughout the year, reviewing
trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and
monitoring of strategy, setting the budget, approving major capital
expenditure items and reporting to shareholders. The company
secretary distributes briefing papers to all directors in advance of
Board meetings. The Board has a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for it for decision purposes. 
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity following their appointment by the Board. Subsequently,
they must seek re-election no less than every three years. In each
year, one third of the Board retires and offers themselves for 
re-election in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association.
The names of the directors submitted for election or re-election are
given on page 18. 
The non-executive directors' letters of appointment are for a three-
year term and have a notice period of three months. B T Chudasama
has a one-year rolling contract. M C Hynes, P J Goodright and 
A F Somerville have six-month rolling contracts.
The Board has established certain committees, to which it has
delegated specific responsibility, as described below. 
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is comprised entirely of the non-
executive directors and has written terms of reference to determine
on behalf of the Board the executive remuneration and determines
the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the
executive directors and senior management, including performance
related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation
payments. The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of
the non-executive directors. The committee meets as required and
met seven times in the year .
Further detail of the Group's remuneration policy is given on 
page 19.
Audit committee
The audit committee is comprised entirely of the non-executive
directors and has written terms of reference and reviews the draft
financial statements prior to submission to the Board. The
committee meets on not less than two occasions annually and
provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors.
Meetings are also attended by invitation by the chief executive and
Group finance director . The committee is also responsible for
advising the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and
for considering the levels of fees for external auditors including the
split between audit and non-audit work.
24 Universal Salvage plc Annual report and accounts 2003 25 Universal Salvage plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Risk management committee
The risk management committee consists of the two non-executive
directors, the information systems director, the company secretary,
a representative of the Group finance department and other
members from various levels of Group management as appropriate.
The risk management committee reviews the business risk profile of
the Group and assesses the management of those risks. The risk
management committee reports both to the Board and the audit
committee. 
Investor relations 
The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good relations
with its shareholders. There is regular dialogue with both private
and institutional investors, including presentations by certain
members of the Board after the Company's preliminary
announcement of the year end results and the announcement of the
results at the half year . Site visits by institutional shareholders are
encouraged as they enhance investors understanding of our
business and processes.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet the directors at the
Annual General Meeting in September of each year and the Board
welcomes their attendance and participation.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with any related
documents will be mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days
before the meeting. It is the Company's practice to propose separate
resolutions at the Annual General Meeting on each separate issue.
The level of proxies lodged together with the balance for and against
each resolution will be announced after it has been dealt with on a
show of hands (unless a poll is called for). Copies of the details of
the proxy voting will be available to shareholders after the meeting
on receipt of a written request addressed to the company secretary
at the registered office. 
Internal controls 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group's system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is
designed to manage rather than eliminate those risks associated
with the achievement of business objectives and by its nature can
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. 
The Group has no formal internal audit function, but the Group's
operations are subject to a regular programme of audit and risk
assessment, including financial, environmental, health and safety
and operational areas. This ensures that senior management and
the Board review and reflect upon the overall risk profile facing the
business and that all key risks receive the appropriate level of
management attention on an ongoing basis. 
The executive directors have a significant involvement in the day to
day management of the Group's activities and are, therefore able to
monitor the control procedures at an operational and financial level,
on an ongoing basis.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view
to providing effective internal control are as follows:
  the status of all potential and actual contracts are reported to and
reviewed by the Board at each monthly meeting
  the risk management committee has responsibility for assessing
Group risk management activities. The committee reports to the
Board by the committee's board members and reporting
procedures
  management submit Board reports with appropriate and timely
information. These include actual results against budgeted results
plus updated forecasts and regular reporting and review of the key
business variables
  the definition of authorisation limits, financial and otherwise
  a capital expenditure authorisation procedure requiring written
approval by the executive directors
  the audit committee monitors the controls which are in force and
any perceived gaps in the control environment. The committee also
considers and determines relevant action regarding any control
issues raised by management, or external auditors
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
control as it operated during the year .
Going concern
The directors consider that, after making appropriate enquiry and at
the time of approving these financial statements, the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. The directors therefore continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 