 16 Annual Report 2007
Corporate Governance Statement
Introduction
Axis Intermodal plc is an AIM Listed company and while the 
AIM rules do not require the group to comply with any specific 
Corporate Governance principles, the group adopts generally 
accepted corporate governance good practice wherever size 
and resources permit.
The Board
The Group is managed by the Board of Directors, which 
comprised no less than six members during the year and which 
met regularly during the year. The Board has an established 
schedule of matters reserved for their specific approval, which 
include responsibility for the overall Group strategy, acquisition 
and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure and 
consideration of significant financial matters.  The Board also 
reviews the strategic direction of the Group and its individual 
operating subsidiaries, their annual budgets, their progress 
towards achievement of these budgets and their capital 
expenditure programmes. 
The Chairman is responsible for supervising and directing the 
Board in setting and directing the Group's strategy, ensuring 
its effective control of the Group's businesses and monitoring 
the achievement of objectives and best practice. The Chief 
Executive's role is to manage the Group on the Board's behalf. 
Stephen Dexter has agreed to join the Board as a non-executive 
director with effect from 1 May 2008. Mr Dexter retired as a 
partner of Grant Thornton LLP on 30 June 2007. Further details 
regarding Mr Dexter are set out in the Chairman's Statement.
All Board members have access, at all times, to sufficient 
information about the business to enable them to discharge their 
duties fully. Also, procedures exist covering the circumstances 
under which the directors may need to obtain independent 
professional advice.
The performance of each director is appraised by the relevant 
other directors on a formal basis at least once per calendar year.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association 
the two longest serving directors since their appointment or 
reappointment are seeking re-election at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. 
Board Committees
The Board has established two committees to fulfil the specific 
functions described below. The minutes of all committee 
meetings are distributed to all directors. During the period 
under review George Canvin and Stephen Ball, were the only 
members of the committees, however, the other directors are 
invited to attend where appropriate. Both Committees have 
formal written terms of reference which are published on the 
Company's website.
The Audit Committee, chaired by George Canvin, is 
responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters, 
including the Group's accounting policies, internal management 
and financial controls and the Group's half year and annual 
accounts prior to their submission to the Board. The Audit 
Committee also considers the appointment and fees of the 
external auditors and discusses the audit scope as well as 
the findings and management letters arising from audits. The 
Committee met twice during the period.
The audit committee reviews the nature and extent of non-
audit services supplied by the external auditors to the Group, 
seeking to balance objectivity and value for money.
In determining the policy, the audit committee has taken into 
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm, and does not 
agree to the auditor providing a service if, having regard to the 
ethical guidance, the result is that:
1	 the	exter nal	auditor	audits	its	o wn	fir m' s	w or k;
2  the external auditor makes management decisions for the 
Group;
3	 a	m utuality	of	interest	is	created; 	or
4  the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Group.
The external auditor has provided non-audit services to the Group 
during the year.  The Audit Committee is satisfied that the objectivity 
and independence of the auditor has not been compromised.
The Remuneration Committee, also chaired during the 
period under review by George Canvin, meets as required during 
the year to review the Group's general policy on executive 
remuneration, the application of the policy to the remuneration 
and benefits of the executive directors and to recommend 
and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior 
management.
The Remuneration Committee Report contains a more 
detailed description of the Group's policies and procedures 
for executive remuneration. The Executive Chairman and the 
Company Secretary, as appropriate, attend meetings of the 
Committee but they do not participate in discussions on their 
own remuneration. The Committee met four times during the 
year and also passed one written resolution.
P L E A S E U S E C E L L 
STYLES FOR TABLES
COLUMN WIDTH = 20MM
PLEASE MAKE FILL OF 
THE LATEST COLUMN 
30% OF BLACK
F O R H A N G I N G PA R S 
PLEASE SUBTRACT 1MM 
FROM THE CELL INDENT
c98452BOOK.indb   16 28/5/08   12:12:31 17 Axis  Intermodal plc
Relations with shareholders
The Group's aim is to provide information to shareholders 
and the financial market with clarity and openness on a regular 
and on-going basis in order to assist in the investment decision 
process. Accordingly, procedures are continuously reviewed to 
ensure that they are kept in line with current best practice. 
The Group's website provides full information on the business, 
results and personnel and is used for updating the market with key 
developments and announcements (www.axisintermodal.com).
All shareholders are required to receive at least 21 clear days' 
notice of the Annual General Meeting, which all directors intend to 
attend and be available to answer shareholders' questions. Separate 
resolutions on each substantially separate issue will be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting and details of all proxy votes will be 
made available in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that there is an ongoing 
process to ensure that business risks are formally considered, 
assessed and monitored. T o this end, the Board has established 
internal control systems and procedures which are designed to 
ensure effective and efficient operations, including financial reporting 
and compliance with laws and regulations, the effectiveness of 
which is monitored by the Board. In establishing and reviewing the 
internal controls, the directors take account of the materiality of the 
relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of 
control.  The Board acknowledges that systems of internal control 
can only ever manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement. 
The Group currently does not have an internal audit function.  The 
Board has considered the absence of such a function and, given the 
current size and structure of the Group, does not believe that the 
creation of an internal audit function would benefit the Group.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the directors 
have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS's), as adopted by the European Union, and the Company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). The financial statements are required by 
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the Group at the end of the year and of the 
Group profit or loss for the year then ended. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
 	 	 select	 suitab le	 accounting	 policies	 and	 then	 appl y	 them	
consistentl y;
 	 	 mak e 	 judgments 	 and 	 estimates 	 that 	 are 	 reasonab le 	 and 	 prudent;
 	 	 state	 whether	 applicab le	 accounting	 standards	 ha v e	 been	
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained	in	the	financial	statements; 	and
 	 	 prepare	 the	 financial	 statements	 on	 the	 going	 concer n	 basis	
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
1985 and the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
In so far as the directors are aware:
 	 	 there	 is	 no	 relevant	 inf or mation	 of	 which	 the	 Group' s	 auditor	
is	una ware; 	and
 	 	 the	 director s	 ha v e	 tak en	 all	 steps	 that	 they	 ought	 to	 ha v e	
taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish the auditor is aware of that 
information. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Group's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Nicholas Smith
Company Secretary
29 April 2008
c98452BOOK.indb   17 28/5/08   12:12:31