 Business review
45 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate responsibility
Our corporate Code of Business Conduct, introduced in August 2010, codified that the 
corporation's relationships with employees, the environment, the surrounding community, 
and stakeholders, are paramount. In that context, corporate responsibility has been a 
fundamental aspect of the cultural transformation under way at Volex.
Training programmes were still focused primarily on the 
production workforce, bringing them up to speed on new 
processes, more advanced tooling and machinery, and quality 
concerns. As additional IT investments are made in FY2013, 
additional training across other functions will be facilitated 
in order to optimise the return on those investments.
Health and safety
Health and safety aren't merely a corporate responsibility. 
They are a core business value, a matter of protecting assets. 
Thus, the Company-wide commitment to health and safety 
resonates on both a social and a pragmatic level: Volex is a 
healthier Company when it looks after the health and welfare 
of its people.
In the second year of a codified health and safety policy, 
the Group has seen continued improvement, both in its ability 
to monitor and review health and safety performance, and in 
the quantifiable results of the policy as risks are more accurately 
identified and addressed. As risks continue to be assessed and 
analysed, the Group will be able to develop and implement 
highly targeted safety initiatives, producing more efficient and 
effective results.
Relationship with the environment
Volex takes its responsibility to the environment very seriously. 
What's more, we recognise that there are several facets to being 
environmentally responsible. The working conditions inside our 
facilities require just as much attention as the impact our 
operations have on the natural environment outside our locations. 
Thus, for instance, as we recently undertook a major expansion 
and renovation of the manufacturing facility in Henggang, China, 
we installed new air-cooling and air-cleaning technologies to 
provide a cleaner and more controlled working environment. 
The expansion also enabled the Group to meet growing 
China-based customer demand from a local facility, thus 
reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that accompany 
long-distance shipping.
Our policy development and implementation work continues as 
we drive change in operational practices throughout our system 
and all our production facilities. The management-practice 
framework adopted last year is meshing with the Group-wide 
transformation to a culture of continuous improvement. 
Every Volex facility, therefore, is continually on the lookout for 
opportunities to reduce environmental impact. Operations 
continue to evolve as our LEAN manufacturing initiative is more 
deeply adopted, reducing waste through more efficient 
production as well as reductions in defective and damaged 
product. The result is an holistic approach that addresses 
environmental concerns on multiple levels and from 
various angles.
This has been the first full year under the guidance of the Group's 
Code of Business Conduct. There has been considerable 
investment in employee training, which has substantially 
upgraded production capabilities and reduced staff attrition. 
There have been decreased environmental impacts, largely 
through incipient reductions in waste. Commitment to the 
surrounding community is found not only through employee 
involvement in community life, but also in a new venture to provide 
job-transition training. Finally, the Group's responsibility to various 
stakeholder groups manifested on several different fronts. 
Relationship with the employees
To act on the Group's corporate responsibility to employees 
requires having the infrastructure in place to enable those 
actions. In FY2012 the corporate Human Resources (HR) function 
has seen particular strengthening in Asia where approximately 
6,000 of Volex's 8,000 employees are located, in line with the 
precepts of the Code of Business Conduct. This has enabled 
employee programmes to be tailored to the specific needs of the 
region. In FY2013 a HR director will be appointed in the United 
States to support another area with a growing representation.
Localised HR officers better enable Volex to negotiate the delicate 
balance between fundamental corporate mandates and the 
culture and customs of a region. This is a particularly crucial 
balance as the  One Volex' cultural transformation continues 
throughout the Company, and as new processes and more 
rigorous customer specifications create new and often greater 
demands on employees. Many changes in Volex practices have 
been designed to provide greater job fulfilment for employees, 
which is critical to enabling higher performance. 
Communications and training 
It is a huge advantage in the labour market, especially for 
production workers, if they can be made to feel a part of the 
Company and not just doing a job. To that end, the Group is 
creating more extensive internal communications. In FY2012, 
regional newsletters were launched to communicate with our 
Chinese employees. Efforts will soon be under way to begin an 
internal newsletter that will increase our employees' appreciation 
of the role they play in our global company.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
46 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Compliance with a range of universally accepted environmental 
regulations and certifications is another part of the Volex strategy 
for environmental sensitivity. Through the end of FY2012, all but 
one of the Group's production facilities had met the requirements 
in the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System - and that 
last facility will reach ISO 14001 compliance during FY2013.
Finally, the Group is still making strides to reduce the use of 
hazardous materials in production. For instance, Volex has 
continued to develop its expertise in working with halogen-free 
materials in order to support the more environmentally sensitive 
customers who insist on its use, and looks for opportunities to 
move other existing clients to using halogen-free materials in their 
products. In the case of other materials, the Group is strenuously 
committed to following known legislation and regulatory 
requirements in every region we work in. These include the 
Restrictions of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive and the 
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical 
substances (REACH) regulation. Volex also aligns operations with 
the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) regulations 
and assists our customers in achieving compliance as well.
The Board regards responsible corporate behaviour in respect 
of environmental, social and governance (ESG ) matters as an 
integral part of the overall governance framework and believes 
that it should be fully integrated into management structures and 
systems. Further information on this is included in the Corporate 
Governance Report (Internal controls section) in this document. 
Therefore the risk management policies, procedures and 
monitoring methods described in that section apply equally to the 
identification, evaluation and control of Volex's safety, ethical and 
environmental risks and opportunities.
Relationship with the community
Volex has always encouraged its employees to be active 
participants in the life of their community - sponsoring sports 
teams, volunteering with local organisations, contributing with 
their time, energy and even finances to local social causes. It is 
a point of corporate pride that when recruiting we employ local 
staff as much as possible.
This past year has seen new initiatives to support local 
communities. For instance, the Group's Vietnamese production 
facility is an active member of the Social Responsibility Committee 
of Thang Long Industrial Park in Hanoi. Among the activities they 
supported or participated in this past year were scholarships 
awarded to 96 students graduating from local schools, installation 
of kindergarten playgrounds in two communities, and the building 
of a road connecting one village to a national highway.
Relationship with the stakeholders
The Group's business is built on the confidence and commitment 
of our stakeholders. Whether they are investing in us, buying from 
us, or selling to us, those relationships are crucial to the success 
of Volex - as a business, and as a responsible corporation.
Shareholders
As Volex's business model has become more strategic and 
sophisticated in recent years, Investor Relations has taken on 
greater import. The Group sees its investor community as active 
partners in the transformation being undertaken and efforts 
are under way to engage our shareholders more regularly 
and routinely through an expanded communications programme.
Customers
Volex's customers are corporations, and have their own corporate 
responsibility positions. As vital and trusted partners of the Group, 
they can directly influence the approach Volex takes through their 
processes for awarding contracts. So it is incumbent on the Group 
to adopt the most rigorous corporate responsibility policies in 
preparation for customers who may demand a certain 
sustainable approach or environmental prerequisite. By being 
proactive around corporate responsibility issues, Volex not only is 
a better partner to its customers, but also modelling the behaviour 
of an industry leader.
Suppliers
 Supply-chain integration' has now taken on a much richer 
and more nuanced definition: more than mere integration of 
systems and processes, it now also encompasses a dovetailing of 
corporate values. Thus, in the same way that Volex has proactively 
taken on higher-level positions of corporate responsibility, it 
expects suppliers to also apply greater rigour to the way they 
do business: in part, because it is the right way to do business; 
and in part, because the only way Volex can meet the corporate-
responsibility criteria of its own customers is to get its suppliers 
aligned with the Group's own corporate-responsibility positions 
and initiatives. To that end, Volex has continued its Supply Chain 
Excellence programme and carries out extensive annual audits of 
supplier practices, policies and processes, insisting on corrective 
action for those suppliers who do not meet baseline criteria.
Corporate responsibility 
continued