 16 Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
Introduction
The Board's overriding objective is to ensure that the Group 
delivers long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders.
Compliance
As Volga Gas plc is listed on AIM, it is neither required to comply with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code that was published in September 
2012 by the Financial Reporting Council (the Code) nor issue a 
statement of compliance with it. Nevertheless, the Board fully 
supports the principles set out in the Code and seeks to follow these 
as best practice wherever this is appropriate; having regard to the size 
of the Company, the resources available to it and the interpretation 
of the Code in the Quoted Companies Alliance Corporate Governance 
Code for Small and Mid-sized Quoted Companies.
Details are provided below of how the Company applies the 
elements of the Code that are deemed appropriate.
Board of directors
Role of the Board
The Board's role is to provide leadership to the Group within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to 
be assessed and managed. The Board sets the Group's strategic 
aims and ensures that the necessary financial and human resources 
are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, and reviews 
management's performance in meeting these objectives. The 
Board sets and monitors the Group's values and standards and 
ensures that the Group's obligations to shareholders and other 
stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval, including:
   Strategic and policy considerations
   Annual budget, including capital expenditure
   Interim and final financial statements
   Management structure and appointments
   Mergers, acquisitions, disposals
   Capital raising
   Significant changes in accounting policies
   Appointment or removal of directors or the company secretary
Board composition
The Board currently comprises two executive directors and five 
non-executive directors, of whom three are deemed to be 
independent and two non-independent:
   Aleksey Kalinin - Non-Executive Chairman
   Mikhail Ivanov - Executive Director and CEO
   Tony Alves - Executive Director, CFO and Company Secretary
   Ronald Freeman - Independent Non-Executive
   Stephen Ogden - Independent Non-Executive
   Vladimir Koshcheev - Independent Non-Executive
   Michael Calvey - Non-Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the executive 
and non-executive directors.
Board balance and independence
The Board recognises that Messrs Kalinin and Calvey are not 
independent by virtue of their direct management responsibilities 
for the limited partnerships comprising Baring Vostok Private 
Equity Funds III and IV, the Company's controlling shareholder 
(Controlling Shareholder ). However, in light of the value, 
experience and contacts which they afford to the Company at this 
stage of its development and by virtue of the Relationship 
Agreement, which, inter alia, ensures that the Controlling 
Shareholder does not exercise undue influence over the Company 
or prevent it from acting independently of the Controlling 
Shareholder, the Board believes that the continued presence of 
Messrs Kalinin and Calvey on the board is beneficial for the 
Company. Mr Kalinin also serves as Chairman of the Board and was 
not considered to be independent on his appointment.
Notwithstanding under the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code as a Smaller Company the Company meets the 
requirements to have at least two independent non-executives on 
the Board.
All directors are permitted access to independent professional 
advice in the course of execution of their duties, at the Company's 
expense.
The Board has established the following committees:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee was appointed in March 2007 and comprises 
three directors:
Mr Ogden - Chairman
Mr Freeman
Mr Calvey
The Audit Committee is responsible for selecting the Group's 
independent auditors, pre-approving all audit and non-audit related 
services, reviewing with management and the independent auditors 
the Group's financial statements, significant accounting and financial 
policies and practices, audit scope and adequacy of internal audit 
and control systems. The Audit Committee keeps the independence 
and objectivity of the auditor under review and a formal statement 
of independence is received from the external auditor each year. The 
audit committee meets at least twice each year.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was also appointed in March 2007 
and comprises three directors:
Mr Freeman - Chairman
Mr Ogden
Mr Kalinin
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
performance of the directors and for determining compensation  
of the Company's key employees, including the chief executive 
officer, chief financial officer, and other key personnel as may be 
determined from time to time by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice each year.
The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out on pages 21 to 22.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was appointed in March 2007 and 
comprises three directors:
Mr Freeman - Chairman
Mr Ogden
Mr Calvey
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
structure, size and composition of the Board, making 
recommendations to the Board concerning plans for succession for 
both executive and non-executive directors including the Chief 
Executive and other senior management, preparing a description 
of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment 
and identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board positions as 
and when they arise. VOLGA GAS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17
Board meetings
The Board met four times during the year ended 31 December 
2013 (2012: five times) with the following attendance:
2013 2012
Aleksey Kalinin 4 5
Mikhail Ivanov 4 6
Tony Alves 4 6
Ronald Freeman 3 6
Stephen Ogden 4 6
Vladimir Koshcheev 4 4
Michael Calvey 4 6
Indemnification of directors
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and to 
the extent permitted by the law of England and Wales, directors 
are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their office. In respect of those matters for 
which the directors may not be indemnified, the Company 
maintained a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy 
throughout the financial year. This policy has been renewed for the 
next financial year.
Re-election of directors
The Company requires that all directors stand for re  election at 
intervals of no more than three years. Accordingly Messrs Alves, 
Freeman and Ogden will retire at the forthcoming AGM and will 
seek re-election by shareholders.
Internal controls
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system of 
internal controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, and  
not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be 
detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
is eliminated.
The Group's risk and controls framework covers all material risks 
and controls including those of an operational, financial, and 
compliance nature. Internal control procedures consist, inter alia,  
of formal delegations of expenditure authority by the Board to 
executive management, and controls relating to key stages of 
transactions including supplier approval, contract signature, and 
payment release.
The directors consider that the frequency of Board meetings and 
level of detail presented to the Board for its consideration in 
relation to the operations of the Group provide an appropriate 
process to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks relevant 
to its operations on a continuous basis, and this process is 
considered to be in accordance with the revised guidance on 
internal control published in October 2005 (Turnbull Guidance ).
In addition to formal Board meetings, management prepare 
detailed financial and operational reports on a monthly basis which 
is disseminated and discussed within the Board.
Investor relations
The Company places considerable importance on communication 
with shareholders and engages them on a wide range of issues.  
The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings 
between the executive directors and institutional investors, fund 
managers and analysts. At these meetings a wide range of relevant 
issues including strategy, performance, management and 
governance are discussed within the constraints of the information 
already made public.
The Company is equally interested in the views and concerns of 
private shareholders and to this end ensures that the executive 
directors present the Company at forums where private investors 
are present.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board 
at the AGM which will be held on 6 June 2014, at which the 
chairman, the chairman of the Audit Committee and all executive 
directors will be available. The notice of the AGM is posted to all 
shareholders at least 21 working days before the meeting. Financial 
and other information is available on the Company's website 
(www.volgagas.com).
By order of the Board
Tony Alves
Company Secretary
31 March 2014