 20 Axon
Report on corporate governance
The Combined Code The Board fully acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness and
regular review of the Group's internal control systems. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority,
this statement, together with the Directors' remuneration report, set out on pages 22 to 24, explains how Axon has
applied The Principles of Good Governance set out by the Financial Services Authority in Section 1 of the Combined
Code and reports on the Group's compliance with the provisions contained in the Code of Best Practice throughout 
the period under review and to the date of approval of these financial statements.
The Board The Board of directors comprises an independent non-executive Chairman, two other independent 
non-executive directors and an executive director who is the Chief Executive Officer. The profiles of the current directors
are set out on pages 16 and 17.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the
day-to-day running of the business, including the implementation of board strategy. In 2003, the CEO is the sole
executive director on the Board, although it is anticipated that a second executive director will be appointed when a
suitable candidate has been identified.
The Chairman and the other non-executive directors contribute a wide range of skills and experience, forming a strong
and independent element within the Board. Their opinions carry significant weight in the decision-making process, 
both operational and financial, and they are free from any business relationships that could interfere with their
independent judgement.
Kelvin Harrison remains the nominated senior independent non-executive director to whom concerns may be conveyed.
The Board meets at regular intervals throughout the year (11 times in 2002) and has reserved for its consideration
matters including the responsibility for the overall strategy of the Group, acquisitions, divestments, significant capital
expenditure projects and any major financial proposals. The Board assesses exposure to key business risks, considers
environmental, health and safety and employee matters (including codes of conduct) and key senior appointments.
Appropriate information, both operational and financial, is provided to the Board in a timely manner to enable it to
discharge its duties. The Board ensures that all directors receive appropriate training, as required, and that they are 
able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties. 
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years in accordance with the Combined Code.
Board committees The Company has formally established audit, remuneration, and operations committees. The current
membership of the committees is shown on page 17. It remains the Board's view that the Company is not yet large
enough to justify the formation of a separate nominations committee and it is considered the responsibility of the Board
as a whole to ensure the suitability of appointees. As reported in the 2001 annual report, consideration had been given to
the setting up of an investment committee. However, following a full review, the Board decided to divest the holdings in
both quoted and unquoted investments and in the circumstances, establishment of the committee was not progressed.
The audit committee comprises all three non-executive directors and is chaired by Kelvin Harrison. The executive
directors may attend meetings of the committee by invitation. The audit committee meets at least twice during the year.
Its terms of reference are to monitor the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls, to review the scope of the external
audit and to review the interim and annual financial statements, focusing particular attention on accounting policies 
and financial reporting compliance. It meets with the external auditors to review their plan for the audit, to discuss any
matters arising from their audit visits and any reports that they may produce. In addition, the auditors have direct access
to the committee should they need to raise any concerns. The committee also reviews the level of services provided 
to the Group by the auditors to monitor their independence and objectivity and the scope and results of the audit. 
The Chairman of the audit committee reports to the Board on the progress of the committee meetings and minutes 
are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Kelvin Harrison and comprises all three non-executive directors. 
The committee meets when necessary during the year to review remuneration policy and to determine the remuneration
packages of the executive directors and key senior management. It also approves proposals for the granting of share
options to employees of the Group. The minutes of the remuneration committee are circulated to and reviewed by the
Board. The Directors' remuneration report is set out on pages 22 to 24.
The operations committee is chaired by the CEO and during 2002 comprised of the CFO and three key senior managers.
The committee met at least every two weeks to consider financial performance, review of budgets and forecasts, capital
expenditure proposals and any management issues. Significant matters arising from such meetings were reported to the
Board and key senior managers were invited to present at Board meetings on financial and operating performance, new
initiatives, business and employee development and planning matters, as appropriate. 21 Axon Report on corporate governance
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains a regular dialogue with fund managers, other investors and
analysts, usually following the announcement of interim and final results, to ensure that the investing community receives
a balanced and consistent view of the Group's performance.
The principal documents received by shareholders are the interim report, annual report and accounts, and any circulars as
appropriate. All shareholders are welcomed to the AGM where the developments in the business are explained. The entire
Board of directors is expected to be present at the AGM and will be available to answer questions from shareholders. 
An Investors Section is included on the Group's website and includes the Stock Exchange announcements, financial
calendar, annual reports, share price information and a profile of the current directors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial
statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls and has
established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. 
Such systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to meet business
objectives, providing a reasonable but not an absolute assurance against material loss or misstatement. 
Group objectives are captured in regular reviews of corporate strategy carried out by the executive directors with the
involvement of key senior managers and reported to the Board. The reviews of corporate strategy form the basis for the
establishment of the business objectives of the Group which, in turn, are reflected fully in the business strategies and
financial objectives of the key senior managers and their teams.
Key policies, processes and control procedures are communicated throughout the Group. Non-compliance is reviewed
and any areas of weakness identified are addressed and promptly reported to the Board. Actions have been taken
throughout the year to embed risk management and internal control into the day-to-day operations of the Group. 
The audit committee receives reports twice a year from the external auditors on key matters which affect the interim and
full year financial statements. It reviews the process for monitoring the Group's effectiveness of internal controls at least
every six months. The Board has again considered the need for an internal audit function and has decided that one is
not required at present but will continue to review the requirement. 
It is Axon's policy to continuously strengthen the effectiveness of the system of internal controls by recruiting, developing
and managing employees of the highest calibre and matching their skills to the appropriate disciplines.
In relation to potential acquisitions, external advisers, together with senior management within the Group, are appointed
under clearly defined scopes to carry out commercial, financial and legal due diligence. The Board is kept fully up to date
with any issues arising during such due diligence.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Board is of the opinion that the standard of corporate governance at 
Axon is high and that it fully complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the accounting
period and to the date of this report with the requirements of the code D.2.1 as set out in the guidance for directors on
the Combined Code, published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales. 
Other matters The Board regularly reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business
of the Company and the Group.
Environment Being primarily office based, and given the nature of our business, Axon does not have a material impact
on the environment. However, the Group and its employees try to ensure that both services and products are procured in
an environmentally friendly manner and that waste materials are disposed of appropriately, including recycling where
economically possible.
Health and safety Axon operates a formal health and safety policy which is regularly monitored and reviewed by the
Board. Under the policy significant incidents are reported without delay to the Board. No such incidents occurred in 2002.
Kelvin Harrison
Chairman, audit committee
11 March 2003