 33
Wagon plc Annual Report 2004
Corporate
governance report
Statement of compliance
The board is accountable to the company's shareholders
for good governance and the information and statements
below describe how the company applies the principles
identified in the Combined Code. The company has
complied throughout the year with the Combined Code
  Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best
Practice published in June 1998. 
The board
The board is responsible to shareholders for the effective
and proper management and control of the company. The
board determines and reviews company strategy and
policy, considers acquisitions and disposals, assesses
requests for major capital expenditure and gives
consideration to all other significant financial matters. This
process is undertaken following discussions in conjunction
with senior executive management who in turn are
responsible for day to day conduct of the Group's
operations and for reporting to the board on the progress
being made in meeting the objectives. 
The board comprises two executive directors:
Mr Pierre Vareille, Group chief executive
Mr David Sleath, Group finance director
and four non-executive directors, all of whom are fully
independent of management and of one another:
Mr David Kendall, chairman of the board and chairman of
the nominations committee
Ms Sue Lyons, chairman of the remuneration committee
Mr John Rennocks, chairman of the audit committee and
the senior independent director
Mr Richard Wright
Following the resignation from the board of Mr Nick
Brayshaw in September 2003, Mr Kendall and Mr Sleath
took on the duties of Group chief executive until the
process for the selection of a new chief executive had
been completed. The board's policy remains that separate
individuals should perform the role of chairman and chief
executive and that the role of the chairman should be
non-executive.
Biographies of the directors are shown on page 21.
On appointment, all directors are advised that they have
access to the advice and services of the company
secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek
independent professional advice in the furtherance of
their duties, if necessary, at the company's expense. Also,
all newly appointed directors of the board and senior
management are given a comprehensive introduction to
the Group's businesses including visits to the Group's
principal sites and meetings with senior management.
Although the directors possess a wealth of diverse
business experience, they are encouraged to attend
relevant courses upon joining the board and, where
appropriate, at regular intervals thereafter.
All directors are required to retire and submit themselves
for re-election at least once every three years.
The duties of the board are set out in formal terms of
reference. The board meets a minimum of seven times
per year and this year has met eleven times. During the
year all directors attended all board and committee
meetings during their term of office. A comprehensive file
of briefing papers and a meeting agenda is provided for
each director normally seven days prior to each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the board, in conjunction, where
appropriate, with the recommendations of its committees
and advice from external consultants and executive
management. Since Mr Brayshaw's resignation, Mr Kendall
has been the director responsible for health and safety
within the Group.
Principally, via the executive directors and the chairman,
the company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of
objectives with its institutional shareholders through
regular meetings and presentations following the
preliminary and interim announcements. Institutional
shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with a
new non-executive director on request. Corporate
information is also available on the company's website
www.wagonplc.com. The board welcomes the attendance 34
Wagon plc Annual Report 2004
Corporate governance
report continued
of shareholders at the annual general meeting. In addition
to meeting its obligations to shareholders, the board
recognises that it has a responsibility to the Group's
customers, employees and suppliers and the communities
in which it operates and invests.
Committees of the board
The board has three committees, remuneration, audit and
nominations, whose members comprise the non-executive
directors. The duties of the committees are set out in
formal terms of reference and are available on the
company's website.
Remuneration committee
During the year Ms Sue Lyons was appointed chairman of
the remuneration committee following the retirement of
Mr Graham Titcombe. The principal function of the
committee is to establish and review the terms and
conditions for the executive directors and the overall
policy framework for the remuneration of other senior
executives. The committee met seven times during the
year. The board's report to shareholders on how directors
are remunerated, together with details of individual
directors' remuneration are shown on pages 26 to 32. 
Nominations committee
Mr David Kendall is the chairman of the nominations
committee. The committee reviews the composition of
the board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills,
experience, age and term of office and seeks to ensure
that both executive and non-executive directors have the
necessary skills and attributes for the future success of the
Group. The committee met six times during the year as
part of succession planning in general and specifically to
discuss the appointment of Mr Richard Wright and Mr
Pierre Vareille. The recommendations of the nominations
committee are proposed to the board, in order to ensure
that the views of the executive directors are taken into
account prior to making a final decision.
Audit committee
Mr John Rennocks is the chairman of the audit
committee. The committee reviews the Group's financial
reporting, risk management, and systems of internal
control in addition to satisfying itself as to the company's
regulatory compliance, and overseeing the objectivity and
effectiveness of the auditors. The committee met three
times during the year.
Internal control
Philosophy and policy
The objective of the directors and senior management is
to safeguard and increase the value of the business and
assets of the Group. Part of this objective requires the
development of relevant policies and appropriate internal
controls to ensure proper management of the Group's
resources and the identification of risks which might serve
to undermine them.
The board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, it is recognised that a system of internal control
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide
only reasonable, not absolute assurance, particularly
against misstatement or loss. The Group's senior
management, in conjunction with external advisers,
therefore periodically reviews the suitability of current
systems and reports its findings to the audit committee.
The committee reviews the Group's findings to ensure the
effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented
by senior management. Such reviews are conducted
through discussions held with senior management of the
Group and consideration of reports that have been
submitted. These findings are in turn discussed by the full
board. The board is satisfied that this process accords
with the internal control guidance for directors set out in
the ICAEW Turnbull guidance and that through its
interface with management, the board is aware of all the
major risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the
Group where possible to mitigate such risks.
Structures
Plant managers and financial controllers are responsible
for managing the business risks in their operating unit.
Each year they are asked to complete a letter of 35
Wagon plc Annual Report 2004
assurance, confirming compliance with the Group's
policies and procedures and risk management processes.
The outcome of these letters of assurance is reported to
the audit committee.
Risk profiling
There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks
faced by the Group, through the conduct of risk
workshops throughout the Group. Findings from the
workshops are reported to the audit committee together
with recommended action and a timetable for
implementation. A list of prioritised risks is refreshed to
reflect changes to the business including those arising
from new acquisitions. The list, along with other
management information, is used to develop an overall
assurance plan for the Group.
Controlling risk
The Group has a number of procedure manuals which
provide guidance and instruction to management in
respect of key business, commercial, financial and
operational risks. These are issued to all of the operating
units within the Group.
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk
The Group carries out a programme of internal audits and
management self-assessments over the status of residual
risks. The actions arising from internal and external audits
are consolidated and the results of the audits are
reported to the audit committee. The audit committee
assesses the findings and proposed actions for addressing
residual risks. In addition, action points are reviewed
during the regular business review meetings.
Internal financial controls
The Group has a comprehensive system for regular
monitoring and reporting the financial performance of
each operating unit and assessing the adequacy of the
Group's systems of internal controls. Detailed budgets are
prepared at the operating unit level and, following review
by senior management at Group level, are formally
reviewed and adopted by the board. Budgets and targets
are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting process and
variances from the targets and budgets are discussed with
management.
The internal controls of each operating unit are also
evaluated through the review of completed
questionnaires. Each plant manager and financial
controller is asked to confirm in writing that they have
complied with the Group's policy on internal financial
control.
These internal controls are supported by focused auditing
of specific operations or functions, as determined by the
audit committee at the beginning of each financial year.
The audits are conducted with the advice of Deloitte who
facilitate the development of the annual programme,
assist with its implementation and report to the
committee at least twice each year on the findings and
their recommendations. As a result of this approach,
utilising experienced external advisers, who are separate
from the audit function conducted by statutory auditors,
the committee considers that the company does not
require an internal audit function.
The board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness
of the system on internal controls for the year ended
31 March 2004.
By order of the board
Carolyn Humpherson
Secretary
3 June 2004