 Wagon plc annual report 2003
34
corporate governance report
The company complies with the Combined Code  
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
The board is accountable to the company's shareholders for
good governance and the information and statements
below describe how the company applies the principles
identified in the Combined Code.
Statement of compliance
The board believes that the company has, throughout the
accounting period, applied the principles of the Combined
Code and complied with the provisions set out in Section 1
of the Code. 
The board
The board's policy on the roles of the chairman and chief
executive is that separate individuals should hold those
positions and that the role of the chairman should be non-
executive.
The board comprises two executive directors:
Mr Nick Brayshaw, Group chief executive
Mr David Sleath, Group finance director
and four non-executive directors, all of whom are fully
independent of management and of one another:
Mr David Kendall, chairman of the board and chairman of
the nominations committee
Mr Graham Titcombe, senior non-executive director and
chairman of the remuneration committee
Ms Sue Lyons
Mr John Rennocks, chairman of the audit committee
Biographies of the directors are shown on page 25.
On appointment, all directors are advised that they have
access to the advice and services of the company secretary
and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if
necessary, at the company's expense. Also, all newly
appointed directors of the board and senior management are
given a comprehensive introduction to the Group's business
including visits to the Group's principal sites and meetings
with other senior management. Although the directors
possess a wealth of diverse business experience, they are
encouraged to attend relevant courses upon joining the
board and, where appropriate, at regular intervals thereafter.
The company complies with the Combined Code whereby
all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for
re-election at least once every three years.
The duties of the board are set out in formal terms of
reference. The board is responsible to shareholders for the
effective and proper management and control of the
company. The board is responsible for determining and
reviewing company strategy and policy, considering
acquisitions and disposals, assessing requests for major
capital expenditure and giving consideration to all other
significant financial matters. The board meets a minimum of
seven times per year and this year has met nine times and a
comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting agenda
is provided for each director normally seven days prior to
each meeting. Decisions are taken by the board, in
conjunction, where appropriate, with the recommendations
of its committees and advice from external consultants and
executive management. The chief executive is the director
responsible for health and safety within the Group.
Principally via the executive directors and the chairman, the
company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of
objectives with its institutional shareholders through regular
meetings and presentations following the preliminary and
interim announcements. Corporate information is also
available on the website www.wagonplc.com. The board
welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the annual
general meeting. In addition to meeting its obligations to
shareholders, the board recognises that it has a responsibility
to the Group's customers, employees and suppliers and the
communities in which it operates and invests.
Committees of the board
The board has three committees, remuneration, audit and
nominations, whose members comprise the non-executive
directors. The duties of the committees are set out in formal
terms of reference. 
Remuneration committee
Mr Graham Titcombe is the chairman of the remuneration
committee. The committee met five times during the year.
Its principal function is to establish and review the terms and
conditions for the executive directors and the overall policy
framework for the remuneration of other senior executives.
The board's report to shareholders on how directors are
remunerated, together with details of individual directors'
remuneration is to be found on pages 29 to 33.
Nominations committee
Mr David Kendall is the chairman of the nominations
committee. The committee reviews the composition of the
board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills,
experience, age and term of office and seeks to ensure that
both executive and non-executive directors have the
necessary skills and attributes for the future success of the
Group. The committee met twice during the year as part of
succession planning in general and specifically for the non-
executive director appointments to the board of Ms Sue
Lyons and Mr John Rennocks in addition to considering the
replacement for Mr Graham Titcombe on his retirement at 35
the annual general meeting this year. In regard to these
appointments, the committee has been advised by Hanson
Green. The recommendations of the nominations committee
are proposed to the board, in order to ensure that the views
of the executive directors are taken into account prior to
making a final decision.
Audit committee
Mr John Rennocks is the chairman of the audit committee.
The committee met three times during the year to review
the Group's financial reporting, risk management, internal
control and regulatory compliance, as well as overseeing the
objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
Internal control
Philosophy and policy
The objective of the executive directors and senior
management is to safeguard and increase the value of the
business and assets of the Group. Part of this objective
requires the development of relevant policies and
appropriate internal controls to ensure proper management
of the Group's resources and the identification of risks which
might serve to undermine them.
The board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However,
it is recognised that a system of internal control is designed
to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable, not absolute assurance, particularly against
misstatement or loss. The Group's senior management, in
conjunction with external advisers therefore periodically
reviews the suitability of current systems and reports its
findings to the audit committee.
The committee reviews the Group's findings to ensure the
effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by
senior management. Such reviews are conducted through
discussions held with senior management of the Group and
consideration of reports which have been submitted. These
findings are in turn discussed by the full board. The board is
satisfied that this process accords with the internal control
guidance for directors set out in the ICAEW Turnbull guidance
and that through its interface with management, the board is
aware of all the major risks facing the Group and the steps
taken by the Group where possible to mitigate such risks.
Structures 
Managing directors and finance directors are responsible for
managing the business risks in their operating unit. Each year
they are asked to complete a letter of assurance, confirming
compliance with the Group's policies and procedures and risk
management processes. The outcome of these letters of
assurance is reported to the audit committee.
Risk profiling
There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks
faced by the Group, through the conduct of risk workshops
throughout the Group. Findings from the workshops are
reported to the Audit committee together with
recommended action and a timetable for implementation.
This process was in place throughout the year to 31 March
2003. A list of prioritised risks is refreshed to reflect changes
to the business including those arising from new
acquisitions. The list, along with other management
information, is used to develop an overall assurance plan for
the Group. 
Controlling risk
The Group has three procedure manuals, one covering
financial reporting, another covering other Group policies
and a third covering health, safety and environmental issues.
These are issued to all of the operating units within the
Group. The Group carries out a programme of internal
audits and management self-assessments over the status of
residual risks. 
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk
The actions arising from internal and external audits are
consolidated and the results of the audits are reported to
the audit committee. The audit committee assesses the
findings and proposed actions for addressing residual risks.
In addition, action points are reviewed during the regular
business review meetings.
Internal financial controls
The Group has a comprehensive system for regular
monitoring and reporting the financial performance of each
operating unit. Detailed budgets are prepared at the
operating unit level and, following review by senior
management at Group level, are formally reviewed and
adopted by the board. Budgets and targets are regularly
updated via a rolling forecasting process.
The internal controls of each operating unit are also
evaluated by the review of completed questionnaires. Each
managing director and finance director is asked to confirm
in writing that they have complied with the Group's policy on
internal financial control.
The board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness
of the system on internal controls for the year ended
31 March 2003.
By order of the board
Carolyn Humpherson
Secretary 
29 May 2003