 Walker Greenbank PLC, Annual Report & Accounts 2014
37
Corporate Governance Statement
As a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market the 
Company is not required to issue a Corporate Governance Statement 
of Compliance with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code ( the Code') however the Company voluntarily 
presents disclosures that reflect the extent of the Company's application 
of the Code. 
Chairman's Statement
The Board supports the principles and aims of the Code. Good 
governance reduces risk and adds value to our business. Delivering 
growth and long-term shareholder value with effective and efficient 
decision making is of high importance to the Board. 
The Board
The Company is supervised by the Board of Directors. The Board 
comprises three Executive and two Non-executive Directors. There 
is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is 
responsible for the effective leadership and smooth running of the 
Board, and the Chief Executive Officer who, with the other Executive 
Directors, is responsible for the running of the Company.
The Directors
The Board of Directors who served during the year ended 31 January 
2014 and their attendance at meetings is shown in the adjacent table. 
Since the year end A Dix has resigned his position, effective 30 April 
2014, and M Gant was appointed to the Board effective 3 March 2014. 
Biographical details of the current Board are given on page 30.
Board programme
The Board meets at least nine times each year in accordance with its 
scheduled meeting calendar and the attendance by each Board member 
at scheduled meetings is shown.
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company. 
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board. It is 
responsible for overall Group strategy; approval of major capital 
expenditure projects; approval of the annual and interim results; 
annual budgets; dividend policy; and Board structure. It monitors 
the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction 
of all trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets, their performance 
in relation to those budgets and their capital expenditure.
All Directors receive regular and timely information on the Group's 
operational and financial performance. Relevant information is circulated 
to the Directors in advance of meetings. The business reports monthly 
on its performance against its agreed budget, and the Board reviews 
the monthly update on performance and any significant variances are 
reviewed at each meeting. Senior executives below Board level attend 
Board meetings, where appropriate, to present business updates.
Board meetings throughout the year are held at the Company's 
various sites giving, in particular the Non-executive Directors, access 
to the manufacturing sites to gain a greater understanding of the 
Group's activities.
Independent advice
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense. 
In addition the Directors have direct access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary.
Board Committees
The Board has Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees, 
each of which has written terms of reference which are available on 
the Company's website. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to 
the Committees. The Board is satisfied that the Committees discharged 
their responsibilities appropriately.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees
Board
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
T Stannard 9 1 3 3
F Goldsmith 9 1 3 3
J Sach 9 1 - -
D Smallridge 9 - - -
A Dix 9 - - -
The Board scheduled nine meetings during the year and additional 
meetings were convened to deal with specific matters and approval of 
the financial results.
Independent Directors
The Board considers, after careful review, that the Non-executive 
Directors bring an independent judgment to bear. All Non-executive 
Directors have contracts which contain six-month notice clauses. These 
are available for inspection at the Company's registered office and at 
the Annual General Meeting. All Directors retire by rotation at regular 
intervals in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and 
the principles of the Code. The Non-executive Directors continue to retire 
for re-election at least every third year and their other time commitments 
are reviewed regularly. Further details of each of the independent 
Directors are set out on page 30.
All Directors undergo a performance evaluation before being proposed 
for re-election to ensure their performance continues to be effective, that 
where appropriate they maintain their independence and that they are 
demonstrating continued commitment to the role.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by T Stannard, Non-executive 
Chairman, and comprises F Goldsmith, the other Non-executive Director, 
and J Sach, the Chief Executive Officer.
It makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. 
The Company's Articles of Association stipulate that one third of the 
Directors or the nearest whole number below one third shall retire each 
year. The Company requires all Directors to submit themselves for 
re-election at least every three years. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by T Stannard and comprises 
himself and F Goldsmith. The Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board in relation to all aspects of 
remuneration for Executive Directors and designated senior managers. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that the presence of the Chief 
Executive Officer is important when determining the remuneration of 
the other Executive Directors.
In framing its policy the Remuneration Committee takes into account 
any factors which it deems necessary, including industry standard 
executive remuneration, differentials between executive and employee 
remuneration and differentials between executives. The remuneration 
of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors. Walker Greenbank PLC, Annual Report & Accounts 2014
38
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by F Goldsmith and comprises herself 
and T Stannard. Although all the Committee members are considered to 
be appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, F Goldsmith is considered 
as having significant, recent and relevant experience in line with the 
Code. Further details of the work of the Committee is contained in the 
Audit Committee Report on page 39.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board keeps its risk control procedures under constant review 
particularly with regard to the need to embed internal control and risk 
management procedures further into the operations of business, both in 
the UK and overseas, and to deal with areas of improvement which come 
to management's and the Board's attention.
As might be expected in a group of this size, a key control procedure is 
the day to day supervision of the business by the Executive Directors, 
supported by the senior managers with responsibility for key operations.
The Executive Directors are involved in the budget setting process, 
regularly monitor key performance indicators and review management 
accounts on a monthly basis, noting and investigating any major 
variances. All significant capital expenditure decisions are approved by 
the Board as a whole.
Risk management process
The Group's significant risks, together with the relevant control and 
monitoring procedures, are subject to regular review to enable the Board 
to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control. During the 
course of its reviews the Board has not identified nor been advised of any 
failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant other 
than disclosed in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
The Group's system of internal control is designed to manage rather  
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Group's systems are designed to provide 
reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial information, 
ensuring proper control over income and expenditure, assets  
and liabilities.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function,  
but because of the size and nature of its operations does not consider  
it necessary at the current time.
Relations with shareholders
The Group encourages two way communications with both its 
institutional and private investors and responds in a timely fashion  
to all queries received. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have 
regular dialogue with individual institutional investors in order to develop 
an understanding of their views. Presentations are made to analysts, 
investors and prospective investors covering the annual and  
interim results.
The Company website (www.walkergreenbank.com) has an Investors 
section giving private investors direct access to business information and 
Company reports. There is also an enquiries mailbox facility.
All shareholders receive notice of the Annual General Meeting at which 
all Committee chairs will be available for questions.
Corporate Governance Statement continued