 19 Weatherly International plc Annual report 2013
Corporate governance report
Introduction
The board of directors is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to its shareholders for good governance, and the statement below is based on the review
of corporate governance that was carried out by the Audit Committee and describes how the principles of good
governance have been applied.
Constitution of the board
During the year ended 30 June 2013, the board was comprised of the following:
John Bryant Chairman
Rod Webster Chief Executive Officer
Alan Stephens Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Wolf Martinick Non-executive Director
Charilaos Stavrakis Non-executive Director (joined the board on 17 January 2013)
Non-executive directors
During the year, the board had four non-executive directors: John Bryant (Non-executive Chairman), Alan
Stephens, (Senior Independent Non-executive Director), Wolf Martinick and Charilaos Stavrakis. Alan Stephens,
John Bryant and Charilaos Stavrakis were considered to be independent. Due to the size of Wolf Martinick's
shareholding of 3.59%, he is not considered to be an independent director. The relatively small number of share
options that have been granted to the other three non-executive directors does not, in the opinion of Weatherly's
advisers or its directors, impair their independence.
Committees of the board
The board has three Standing Committees, each of which has terms of reference setting out its authority and
duties, as follows:
The Audit Committee was made up of John Bryant as Chairman and Alan Stephens for the year ended 30 June
2013. When Charilaos Stavrakis joined the board he was appointed to this sub-committee.
The Audit Committee meets as required. It reviews the financial reports and accounts and the preliminary and
interim statements, including the board's statement on internal financial control in the annual report prior to their
submission to the board for approval. The Audit Committee also reviews corporate governance within the group
and reports on this to the board. In addition, it assesses the overall performance of the external auditor including
scope, cost-effectiveness and objectivity of the audit.
The Audit Committee is also charged with reviewing the independence of the external auditor and monitors the
level of non-audit fees. These fees are disclosed in note 10 to the accounts. In the opinion of the Audit Committee,
which has reviewed these fees and the procedures that Grant Thornton UK LLP have in place to ensure they retain
their independence, the auditor's independence is not compromised. The Audit Committee met three times during
the period, and John Bryant and Alan Stephens were present on all occasions.
The Audit Committee can meet for private discussion with the external auditor, who attends these meetings as
required. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 20 Weatherly International plc Annual report 2013
Corporate governance report
The Remuneration Committee was made up of Alan Stephens as Chairman and John Bryant during the year,
with the Company Secretary serving as secretary. When he joined the board, Charilaos Stavrakis was appointed to
this sub-committee.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the board, the group's policy on executive remuneration
and the remuneration packages for executive directors. It also approves and administers the executive share option
scheme, the long-term incentive plan (LTIP) and the grant of options as part of the remuneration package. The
Remuneration Committee met four times during the period, with Alan Stephens and John Bryant in attendance on
each occasion.
The Nominations Committee is made up of John Bryant and Rod Webster with at least one of the non-executive
directors also attending.
In addition to its role of considering the appointment of directors and senior managers, the Nominations
Committee is also charged with reporting to the board on the effectiveness of the board, its sub-committees and
its directors, and it does this at the end of the annual audit cycle. The Nominations Committee meet twice during
the year.
Attendance at meetings
During the year, there were eleven board meetings. directors' attendance at meetings of the board and its 
sub-committees during the period was as follows:
John Bryant Board 11/11 Audit Committee 2/2 Remuneration Committee 2/2
Rod Webster Board 11/11
Alan Stephens Board 10/11 Audit Committee 2/2 Remuneration Committee 2/2
Wolf Martinick Board 10/11
Charilaos Stavrakis Board 5/5 Audit Committee 0/0 Remuneration Committee 0/0
Of the eleven board meetings, three were of a procedural nature and eight were substantive meetings.
The Nominations Committee met on two occasions and John Bryant, Rod Webster and Alan Stephens were
present for both meetings.
The board is responsible for reviewing and approving the adequacy and effectiveness of the group's internal
controls, including financial and operational control, risk management and compliance.
In order to establish effective procedures for internal control and communicate these throughout the group,
including its subsidiaries, the board has issued two important documents to all staff known as the board Protocol
and the Manual of Internal Control.
The key elements of the group's internal control are set out in these documents, and contain:
  a clearly defined structure for the group, its subsidiaries and management teams;
  powers that the board has reserved for itself. These include the approval of all business plans and budgets for the
group and all its subsidiaries, the establishment of subsidiary companies and appointment of directors to them, and
the process for project approval and capital expenditure;
  terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, which define the roles of their
members; 21 Weatherly International plc Annual report 2013
Corporate governance report
  information about how often the board should meet (as a minimum) and an annual cycle of meetings. This covers
the process for the preparation of board agendas and board papers, and their prior consideration by the
management team at its weekly meetings;
  detailed business plans and budgets to be approved annually and performance monitored by the management
team and the board at its monthly meetings; and
  procedures for the approval of expenditure, the levels of authority and the management controls.
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the group's system of internal financial control and risk
management, and place considerable importance on maintaining this. The Manual of Internal Control and the
process for authorisation that it imposes, together with the Board Protocol setting out the process for authorising
business plans, budgets and projects, form an important part of our decision-making process; however, this can
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
There is currently no internal audit function within the group owing to the small size of the administrative function.
There is however a high level of review by directors and a clear requirement for them to authorise transactions.
Should the need for a separate internal audit function become apparent, the board will establish one.
The Board Protocol and the Manual of Internal Control have both been updated and refined as Weatherly's
business evolves and grows.
Bribery Act compliance
In response to the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 and in order to ensure compliance, the board approved a
suite of documentation that included a policy statement on anti-corruption and bribery, a code of conduct for
employees, a set of management procedures, a note defining responsibilities within the company and an
implementation plan that has been rolled out in the company. Progress on the implementation has been reported
to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee noted that documentation has been circulated and meetings to
explain the procedures have been held with all staff and contractors on site including our operating mines in
Namibia. Notices have been displayed at our locations with the whistle-blowing  procedure. The implementation
and effectiveness of these procedures is continually monitored and reported to the board. This year members of
the senior management team in Namibia were interviewed and confirmed that all new members of staff and all
new contractors had been instructed on the company's policies and procedures for compliance with the Bribery Act
and there were no issues arising from this.
Relations with shareholders
The company endeavours to maintain regular communications with shareholders through regulatory
announcements via the Weatherly International website and by direct contact with its major shareholders. Rod
Webster has taken the opportunity to meet the smaller shareholders at regular investor presentations. The board
values the views of its shareholders and fosters continuing dialogue with investment and fund managers, other
investors and equity analysts to ensure that the investing community receives an informed view of the group's
prospects, plans and progress. This year we have appointed a new Investor Relations executive, Rolf Gerritsen, to
strengthen this area.