 26 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2003
The company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code which is appended to the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders. The Board has noted the content of the
Higgs Report on non-executive Directors and that its proposals are still under review.  Once finalised, the Board will consider again the
application of the Report's recommendations to the company. 
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
During the year ended 31 March 2003 the company complied with the requirements of Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance
and Code of Best Practice (the  Combined Code').
During that year, and currently, the post of Executive Chairman was and is held by Mr Campbell. Mr Rogers as Chief Operating 
Officer has effective Board responsibility for day-to-day operational matters of the group. The Board considers it has a strong group of 
non-executive Directors (including a non-executive Deputy Chairman). The Deputy Chairman, Lord Hesketh, is recognised by the Board 
as the senior independent Director to whom any concerns may be conveyed by investors.
The group recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance. The principles of good
governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code have been applied in the following way:
Directors
The Board currently comprises three executive Directors and five non-executive Directors. The Board considers each of its non-executive
Directors to be independent. The Board is confident that the constitution of the Board ensures a balance of power and authority such 
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Board formally met six times in the financial year under review. All Directors have full and timely access to information. 
All Directors must submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Board Committees
The Board has an established Audit and Risk Committee consisting of all the current non-executive Directors, under the Chairmanship 
of Mr Rennocks. The Committee met formally twice in the year under review. In the forthcoming year the Committee intends to meet 
at least three times. The Committee has formal terms of reference that have been updated in light of the recommendations made in the
current version of the Smith Report. Its meetings are attended by the Group Chairman, Group Finance Director and internal auditor and
also by the external auditors, with the opportunity being given to Committee members to meet the auditors (internal and external) in the
absence of executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee established by the Board, which also serves as the company's nominations committee, is described 
in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 32.
Directors' remuneration
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement of the company's policy on executive Directors' remuneration are set out in the
Remuneration report on pages 28 to 32.
Contact with shareholders
The company has regular contact with its larger shareholders, both institutional and individual. The Annual General Meeting is used as an
important opportunity for communication with all shareholders. All of the company's then Directors, other than Mr Rogers, attended the
2002 Annual General Meeting, and all of the current Directors intend to attend the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The company's
website is also available for shareholders to keep themselves updated on developments. It is regularly updated with press releases and
analyst presentations. Shareholders can register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
Going concern
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have, after making enquiries, a reasonable
expectation that the group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal controls
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the group's system of internal controls, and for monitoring its effectiveness. There has
been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks throughout the period under review and at the date of the
approval of the Financial Statements. This process is in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code
published in September 1999. The group's systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The key features of this system are described below.
Control environment and procedures
The group operates decentralised, profit-responsible units reporting through a Divisional management structure with clear delegated levels
of authority and an established system of internal control. 
The Board has also adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains
effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues. Key controls and procedures are detailed 
in the Group Policies & Authorities Manual. Together, these controls include defined procedures for seeking approval for both significant
commitments and organisational changes, and are updated as necessary.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives
The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the group and developing appropriate policies to
manage those risks. A group Risk Manager has been appointed to further strengthen and co-ordinate the monitoring, identification and
management of risk and a Group Risk Standard has been promulgated which requires businesses and operations, in a consistent manner,
to monitor, identify and clarify risks and the steps that can be taken to reduce, eliminate or manage them.
Given the nature of the group's business, the principal risks relate to out-turn on contracts and the success rate in bidding for
contracts. All proposed and actual bids for significant contracts are subject to continuous monitoring and review by a  Bid Executive',
consisting of the Chief Operating Officer, Divisional Managing Directors and representatives from other central functions. It meets monthly.
Its function is to ensure that group resources are properly focused on appropriate, realistic and remunerative bidding opportunities that are
the most suitable having regard to the strengths of the group and its development objectives. The final submission of significant bids
requires formal approval from one or more executive Directors to ensure that they meet group criteria. Progress on all significant contracts
is continually monitored within the relevant Division and is reviewed at least quarterly by group Head Office.
Statement on Corporate Governance
9366 Babcock R&A 2003 - Mid  18/6/03  12:27 pm  Page 26 27 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2003
Information and communication
Comprehensive budgeting systems are in place to develop annual budgets covering the key aspects of each Division's business. 
The budgets are subject to review by central management prior to submission for approval by the Board. Revised forecasts for the 
year are prepared on a regular basis. Actual performance is compared each month with budgets, forecasts and prior year, with written
commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
Monitoring
For the year under review, the internal control system was monitored and supported by an internal audit function that operated and
reported to senior management and the Audit and Risk Committee on the group's worldwide operations. Since the end of the financial
year, Ernst & Young have been appointed to provide the internal audit service under the overall control of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The work of internal auditors is focused on the areas of greatest risk to the group as determined by the Audit and Risk Committee and
senior management. These activities are supplemented by quality assurance audits and regular review visits by group management.
External auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the group's Annual Report and Financial Statements and the results of their reviews
are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board of Directors has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in place.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period. In preparing those Financial Statements, 
the Directors are required to
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Financial Statements; and
  prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the group 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on the company's website. The maintenance and integrity of this website is
the responsibility of the Directors. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
9366 Babcock R&A 2003 - Mid  18/6/03  12:27 pm  Page 27