 Annual report 2011 13
Corporate governance report
Introduction
The board of directors is committed to high standards of
corporate governance.
The board is accountable to its shareholders for good
governance, and the statement below is based on the review
of corporate governance that was carried out by the Audit
Committee and describes how the principles of good
governance have been applied.
Constitution of the board
During the year ended 30 June 2011, the board was
comprised of the following:
John Bryant Chairman (appointed 14 December 2010)
Rod Webster Chief Executive Officer
Alan Stephens Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director (appointed 14 December 2010)
Wolf Martinick Non-executive Director
Non-executive directors
During the year, the board had three non-executive directors:
Alan Stephens, John Bryant, and Wolf Martinick. Wolf
Martinick resigned as Chairman on 14 December and was
replaced by John Bryant. Wolf Martinick has continued as a
non-executive director. Alan Stephens and John Bryant were
considered to be  independent' and, with John Bryant
becoming Chairman, Alan Stephens has taken over as the
senior independent non-executive director. Due to the size of
Wolf Martinick's shareholding of 3.60% and his ability to
influence Ezenet Ltd's holding of 3.40%, he is not considered
to be an independent director. The relatively small number of
share options that has been granted to the other two non-
executive directors does not, in the opinion of Weatherly's
advisers or its directors, impair their independence.
Committees of the board
The board has three standing committees, each of which has
terms of reference setting out its authority and duties, as
follows:
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE was made up of John Bryant as
Chairman and Alan Stephens for the year ended 30 June
2011.
The Audit Committee meets as required. It reviews the
financial reports and accounts and the preliminary and
interim statements, including the board's statement on
internal financial control in the annual report, prior to their
submission to the board for approval. The Audit Committee
also reviews corporate governance within the group and
reports on this to the board. In addition, it assesses the
overall performance of the external auditor including scope,
cost effectiveness and objectivity of the audit.
The Audit Committee is also charged with reviewing the
independence of the external auditor and monitors the level
of non-audit fees. These fees are disclosed in note 10 to the
accounts. In the opinion of the Audit Committee, which has
reviewed these fees and the procedures that Grant Thornton
UK LLP have in place to ensure they retain their
independence, the auditor's independence is not
compromised. The Audit Committee met twice during the
period, and John Bryant and Alan Stephens were present on
both occasions.
The Audit Committee can meet for private discussion with
the external auditor, who attends its meetings as required.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE was made up of Alan
Stephens as Chairman and John Bryant during the year, with
the Company Secretary serving as secretary.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the
board, the group's policy on executive remuneration and the
remuneration packages for executive directors. It also
approves and administers the executive share option scheme,
the long term incentive plan (LTIP) and the grant of options
as part of the remuneration package. The Remuneration
Committee met five times during the period, with Alan
Stephens and John Bryant in attendance on each occasion. 
THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE is made up of John Bryant and
Rod Webster with either Wolf Martinick or Alan Stephens.
In addition to its role of considering the appointment of
directors and senior managers, the Nominations Committee
is also charged with reporting to the board on the
effectiveness of the board, its sub-committees and its
directors, and it does this at the end of the annual audit
cycle. The Nominations Committee did not meet formally
during the year. 
In accordance with the Quoted Companies Alliance
Guidance, the board nominated Alan Stephens as the senior
independent non-executive director on 14 December 2010
following John Bryant's appointment as Chairman. At the
same board meeting, the directors also adopted the
guidance on Corporate Governance for AIM Listed
Companies by the Quoted Company Alliance and in future
will be reporting our performance against the guidance.
Attendance at meetings
During the year, there were a large number of substantive
board meetings. Directors' attendance at meetings of the
board and its sub-committees during the period was as
shown on page 14.
Of the 21 board meetings, nine were of a procedural nature
and 12 were substantive meetings. 
The Nominations Committee did not meet formally during
the year; however, such matters that arose within its term of
reference were dealt with in full board meetings. 14 Weatherly International plc
Internal control
The board is responsible for reviewing and approving the
adequacy and effectiveness of the group's internal controls,
including financial and operational control, risk management
and compliance.
In order to establish effective procedures for internal control
and communicate these throughout the group, including its
subsidiaries, the board has issued two important documents
to all staff known as the Board Protocol and the Manual of
Internal Control.
The key elements of the group's internal control are set out
in these documents, and contain:
  a clearly defined structure for the group, its subsidiaries
and management teams;
  powers which the board has reserved to itself. These
include the approval of all business plans and budgets for
the group and all its subsidiaries, the establishment of
subsidiary companies and appointment of directors to
them, and the process for project approval and capital
expenditure;
  terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees, which define the roles of their
members;
  information about how often the board should meet (as a
minimum) and an annual cycle of meetings. This covers
the process for the preparation of board agendas and
board papers, and their prior consideration by the
management team at its weekly meetings;
  detailed business plans and budgets to be approved
annually and performance monitored by the management
team and the board at its monthly meetings; and
  procedures for the approval of expenditure, the levels of
authority and the management controls.
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the group's
system of internal financial control and risk management,
and place considerable importance on maintaining this. The
Manual of Internal Control and the process for authorisation
that it imposes, together with the Board Protocol setting out
the process for authorising business plans, budgets and
projects, form an important part of our decision-making
process; however, this can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
Attendance at meetings
John Bryant Board 21/21 Audit Committee 2/2 Remuneration Committee 5/5
Rod Webster Board 21/21
Alan Stephens Board 20/21 Audit Committee 2/2 Remuneration Committee 5/5
Wolf Martinick Board 16/21
Corporate governance report
There is currently no internal audit function within the group
owing to the small size of the administrative function.
However, there is a high level of review by directors and a
clear requirement for them to authorise transactions. Should
the need for a separate internal audit function become
apparent, the board will establish one.
The Board Protocol and the Manual of Internal Control have
both been updated and refined as Weatherly's business
evolves and grows. 
Bribery Act compliance
In response to the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 and
in order to ensure compliance, the Board approved a suite of
documentation that included a policy statement on anti-
corruption and bribery, a code of conduct for employees, a
set of management procedures, a note defining
responsibilities within the company and an implementation
plan which has been rolled out in the company. Progress on
the implementation has been reported to the Audit
Committee. The Audit Committee noted that documentation
had been circulated and meetings to explain the procedures
had been held with all staff and contractors on site including
our operating mines in Namibia. Notices had been displayed
at our locations with the  whistle blowing' procedure. The
implementation and effectiveness of these procedures will be
continually monitored and reported to the board.
Relations with shareholders
The company endeavours to maintain regular
communications with shareholders through regulatory
announcements, via the Weatherly International website and
by direct contact with its major shareholders. Rod Webster
has also participated in conference calls with groups of
smaller shareholders. The board values the views of its
shareholders and fosters continuing dialogue with
investment and fund managers, other investors and equity
analysts to ensure that the investing community receives an
informed view of the group's prospects, plans and progress.