 Corporate governance statement
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate behaviour and is committed to conducting the Group's operations in accordance with the
best principles of corporate governance.
This Report together with the Remuneration report on pages 34 to 40 describe how the Principles of Good Governance and the provisions of the Code
of Best Practice identified in the Combined Code issued by the London Stock Exchange on 25 June 1998 are applied by the Company.
Board of directors
The Board is currently considering its position following the issue of the Higgs report on non-executive directors and the Smith report on Audit
Committees. The Board currently comprises five executive and three independent non-executive directors. Their biographies appear on pages 26 and 27
and demonstrate the wide range of high level business experience which is necessary to manage and direct the Group. The roles of Chairman and
Chief Executive are separate with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Company.
The Chairman, G K Maddrell, is an independent non-executive director and the senior non-executive director is D R Wilson.
The Board is responsible for determining the Group's strategy, monitoring its performance and directing its operations.
The Board meets regularly, and not less than six times each year, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision. The Company
Secretary is responsible for preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and for ensuring that appropriate information is provided to the directors
ahead of each meeting. In addition, all of the directors have full and timely access to detailed information on the Group's operations, including
management accounts and reports from the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Regional Boards.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure for the directors to take
independent professional advice, if necessary at the Company's expense, in the furtherance of their duties. All new directors are provided with
appropriate training, on appointment and subsequently, to undertake their duties as a director.
The Board has properly constituted Audit and Remuneration Committees, details of which are set out below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors, G K Maddrell (Chairman), G P F Inge and D R Wilson. The Audit
Committee acts in an advisory capacity to the Board and meets at least twice a year. Its terms of reference require it to take an independent view of the
appropriateness of the Group's accounting controls, policies and procedures. The Committee also reviews and approves the reports, appointment and
fees of the external auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors, G K Maddrell (Chairman), G P F Inge and D R Wilson.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for the determination and application of the Group's policy relating to the remuneration
and benefits of executive directors. The Remuneration report on pages 34 to 40 contains details of directors' remuneration and the Group's policies in
relation to directors' remuneration.
Appointments to the Board
When required, a Nominations Committee comprising the Chairman, the Chief Executive and one other non-executive director is established.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of new directors.
All of the directors submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and at least every three years
thereafter. Details of the directors submitting for re-election in 2003 are shown on page 32 in the Report of the directors.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a dialogue with its shareholders with regular meetings between executive directors and principal institutional investors. Both
institutional investors and individual shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to ask questions of
the Board. At the Annual General Meeting, the Company will count proxy votes and will announce the number of votes cast after each resolution has
been dealt with on a show of hands.
Accountability and audit
Going concern
A statement by the directors concerning the application of the going concern principle in the preparation of the financial statements is included in the
Financial review on page 29.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The directors believe that during the year ended 28 February 2003, the Group complied with the requirements of the Combined Code except, as
described in the Remuneration report, the Board does not consider it appropriate to adopt notice periods of one year or less for all executive directors
at this time.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 41 Corporate governance statement
42 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. The Board, through the Audit Committee, has
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. This process was in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual
Report and financial statements. It is regularly reviewed by the Board and auditors in accordance with the guidance in the Turnbull Report. However,
it must be recognised that any such system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of
proper books and records and the reliability of financial information. The key features of the Group's control system are as follows:
Control environment
The Group has a clearly defined management structure which ensures a proper division of responsibility and authority. The Group has established
a Code of Ethics, together with company rules and policy manuals, and a strong culture of good control and accurate reporting is supported by
an effective self audit function.
Key business risks
The Board has identified the key business risks relevant to the Group's operations. These risks are reviewed on a six-monthly basis to ensure that
they remain relevant to the business and appropriate to the current trading environment and that no further risks require consideration.
Control procedures
Comprehensive control procedures are used to address the key business risks. These include segregation of duties and authorisation procedures
and cover land management, cash control and bank facilities, trading performance, expansion of the business and information technology.
The Board considers the adequacy of the control procedures at the same time as it reviews the key business risks. The approval of acquisitions
and land purchases is reserved for the Board, with specific delegated authority to the executive directors depending upon the amount being
committed.
Monitoring control
The Group has a culture which recognises the importance of control and accurate reporting and has established information systems covering
the key elements of the business to ensure that the Board, the executive directors and senior managers receive accurate and timely information
on which to base decisions.
Budgets are set annually for each region and for the Group and actual performance is reviewed quarterly. The Board has also established key
performance indicators which are monitored by the executive directors on a weekly, monthly or quarterly basis, as appropriate.
Self audit
Operation of the Group's internal control system is reviewed and tested by an internal audit process known as self audit. This process involves all
of the senior managers in the regions and Head Office. The Head of self audit has direct access to the chairman of the audit committee. As well as
being a very important element of internal control, the self audit process has facilitated the dissemination of best practice across the Group, and
helps maintain a strong control culture in the Group.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; make
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Westbury website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.