 Introduction
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance ( the Code'). This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Company's
compliance with the Code's provisions. 
Board of Directors
The Board currently has eight members, comprising the Chairman (non-executive), Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, three
further Executive Directors and two further non-executive Directors. All of the Directors bring strong judgement to the Board's
deliberations. The Chairman and other non-executive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The non-executive Directors 
have each been appointed for a 3-year term. The senior non-executive Director is A D Malpas. 
P Bateman was appointed as a Director and as Chief Executive on 9 October 2002. C A Lawrence served as Chief Executive until 
9 October 2002 and took a 6-month sabbatical from that date until 9 April 2003, when he resigned as a Director. 
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 22 and 23. The Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior
positions in UK listed companies and have substantial experience in business. The non-executive Directors do not participate in any 
of the Group's pension schemes or in any of the Group's bonus, share option or other incentive schemes. All Directors must stand for
election at the first Annual General Meeting after they are appointed. The Articles provide that all Directors will stand for re-election at
least every three years.
The Board is responsible for the proper management of the Company. The Board normally meets 10 times each financial year and has
a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including the approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets,
acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments. The Secretary maintains a record of attendance at
Board meetings.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board or Committee meeting. This normally includes a
detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Annual reports are presented to the Board on matters such as pensions, insurance and treasury. Specific business presentations are
given when appropriate.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the Board of medium term plans and annual
budgets for business units. Each business unit reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget. The Board receives a
monthly update on performance and reviews significant variances on a monthly basis. All major investment decisions are subject to
post completion reviews.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary. In addition, the Directors have
direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures
are followed. Removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. Every Director receives appropriate training and
business familiarisation as required on appointment to the Board, and subsequently as necessary.
The differing roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged. The non-executive Chairman is primarily responsible for 
the workings of the Board and ensuring that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved. The Chief Executive chairs the Wincanton
Executive which also comprises the Group Finance Director, the three Executive Directors, the functional heads of IT and HR and the
Company Secretary. The Executive is responsible for the day to day running of the business, carrying out the agreed strategy and
implementing specific Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
Board Committees 
There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various matters are delegated. The committees all have terms 
of reference, brief details of which are set out below:
The Nomination Committee comprises P Bateman, since his appointment as Chief Executive, (previously C A Lawrence) and 
A D Malpas, under the chairmanship of V W Benjamin. It is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board persons 
who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and non-executive Directors. Appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board
following recommendation from the Committee. The Committee meets as necessary and uses the services of outside consultants 
to assist it.
Corporate governance
26 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance
continued
The Remuneration Committee comprises V W Benjamin and P G Cox under the chairmanship of A D Malpas. It is responsible,
within a framework established by the Board overall, for setting the remuneration of senior executives, including the Executive
Directors. It is also responsible for granting executive options, long-term incentive plan awards, pension rights and any compensation
packages. Full details of its activities and of Directors' remuneration are set out in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 28 
to 32. It details compliance with the legal requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
The Audit Committee comprises V W Benjamin and A D Malpas under the chairmanship of P G Cox. It is responsible for:
  reviewing the annual and interim financial statements before they are presented to the Board;
  agreeing internal and external audit plans;
  receiving reports from external auditors and from the Head of Internal Audit and dealing with any significant control issues arising.
It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Company and
its Auditors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes
of all Audit Committee meetings.
Shareholder relations
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders. Senior executives, including the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and twice a year give general
presentations covering the annual and interim results. The Company Secretary generally deals with questions from individual
shareholders. All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Company's Annual General Meeting, when the Chief
Executive will give a statement on the Company's performance during the year, together with a statement on current trading
conditions. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions at the 
Annual General Meeting. The Chairman will advise shareholders on proxy voting details. In addition, a website containing published
information and press releases can be found at www.wincanton.co.uk.
Internal control
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors in connection with the financial statements are explained on pages 32 
and 33. The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group has been in place throughout the year
which accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control. The Audit Committee has, as part of its review process, considered the
Group's system of internal control throughout the year. The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk
of failure to meet business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the control system are as follows: the Group has an organisational structure with established lines of
accountability as well as clearly defined levels of authority. The Group has issued manuals, including the Group's ethical code, which
provide details of the key policies and procedures to be followed and the overall environment in which the business is expected to
operate. In addition, the Group has in place a system of control self-certification which provides a documented trail of accountability
against the internal control policies and procedures. This process is facilitated by the Internal Audit Department who also provide a
degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control. Following the acquisition of P&O Trans European,
which operated a more decentralised approach to financial control, these processes and systems are being extended to encompass
the sites and operations of the enlarged business.
All types of risk applicable to the business are reviewed on a continual basis. In addition, a formal risk assessment review is carried out
on an annual basis to highlight key risks to the business and to consider action that can reasonably and cost effectively be taken to
reduce them. This review, which accords with the Code, is considered by the Board. 
The Group's Internal Audit Department is involved in the review and testing of the internal control system and of key risks across 
the Group in accordance with the annual programme agreed with the Audit Committee and undertakes from time to time ad hoc
assignments requested by senior executives or the Audit Committee. The findings of the Internal Audit Department are discussed 
with the Audit Committee.
Compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 
31 March 2003 and to the date of this report.
27 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2003