 Worthington Group plc Report & Accounts Y ear Ended 31 March 2010
5
18155	 16/06/2010	 Proof	5
Report on Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors supports the principle and is committed 
to maintaining standards of corporate governance in line with 
the 2008 FRC Combined Code which sets out the Principles 
of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice. The Board 
considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of 
the code throughout the year under review (and subsequently up 
to the date of this report) except in those areas mentioned in the 
summary of the Company' s procedures below:
Board Composition
The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, 
including the Chairman and one independent Non-Executive 
Director. In keeping with a company the size of Worthington 
and the Board' s determination to reduce costs to a minimum 
Joe Dwek CBE, the Chairman has also been appointed Chief 
Executive. In this respect the Company does not comply with 
the Combined Code which recommends the separation of the 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive. The Board has made 
available appropriate training for the Directors as they feel 
is required. This is provided at the expense of the Company. 
The Non-Executive Director is considered by the Board to be 
independent of management and free from any business or other 
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of 
his independent judgement. 
All Directors are subject to retirement and re-election by rotation 
in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, 
and Directors appointed since the previous Annual General 
Meeting are subject to re-election at the first Annual General 
Meeting after their appointment. 
The role of Company Secretary is currently performed by the 
Finance Director, David Shalom. 
Operation of the Board
The Board schedules meetings as required throughout the year. 
It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its 
decision and approval such as the appointment of Directors, 
major items of capital expenditure and Company borrowings. 
The Board is supplied with appropriate and timely information 
to enable it to discharge its duties and requests additional 
information as it requires. A procedure exists for Directors to seek 
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company 
and all Directors have access to the Company Secretary and may 
also address specific issues to the independent Non-Executive 
Director.
The Chairman undertakes a review of the performance of the 
Board and its Committees on an annual basis. The Chairman, 
where appropriate, makes recommendations to the Board 
to propose new members or seek the resignation of existing 
Directors.
Board Committees
The Board has a number of standing committees, all of which 
have written terms of reference setting out their authority and 
duties as follows: 
Audit Committee 
The committee met once during the period to review financial 
statements prior to the approval by the Board. The committee 
has consisted of one Non-Executive Director, Michael Edelson 
who reviews the financial statements prior to the approval by the 
Board. Although other Directors, including the Finance Director, 
attend audit committee meetings, the committee meets for private 
discussions with the external auditors. The Company does not 
comply with the guidance for composition (as required under  
D. 3. 1 of the Combined Code) as there is only one member. 
The audit committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Company' s policy on 
external audit. The policy assigns oversight responsibility for 
monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with 
ethical and regulatory requirements of the Audit Committee, and 
day-to-day responsibility to the Financial Director. The policy 
states that the external auditors are jointly responsible to the 
Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is 
the primary contact.
The Company' s policy on external audit sets out the categories 
of non-audit services which the external auditors will and will 
not be allowed to provide to the Company, subject to de minimis 
levels.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of external 
auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed:
l	 the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors' 
plan for the current year;
l	 the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit 
relationship;
l	 a report from the external auditors describing their 
arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflict of 
interests; and
l	 the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors, in	 addition to their case-by-case approval 
of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit 
Committee reviewed:
l	 the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors' 
independence and objectivity;
l	 the external auditors' fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and 
variations from the plan;
l	 the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
l	 the content of the external auditors' reporting on internal 
control. Worthington Group plc Report & Accounts Y ear Ended 31 March 2010
6
18155	 16/06/2010	 Proof	5
Report on Corporate Governance
As Clive Maudsley of auditors UHY Hacker Y oung Manchester 
LLP has acted as audit engagement partner to the company for 
five years then the Audit Committee reviewed this situation, 
in accordance with APB Ethical Standard 3 (Revised) Long 
Association with The Audit Engagement . The committee 
decided that, in the interests of audit quality, Clive Maudsley 
should remain as audit engagement partner for a further period 
not exceeding two years. This was therefore proposed to UHY 
Hacker Y oung Manchester LLP and they agreed to this proposal 
which will be annually reviewed.
Remuneration Committee 
The members of this committee are the Chairman and Chief 
Executive, Joe Dwek CBE, and the independent Non-Executive 
Director, Michael Edelson. The Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee is Joe Dwek, who the Company believes is the best 
person to chair the meeting. The committee meets as required 
but not less than once a year. Its responsibilities include making 
recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, 
on the Company' s framework of executive remuneration and 
its cost and determining on their behalf specific remuneration 
packages for each of the Executive Directors, including pension 
rights and share options.
Nomination Committee
The members of this committee are the Chairman and Chief 
Executive, Joe Dwek CBE, and the independent Non-Executive 
Director, Michael Edelson. The committee meets as required 
but not less than once a year. Its responsibilities include 
reviewing the Board structure, size and composition, nominating 
candidates to the Board to fill Board vacancies when they arise 
and recommending Directors who are retiring by rotation to 
be put forward for re-election. The Company does not comply 
with the guidance for composition (as required under A. 5. 1 
of the Combined Code) as a majority of members are not Non-
Executive.
Internal Control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company' s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide 
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
No internal audit function has been established. The costs of 
such a function outweigh any benefits given the close day-to-day 
involvement of the Directors in the Company' s activity.
The Combined Code recommended that Directors review the 
effectiveness of the Company' s system of internal control. This 
extends the previous recommendation in respect of financial 
controls to cover all controls including operational and 
compliance controls and risk management. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Company is in place and continued 
up to the date of approval of these accounts. This process accords 
with the current guidance and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The control framework established by the Directors to review the 
effectiveness of controls is as follows:
l	 The Company has a comprehensive budgeting system 
which covers profitability, assets, liabilities and cash flow. 
The budget is agreed by the Board which receives quarterly 
reports detailing all aspects of financial performance against 
budget. The Board also controls capital expenditure.
l	 The Board meets at least four times per annum and reviews 
the Company' s operational performance and strategy.
l	 The treasury function is undertaken by the Finance Director 
who does not enter into speculative derivative transactions.
l	 Financial controls have been established which are appropriate 
and these are regularly reviewed by the Finance Director. The 
Company does not have a dedicated internal audit function 
but rather uses its own financial staff to perform internal audit 
as and when required. This is considered to be appropriate 
given the size of the Company, the costs involved and the 
close involvement of management in the operations.
l	 The Board has specified procedures for the appraisal 
and authorisation of all capital expenditure. Projects are 
monitored as part of the quarterly reporting.
l	 The audit committee discusses internal control and also 
considers control issues raised by external auditors. 
All members of the committees attended all meetings.
At present the Company has not included the associated 
undertaking within its internal control review. However,  
John Taylor, previously Group Chief Executive is a Director of 
the associated undertaking and forwards all financial reports to 
the Board. 
Investor Relations
The Chairman and the Finance Director meet and communicate 
with institutional investors as appropriate and encourage 
communication through participation of investors at the Annual 
General Meeting and throughout the year. At the Annual General 
Meeting this year, full disclosure will be made of the proxy votes 
cast for and against each resolution.