 - 16 -
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  This statement describes how the Company 
applies the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Shareholder Relations
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable image of the Group's position and prospects by way 
of its Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report and press releases.  We have a web site (www.wyndeham.
co.uk) which provides information on all the companies in the Group and has updates on financial and operational 
developments.  The full Annual Report and Accounts and the half-year Interim Report are sent to all shareholders 
and are accessible on our web site.  Members of the Board hold regular meetings with institutional shareholders 
to discuss Group strategy and objectives and to gain an understanding of their views about the Company.
An overview of the Group's progress is presented at the Annual General Meeting and shareholders have the 
opportunity to raise matters of interest with the members of the Board.  The 2005 Annual Report and notice of 
the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 business days prior to the 2005 Annual General 
Meeting.
Membership of the Board Committees and a summary of their terms of reference are as follows:
The Board
The Company's Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and 
two other non-executive directors, both of whom, in the opinion of the Board, are independent.  The directors 
possess a range of experience to enable them to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the success of the Group. The Board is responsible to shareholders 
for the proper management of the Group.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for the running of the Board and for ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders. The Chief Executive is responsible for operations and for the development of strategic plans 
and initiatives for consideration by the Board. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive has been clearly established and agreed by the Board. John Jeremy is the Senior Independent Director 
of the Company.
The Chairman had no other significant commitments during the year.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. All directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition, the Company Secretary 
ensures that the directors have access to appropriate training as necessary. The non-executive directors have 
a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by executive directors are fully discussed and 
critically examined.
To enable them to fulfil their roles all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information. The Board 
meets regularly and not less than six times a year and there is frequent contact between meetings to progress the 
Company's business.
In addition to the roles described above, the non-executive directors play a major role on three key committees 
of the Board which are vital to effective corporate governance.  All directors, except the Chief Executive, are 
required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years. In accordance with the Code, the Board 
has reviewed the independence of Mr J L Jeremy, who has served on the Board in excess of nine years. The review 
concluded that Mr Jeremy is independent in character and in the exercise of his judgement and for these reasons 
the Board considers him to be independent. In accordance with the Code, Mr Jeremy will stand for annual re-
election at each Annual General Meeting.
The performance of the Board, its non-executive directors and sub-committees was formally evaluated during 
the year. The evaluation was conducted by means of a detailed questionnaire completed by all directors. The 
results of this questionnaire were compiled by the Company Secretary for review by the Chairman and the Board 
as a whole. The non-executive directors appraise the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all 
the directors individually, and together with the Chairman they appraise the performance of the Chief Executive. 
The performance of the executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and the 
Chairman. - 17 -
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(continued)
The Chairman meets periodically with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to 
discuss a range of issues including strategy, financial performance, progress towards targets and the performance 
of the executive directors. 
During the year ended 31 March 2005 the Board met 9 times to deal with regular business, this is felt to be 
adequate to enable effective running of the Company. The attendance record of individual Directors at Board and 
Committee meetings is detailed below.
Board
Meetings
Audit
committee
Remuneration
committee
Nomination
committee
Number of meetings in year 9 3 2 1
A J Austin 7 - - -
P A W Barber 9 3 2 1
B S Bedson 9 - 2 1
E R Heron 9 - - -
P S Hollebone 9 - - -
J L Jeremy 9 3 2 1
R E Kingston (appointed 5 April 2004) 8 - - -
P G Utting 9 - - -
R Stokell (resigned 16 July 2004) 1 1 - -
Audit Committee
Members: P A W Barber , J L Jeremy (Chairman), R Stokell
Terms of reference: To assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities for corporate governance, financial 
reporting and corporate control, and to keep under review the scope and results of the 
external audit and its cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the 
auditors. At some of the meetings the external auditors and the Finance Director are asked 
to attend. The Committee also meets with the external auditors in private.
 The Committee reviews all published accounts and post audit findings before their 
presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies, compliance, 
management judgement and estimates. It also monitors the Group's internal control and 
risk management regime (including the effectiveness of the internal audit function) and 
financial reporting. Any significant findings or identified weaknesses are closely examined so 
that appropriate action can be taken, monitored and reported to the Board. 
 The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and 
on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of their audit work. The Committee has adopted 
a policy which prohibits certain types of non-audit work that may be performed by the 
Company's auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and independence would be at 
risk. Other non-audit work which may be provided by the auditor is put to tender where 
considered appropriate. The Audit Committee also assesses the overall objectivity of the 
auditors' services so that an independent professional relationship is maintained. Details of 
the auditors' remuneration appear in note 4 to the accounts. - 18 -
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(continued)
Remuneration Committee
Members: P A W Barber, J L Jeremy (Chairman)
Terms of reference: To recommend to the Board the remuneration policies for executive directors.  To determine 
the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman.
Nomination Committee
Members: P A W Barber, B S Bedson, J L Jeremy (Chairman)
Terms of reference:  To review the composition and structure of the Board and to identify and recommend 
candidates for executive and non-executive positions, based on the required role and 
capabilities which have been specified for their appointment. Executive search consultants 
are used by the Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such a 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group's 
significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 March 2005 and up to the date of approval of the 
annual report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the internal control 
guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
The Board receives reports setting out key performance and risk indicators and considers possible control issues 
brought to their attention by early warning mechanisms which are embedded within the operational units and 
reinforced by risk awareness training.  The Board and the audit committee also receive regular reports from the 
internal audit and  health, safety and environmental monitoring' functions which include recommendations for 
improvement.  The audit committee's role in this area is confined to a high-level review of the arrangements for 
internal financial control.  The Board's agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and control and 
receives reports thereon from the audit committee.  The emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance 
and not merely reporting by exception.  
At its June 2005 meeting, the Board carried out the annual assessment for the year ended 31 March 2005 by 
considering documentation from management and internal audit and taking account of events since 31 March 
2005.
Auditor independence
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence or 
violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors. Approval of the Board is required prior 
to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external auditors. The external auditors report to the Audit 
Committee annually on their independence from the Company, including periodic rotation of key partners.
Compliance with the code provisions
The directors consider that the Company has, during the year ended 31 March 2005 complied with the requirements 
of the revised Combined Code except as follows:
Specified Terms of Appointment
The non-executive directors have not been appointed for specified terms.  Under the Company's articles one third 
of the directors must stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting and therefore the Board feel that 
specified terms for non-executive directors are unnecessary.
From 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2005 Mr Bedson had the dual role of Chief Executive and Chairman, this is a breach 
of the Combined Code provision A2.1. From 1 April 2005 he relinquished his role of Chief Executive but continues 
as Chairman. On appointment as Chairman he did not meet the independence criteria required by Code provision 
A2.2.