 The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose in the Annual Report how they have
applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code )
published in July 2003.
Compliance
During the year ended 30th September 2006, the Board of Directors have complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code,
except where described and explained below.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, one independent Non-executive Director and two Executive Directors
including the Chief Executive. Brief biographical details of each of the Directors appear on page 9. The Board meets
regularly throughout the year and is responsible for establishing the development and investment strategies of the Company
as well as their funding and implementation. It monitors the trading activities of the business and the performance of
management against agreed targets. 
The Non-executive Directors have experience, gained from commercial and financial backgrounds, which enables 
them to make a constructive contribution to the Company. The Board are satisfied that Mr Ian Fleming can be regarded as
independent as provided for in Provision A.3.1 of the Combined Code. Mr Fleming has acted as the senior independent
Director since the retirement of Mr Rupert Soames. The appointment of additional or replacement Directors is a matter for
consideration by the Board in conjunction with the Nominations Committee. Although the Board does not consider that
limitation on the period of service of Directors, other than as provided in the Articles of Association, is appropriate to the
circumstances of the Company, there is currently no independent Director who has served more than six years. 
Prior to the retirement of Mr Rupert Soames on 14th February 2006 there were two independent Non-executive Directors.
The services of Norman Broadbent, executive search consultants, were then retained to identify and help appoint an
additional Non-executive Director but this process was suspended following the approach, and subsequent pre-conditional
offer, by Wienerberger Finance Service BV.
Committees of the Board
Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee
The Board operates separate Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Prior to 14th February 2006, Mr Rupert Soames
was Chairman of these committees, and following his retirement on that date, Mr Ian Fleming assumed the role of
Chairman of the committees. Mr Ian Fleming and Mr Alexander Ward served on both committees throughout the relevant
period. The terms of reference of the committees are available on request. There have been no separate meetings of the
Nominations Committee during the year since, in view of the size of the Board, it was considered more appropriate for the
parameters for appointment of the prospective additional Non-executive Director to be considered by the Board as a whole.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises Mr Ian Fleming (Chairman) and Mr Alexander Ward. The Committee meets at
least twice a year and receives reports from the auditors, who may attend meetings. The Committee reviews the interim and
annual financial statements, considers the impact of actual and proposed changes to accounting regulations which may
affect the Company and reviews statutory and external compliance requirements and internal control and risk management
procedures. The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors and advises the Board on their
appointment and on their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work. The terms of reference of the Committee are
available on request. 
Although Mr Ward is not regarded as an independent Director the Board believe that, notwithstanding the provisions of
Provisions B.2.1 and C.3.1 of the Combined Code, in view of his knowledge of the business his non-involvement in the
routine management and the existence of an independent Chairman of the Committees, his continued membership of 
the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2006
Corporate Governance
page 14
28035 PRE  9/1/07  10:45 pm  Page 14 page 15
Operations Board
The Board have established an Operations Board comprising the Chairman, the Executive Directors and other senior
executives of the Company, as set out on page 8. The Chairman acts in a non-executive capacity, with no direct operational
responsibilities, and other Non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend the meetings. The Operations Board is
responsible for the day to day management and operations of the Company within the strategic parameters set by the 
Board of Directors and for the review of the performance of operating units against agreed budgets.
Board meetings are held at regular intervals and the Board Committees meet as required. The number of full scheduled
Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year were as follows:-
Scheduled Audit
Board meeting Committee
A. E. G. Ward 12 (12) 2 (2)
R. C. Soames (prior to retirement on 14th February 2006) 5 (5) 1 (1)
I. J. Fleming 11 (12) 2 (2)
A. M. Baxter 12 (12) - (-)
M. P. Haines 12 (12) - (-)
The numbers in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during the period when the individual was a 
Board member.
There were no meetings of the Remuneration Committee or the Nominations Committee during the year.
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 19 describes the Company's remuneration policy and the extent of its compliance
with the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are actively involved in investor relations and they report the views of
shareholders to the Board. Individual shareholders are made welcome at the annual general meeting where they have 
the opportunity to meet and ask questions of the Directors, including the Chairman, as well as the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committees. The Company's annual report, interim statement and other announcements
are published on the website www.baggeridge.co.uk.
Accountability and internal controls
The Board have overall responsibility for the systems of internal control within the Company and for reviewing the
effectiveness of the Company's systems of internal control. Although no system of internal control can provide absolute
assurance against any material misstatement or loss, the systems are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable
assurance that any material problems would be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately. 
The Board have established a framework for internal control and risk assessment to safeguard the Company's assets in
accordance with the guidance on internal control issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales 
in September 1999. The Board have taken an active part in the identification of potential financial and non-financial risks,
which are kept under review, and have identified the appropriate executive management responsibilities. There are regular
committee meetings of executives from relevant disciplines within the Company to consider various areas of operations and
to consider the potential risks arising, including matters such as health and safety, information technology, environmental,
quality and energy issues, continuity of supplies, personnel and training. These committee meetings are attended or chaired
by the Chief Executive or Finance Director and salient matters arising therefrom are reported to the Board.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2006
28035 PRE  9/1/07  10:45 pm  Page 15 Other features of the internal control systems are as follows:
- an organisation structure with clear reporting lines and authority levels;
- comprehensive annual budgets for each operating unit are prepared centrally in conjunction with local management
and are agreed by the Board before adoption;
- actual performance is monitored by means of weekly trading statements and full monthly management accounts;
- variances against budget are discussed with operating management at monthly review meetings, salient matters from
which form the basis of monthly reports to the Board;
- a number of key functions such as treasury management, taxation and insurance are controlled centrally in accordance
with policy discussed and agreed by the Board.
The effectiveness of the system of internal controls has been reviewed by the Board for the period from the commencement
of the financial year to the date of approval of these financial statements. In view of the foregoing procedures, the Board 
do not believe that a formal Internal Audit function is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company but will keep the
matter under review.
Treasury management
The Company considers the main treasury risks relate to the adequacy of funding and interest rate fluctuations. There is 
no significant exposure to currency risk as only a small proportion of the Company's foreign sales and purchases are
transacted in currencies other than sterling. The Board reviews the policy for management of these risks and approves 
new banking facilities.
Liquidity is managed such that the Company has adequate borrowing facilities with an appropriate maturity profile to meet
forecast requirements. The Company reviews borrowing requirements by reference to its medium term plans and arranges
facilities as required. At 30th September 2006, the Company had  7.0 million of committed facilities. Surplus funds are
invested on short term deposit.
Interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed rate and floating rate debt. Currently, no derivative products are 
in use. At 30th September 2006, 100 per cent (2005: 100 per cent) of the Company's borrowings, as set out in Note 13 
to the Financial Statements, was at fixed rates. The Company reviews interest rate exposure on borrowings and may take
out appropriate financial instruments to manage interest rate exposures. 
As the Company has only limited exposure to foreign currencies, no derivative products to hedge against currency
fluctuations are in place.
Audit
In addition to the statutory audit function fulfilled by the Company's Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, they and their associated
firm provide assistance on taxation matters and provide other statutory or regulatory review and reporting services as
required. It is the Board's policy in respect of non-audit services to ensure that the most appropriate advisers are used taking
account of the need for both relevant experience and objectivity. The Audit Committee have received from the Auditors a
letter summarising their procedures for safeguarding independence and objectivity and confirming their independence.
Board evaluation
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of its operations,
including the Committees of the Board. This review included completion of an assessment questionnaire by each member
of the Board followed by a searching discussion of the results and consideration of the options for improvement in
procedures where opportunities for improvement were perceived.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2006
Corporate Governance
page 16
28035 PRE  9/1/07  10:45 pm  Page 16