 Governance
Yell Group plc   Annual Report - Year ended 31 March 2012 37
The following report details how the Board has
applied the principles in the Financial Reporting
Council's UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the
Code ), as required by the UK Listing Rules.
Where we were not compliant in
the period, but the matter has
now been rectified
From February 2011 until the appointment of
Elizabeth Chambers to the Board and the
Remuneration Committee in January 2012, we were
not compliant with the Code, as the Remuneration
Committee composition did not have three
independent, non-executive directors as members.
This has now been rectified as the current members
are Toby Coppel, Kathleen Flaherty, Elizabeth
Chambers and Bob Wigley.
The Board
The Board comprises two executive directors and
seven non-executive directors. Six out of the seven
non-executive directors are considered independent
by the Company. John Coghlan has now been a
member of the Board, and Chairman of the Audit
Committee since July 2003, reaching nine years'
continued service in this role. Mr Coghlan may no
longer be considered to be independent under the
Code having served on the Board for nine years.
However, his objectivity, diligence and willingness to
challenge management have not been
compromised in any way by his tenure on the Board
and so the Board, on recommendation of the
Nomination Committee considers Mr Coghlan to be
independent. Mr Coghlan has been annually
re-elected by our shareholders from 2003 to date,
and is submitted for re-election at the forthcoming
AGM, primarily to provide Audit Committee
oversight to putting the new capital structure in
place. We wish to retain his experience to deal with
that process and any new Audit Committee
chairman will want to see that process complete
before joining.
Elizabeth Chambers joined the Board and
Remuneration Committee in January 2012 as our
second, female independent, non-executive director,
bringing a variety of new skills and experience to
the Board.
The Chairman, Bob Wigley, was independent upon
his appointment.
The executive directors are Mike Pocock (CEO) and
Tony Bates (CFO).
Richard Hooper is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Hooper and all non-executive directors are
available to shareholders who wish to raise issues.
Richard Hooper provides a sounding board for the
Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the
other directors when necessary.
It has always been our policy that all directors stand
for re-election (or, in the case of newly appointed
directors, election) each year.
Biographies of all our directors seeking election or
re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting
appear on pages 34 to 36.
The Nomination Committee, on behalf of the Board
also reviews the extent of our directors'
commitments outside Yell, to ensure that those
commitments are not detrimental to Yell or the
e ciency of the Board. Both Mike Pocock and Tony
Bates (executive directors) are full-time directors of
companies within the Yell Group and have no other
commitments to external companies.
Details of our executive directors' service contracts
and our non-executive directors' letters of
appointment can also be found in the Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee report on pages 44 to
52. Non-executive directors' letters of appointment
set out fixed time commitments of at least one day
per month and all our directors are expected to
demonstrate their commitment to the work of the
Board on an ongoing basis. In the case of our
Chairman, his contracted time commitment is at
least 25 days per year, although during the
refinancing, strategic review and executive
management succession process, he has been
engaged on Yell business on considerably more days
than this.
Statement of application of principles of
the UK Corporate Governance Code
61602_Brand Glue_p37-p52.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/12  04:33  Page 37 38 Yell Group plc   Annual Report - Year ended 31 March 2012
Statement of application of principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code continued
Operation of the Board
The Board has overall responsibility for leading and
controlling Yell and is accountable to shareholders
for financial and operational performance. Our
Board is also responsible for the open and
transparent communication of information relevant
to this performance.
Our Board recognises the division in responsibility
between our Chairman (who ensures the e ective
working of the Board) and our Chief Executive
O cer (who runs the Group). The Board has agreed
and reviewed in the reporting period, a schedule of
matters reserved for its decision, which includes
the approval of financial statements, significant
acquisitions, Group strategy, and governance
policies. The written schedule also sets out the
extent of the various delegated authorities granted
by our Board to our Board Committees and our
senior management team.
Our directors have access to the services of the
Company Secretary, Christian Wells. Mr Wells acts as
secretary for all the Board Committees, and he
works with our Chairman to ensure all directors
receive su cient and timely information to enable
the Board to run e ciently.
Relations with Shareholders
Yell is committed to ongoing communication with its
shareholders and other stakeholders. This was
achieved through:
  Regular dialogue and presentations throughout
the year to our institutional investors
  Yell's Strategy Days, held on 14 July 2011 and
15 September 2011, to present the results of our
strategic review to our shareholder and lender
communities
  Our executive directors, Press O ce, Company
Secretary's o ce, Investor Relations team and CR
manager engaging with stakeholders on wider
issues relating to the Group
  The issuing of interim management statements,
half year and full year results releases
  Timely announcements made through the London
Stock Exchange regulatory news service, where
our shares are listed
  Our Annual General Meeting, which gives all our
shareholders the opportunity to hear first hand
from our Board of Directors and to raise
questions. At our 2011 Annual General Meeting,
our directors (including the Chairmen of each
Committee) were present, and informally met
with our shareholders after the meeting. All
proposed resolutions are put to a poll vote.
Shareholders who might not be able to attend the
meeting are encouraged to vote by proxy. The
Annual General Meeting voting results were
published through the London Stock Exchange
and on our website immediately after the
meeting
  Sections dedicated to our shareholders on the
Company's corporate website, yellgroup.com.
Training and induction
The Board received refresher training on Directors'
Duties under the Companies Act 2006, prior to the
refinancing and covenant reset at the end of
calendar year 2011. Ongoing updates on the
Company's implementation of the requirements of
the Bribery Act 2010 have also been provided.
In-depth presentations relating to Yell's strategic
initiatives and product developments have been
provided to the Board throughout the year by senior
management.Adaydevotedtothediscussionof
the new strategy by the Board took place in June
2011, and such strategy updates and in-depth
discussions will continue to take place on a regular
basis.
The Company Secretary provided an induction pack
and briefing to Elizabeth Chambers when she joined
Yell, setting out her duties and responsibilities as a
non-executive director, the terms of reference of the
Board and its Committees, and other current
regulatory and legal information.
Analysts' and brokers' research and other relevant
news and opinions are provided to all directors
through the Board's dedicated website.
61602_Brand Glue_p37-p52.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/12  04:33  Page 38 Governance
Yell Group plc   Annual Report - Year ended 31 March 2012 39
Independent advice
Our directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at Yell's expense, about fulfilling their
duties. Yell has also arranged appropriate Directors' and O cers' insurance cover in respect of legal action
against the directors.
Meeting frequency
Our Board is scheduled to meet at least six times in any calendar year, with an extra day devoted solely to a
full discussion about our strategy.
The following table shows the individual attendance by our directors at the Board and Committee meetings in
the reporting period. Various ad hoc meetings held by telephone and sub-committee meetings are not
detailed in the table below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent
Bob Wigley 8 - 7 - 1 -
Mike Pocock 8 -
Tony Bates 8 -
John Coghlan 8 - 4 - 1 -
Toby Coppel 7 1 7 - 1 -
Carlos Espinosa 7 1 4 -
Kathleen Flaherty 8 - 7 -
Richard Hooper 6 2 4 - 1 -
Directors who joined in the
reporting period
Elizabeth Chambers 2 - 2 -
Committees
The following Committees have been established under the overall direction of our Board. Each Committee
has written terms of reference that are published on our website at yellgroup.com. The chairmanship,
membership and terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed on an annual basis. The following table
shows each Committee's current composition.
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Status Committee Committee Committee
Bob Wigley Chairman, Member Chairman
non-executive director
Elizabeth Chambers Independent, Member
non-executive director
John Coghlan Independent, Chairman Member
non-executive director
Toby Coppel Independent, Chairman Member
non-executive director
Carlos Espinosa Independent, Member
de los Monteros non-executive director
Kathleen Flaherty Independent, Member
non-executive director
Richard Hooper Non-executive, Member Member
Senior Independent
Director
61602_Brand Glue_p37-p52.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/12  04:33  Page 39