 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2005
www.yougov.com
13
Application of the principles of good governance
The Board has reviewed the requirements of the Combined Code, as 
appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The ways in  
which the Company applies and complies with the principles of the Code 
are described below and, in respect of remuneration, on page 12.
The Board
At 31 July 2005 the Board consisted of 5 executive directors and 2 non-
executive directors, including a senior non-executive director. The names 
of the directors and their respective responsibilities are shown on pages 8 
and 9.
The Board operates both formally, through Board and Committee meetings, 
and informally, through regular contact amongst directors. High level 
decisions on such matters as strategy, financial performance and reporting, 
dividends, risk management, major capital expenditure, acquisitions and 
disposals are reserved for the Board or Board Committees. For its regular 
formal meetings, the Board receives appropriate information in advance 
from management.
The directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company's 
own expense in performance of their duties as directors.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new directors. All 
directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual 
General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent to this at the 
Annual General Meeting on a rotational basis, which ensures that each 
director is submitted for re-election approximately every 3 years. Proposals 
to re-elect directors are set out in the Directors' Report on page 10 and in 
the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 28.
Board committees 
Remuneration Committee - The Remuneration Committee was 
established at the time of flotation. The composition of the Remuneration 
Committee is shown on page 12 and the statement of the remuneration 
policy developed by the Committee and details of each director's 
remuneration are given within the Directors' Remuneration Report set  
out on page 12.
Audit Committee - The composition of the Audit Committee is shown 
below. The Audit Committee operates under terms of reference agreed by 
the whole Board and meets with the auditors to consider the Company's 
financial reporting in advance of its publication.
Board and committee attendance
The following table sets out the attendance of directors at Board and 
committee meetings during 2005.
 
    Remuneration Audit 
  Board Committee Committee 
  meetings  meetings meetings 
Director  Maximum 12 Maximum 2 Maximum 2
Peter Kellner  12 - - 
Nadhim Zahawi  12 - - 
Stephan Shakespeare  12 - - 
Katherine Lee*   2 - - 
Panos Manolopoulos  12 - - 
Peter Bazalgette*   4 2 2 
Anthony Foye*   4 2 2
*New directors in year who attended all possible meetings
Shareholder communications
The Board's assessment of the Company's position and prospects are set 
out in the chairman's statement on page 2 and the Operating and Financial 
Review on pages 5 to 7.
The executive directors meet regularly with institutional shareholders 
to discuss the Company's performance and future prospects. At these 
meeting the views of institutional shareholders are canvassed and 
subsequently reported back to the Board. The Annual General Meeting  
is used as a forum for communication with private shareholders.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board considers that the Company has worked hard towards compliance 
with the Combined Code. Full compliance has not yet been achieved 
and the Board and Audit Committee monitor the Company's compliance 
on a regular basis. The directors have commenced a detailed review of 
the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including financial, 
operational, compliance and risk management. This assessment will result 
in a detailed action plan, which once actioned, will lead to full compliance.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the 2 non-executive directors, Anthony 
Foye (its Chairman) and Peter Bazalgette. All members of the Committee 
have relevant financial experience due to the senior positions they hold or 
have held in the past.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken. In particular the Committee  
is responsible for:
   Ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly 
monitored and reported.
  Monitoring the formal announcements relating to financial performance.
  Meeting the auditors and agreeing audit strategy.
   Reviewing reports from the auditors and management relating to 
accounts and internal control systems.
   Making recommendations to the Board in respect of external auditor 
appointment and remuneration.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems is under constant review 
and a formal assessment of internal controls has commenced. The Audit 
Committee will monitor implementation of a series of detailed steps to 
improve the control environment. Although there was no formal internal 
audit during the year, the accounting functions were subject to periodic 
internal review.
Key control and procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, 
financial, organisational and compliance issues, and has put in place an 
organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation 
of authority.
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior to 
approval being given. This includes the identification and assessment of the 
business risks inherent in the Group and the publishing sector as a whole 
along with associated financial risks.
Corporate Governance Report YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2005
www.yougov.com
14
The system of internal financial control is designed to provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key 
procedures include:
   Detailed budgeting programme with an annual budget approved by  
the Board.
   Regular review by the Board of actual results compared with budget  
and forecasts.
   Regular reviews by the Board of year end forecasts.
   Establishment of procedures for acquisitions, capital expenditure and 
expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business.
   Detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred on the development 
of new products.
   Established procedures for credit evaluation of new and existing 
customers with credit insurance on material customer accounts.
   Reporting to, and review by, the Board of changes in legislation and 
practices within the sector and accounting and legal developments 
pertinent to the Company.
   Appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff to take responsibility 
for key business functions to ensure maintenance of high standards of 
performance.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' 
independence each year which includes:
   Confirmation of the auditors' objectivity and independence in the 
provision of non-audit services to the Company by the use of separate 
teams to provide such services where appropriate.
   Discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing relationships with 
the Company and any other parties that could affect independence or the 
perception of independence.
   A review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring independence of 
the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the 
regular rotation of the audit partner.
   Obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional 
judgement, they are independent.
Any analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of  
both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 1 of  
the accounts.
Risk management
The Board reviews risks facing the business on a regular basis. The 
following paragraphs demonstrate the key areas of identified risk. 
Early stage of development - Although the Company has grown 
substantially since it was formed 5 years ago, it remains a relatively 
small company in an early stage of development. The Company faces 
competition from both large established international companies as well  
as small local businesses operating in the same sector.
Projected growth - The Company's plans incorporate substantial growth 
in the coming years. This growth will be in part dependent on the marketing 
and research budgets of target clients over which YouGov has little control. 
Additionally, while political polling activity is a relatively minor proportion of 
current and expected revenue, it should be noted that variations within the 
political cycle will mean some variation in this part of YouGov's revenue.
Competition - YouGov has developed a wholly Internet based research 
strategy which other large and established research organisations are 
also beginning to adopt. Some of these more established research 
organisations have well developed brands and substantial resources may 
be able to use these to compete effectively in developing online panels and 
competing software.
Staff - The success of YouGov will be influenced by the recruitment 
and retention of high calibre staff. Senior staff that manage key client 
relationships and those with software expertise are particularly important 
to the continuing development and smooth running of the Company. To 
mitigate this risk, YouGov is building account and project management 
teams for key clients and larger research projects. In this way the client 
relationship and project related knowledge are shared among a number  
of individuals rather than concentrated with one person.
Acquisitions - The directors plan to expand and develop the business 
through a strategy of targeted acquisitions. The risk exists that integration of 
any acquired business will be unsuccessful or that key employees or clients 
of the acquired business will be lost. Directors will attempt to mitigate this 
risk by careful due diligence and communication with the clients of target 
companies. The directors will also seek to communicate YouGov's strategy 
to staff and ensure that levels of remuneration and benefits are appropriate 
to retain key employees.
The Company may be unable to agree suitable terms with the shareholders 
of a target company and be forced to abandon an attempted takeover. This 
may happen after management have invested significant amounts of time 
and effort as well as accruing advisers' fees.
Technology and risk - A strong software platform is essential for 
carrying out online research. This software must be reviewed and updated 
on a regular basis to ensure that it does not become superseded by 
newer technologies in other companies. YouGov has sought to remain 
competitive in this area by recruiting an experienced team of software 
specialists with responsibility for developing the proprietary software 
systems. Employees in this area must provide 3 months' notice on 
departure and YouGov has developed a succession planning document 
with sufficient detail on the structure of proprietary software applications 
and the IT infrastructure to assist in an orderly transition period in the event 
of staff leaving. A disaster recovery plan is being worked on. 
Internal controls - As the business transforms from a small private 
company to a listed we are improving our internal controls and systems  
of reporting.
Corporate Governance Report continued 