 31

Annual Report and Accounts 2012

Y ouGov is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 as it is listed on the AIM Index but the Board considers 
that the Group should work towards compliance with it. Full compliance has not yet been achieved and the Board and Audit Committee 
monitor the Company's compliance on a regular basis. A copy of the Code is publicly available at www .frc.org.uk.

At 31 July 2012, the Board consisted of three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman and 
the senior Non-Executive Director . The names of the Directors and their respective responsibilities are shown on page 22 - 23. 
The Board operates both formally , through Board and Committee meetings, and informally , through regular contact amongst Directors. 
High level decisions on such matters as strategy , financial performance and reporting, dividends, risk management, major capital 
expenditure, acquisitions and disposals are reserved for the Board or Board Committees. For its regular formal meetings, the Board 
receives appropriate information in advance from management.
The Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company's own expense in the performance of their duties as Directors.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new Directors. All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the 
first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent to this at the Annual General Meeting on a rotational basis, 
which ensures that each Director is submitted for re-election approximately every three years. Proposals to re-elect Directors have been 
set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.

 - The Remuneration Committee was established at the time of flotation. The composition of the 
Remuneration Committee is shown below and the statement of the remuneration policy developed by the Committee and details 
of each Directors' remuneration are given within the Directors' Remuneration Report set out on pages 28 - 30.
 - The composition of the Audit Committee is shown below. The Audit Committee operates under terms of 
reference agreed by the whole Board and meets with the external auditors to consider the Company's financial reporting in 
advance of its  publication.

The following table sets out the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2011/12.












Stephan Shakespeare 8- -
Alan Newman 8-2 (in attendance)
Roger Parry 8-1 (in attendance)
Peter Bazalgette 72 1
Nick Jones 82 2
Ben Elliot 7- -
Doug Rivers 8- -

The Board's assessment of the Company's position and prospects are set out in the Chairman's statement on pages 8 - 9 and the 
Chief Financial Officer's Report on pages 20 - 21.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with institutional shareholders to discuss the Company's performance and future prospects. 
At these meetings the views of institutional shareholders are canvassed and subsequently reported back to the Board. The Annual 
General Meeting is used as a forum for communication with private shareholders.
Governance
Corporate Governance Report
for the year ended 31 July 2012 32

Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued
for the year ended 31 July 2012

The Audit Committee comprises the two Non-Executive Directors, Nick Jones (its Chairman) and Peter Bazalgette. Nick Jones has recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, 
and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken. In particular the Committee is responsible for:
  ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported;
  monitoring the formal announcements relating to financial performance;
  meeting the external auditors and agreeing audit strategy;
  reviewing reports from the auditors and management relating to accounts and internal control systems; and
  making recommendations to the Board in respect of external auditor appointment and remuneration.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems is under constant review and a formal assessment of internal controls has been 
conducted. The Audit Committee will monitor the implementation of a series of detailed steps to improve the control environment. 
Although there was no formal internal audit during the year , the accounting functions were subject to periodic internal review. 
As the business continues to grow we keep the Group's need for an internal audit function under constant review.

The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, 
and has put in place an organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority . 
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior to approval being given. This includes the identification and 
assessment of the business risks inherent in the Group and the media sector as a whole along with associated financial risks.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives in addition to 
providing reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. These include controls in relation to the financial 
reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts. These procedures have been in place during the financial year 
up to the date of approval of the annual report. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the 
Turnbull guidance. The key procedures include;
  detailed budgeting programme with an annual budget approved by the Board;
  regular review by the Board of actual results compared with budget and forecasts;
  regular reviews by the Board of year end forecasts;
  establishment of procedures for acquisitions, capital expenditure and expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business;
  detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred on the development of new products;
  reporting to, and review by , the Board of changes in legislation and practices within the sector and accounting and legal developments 
pertinent to the Company;
  appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff to take responsibility for key business functions to ensure maintenance of high 
standards of performance; and
  appraisal and approval of proposed acquisitions by the Board. 33

Annual Report and Accounts 2012

The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year which includes:
  confirmation of the auditors' objectivity and independence in the provision of non-audit services to the Company by the use of 
separate teams to provide such services where appropriate;
  discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence;
  a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, 
including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
  obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
Any analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in 
Note 2 to the financial statements.

The Board reviews risks facing the business on a regular basis. The following paragraphs describe the principal risks and 
uncertainties identified. 
 - Although the Company has grown substantially since it was formed ten years ago, it remains a relatively 
small company in an early stage of development. The Company faces competition from both large established international companies 
as well as small local businesses operating in the same sector .
 - The Group is exposed to currency risk as the Group operates in multiple geographic regions. This manifests 
itself in different forms. We seek to reduce this risk by invoicing in local currency thus reducing exposure in normal trading. The Group is 
exposed to currency translation risk in the consolidation of accounting records. The main reporting currencies of group subsidiaries are 
Sterling, US Dollar , Euro, Danish Kroner and Arab Emirate Dirham. 
 - The Company's plans incorporate continued growth in the coming years. This growth will be in part dependent on 
the marketing and research budgets of target clients over which Y ouGov has little control. This is mitigated through effective key client 
relationship management and continually reviewing order pipelines and sales targets. 
 - Y ouGov has developed an internet based research strategy which other large and established research organisations are 
also beginning to adopt. Some of these more established research organisations have well developed brands and substantial resources 
and may be able to use these to compete very effectively in developing online panels and competing software. This is achieved by the 
use of patents and trademarks where appropriate and also by managing our T echnology risk as detailed below .
 - The success of YouGov will be influenced by the recruitment and retention of high calibre staff. Senior staff that manage 
key client relationships and those with software expertise are particularly important to the continuing development and smooth 
running of the Company . To mitigate this risk, YouGov has built account and project management teams for key clients and larger 
research projects. In this way the client relationships and project related knowledge are shared among a number of individuals 
rather than concentrated with one person. We also incentivise key personnel through participation in long term incentive 
programmes such as the LTIP share option scheme.
 - Y ouGov now has wide geographical spread. Monitoring and reporting these businesses performance relies 
upon the operation of key controls. There is a risk that these controls may not operate effectively in each jurisdiction.
 - The Directors plan to expand and develop the business through a strategy of targeted acquisitions. The risk exists 
that integration of any acquired business will be unsuccessful or that key employees or clients of the acquired business will be lost. 
Directors will attempt to mitigate this risk by careful due diligence and communication with the clients of target companies. 
The Directors will also seek to communicate YouGov's strategy to staff and ensure that levels of remuneration and benefits 
are appropriate to retain key employees.
 - A strong software platform is essential for carrying out online research. This software must be reviewed and updated 
on a regular basis to ensure that it does not become superseded by newer technologies in other companies. YouGov has sought to 
remain competitive in this area by recruiting an experienced team of software specialists with responsibility for developing the proprietary 
software systems. Employees in this area must provide three months' notice on departure and YouGov has developed a succession 
planning document with sufficient detail on the structure of proprietary software applications and the IT infrastructure to assist in an 
orderly transition period in the event of staff leaving. A disaster recovery plan is in place and is reviewed by the Audit Committee annually .