 Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2011 14 www.zetarplc.com
Corporate 
governance
ComPlianCe
This report sets out Zetar's approach to ensuring that governance structures are in place to ensure compliance with the principles 
contained in the Quoted Companies Alliance's Corporate Governance Guidelines for Smaller Quoted Companies  (the QCA Code ) 
and also the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, although not obligatory for AIM-listed companies, taking into account 
the Group's size and structure.
The Board - iT s role and C omPosiTion
The Board is responsible to its shareholders for the effective leadership of the Group. Throughout the year the Board comprised 
the Chairman, three Executive Directors and two independent Non-executive Directors. Biographies of each Director can be found 
on page 13.
The Board considers that its current members provide an adequate balance of operational and financial experience to grow, control 
and safeguard its business. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible 
for ensuring that Board procedures are followed. There is also a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional 
advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
The Chairman's role is clearly defined and separate from the Chief Executive. The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda 
and ensuring the Board's effectiveness. The Chief Executive is responsible for day-to-day management of the Group and for implementation 
of strategy. The Non-executives, who are both independent, are encouraged to challenge the strategic development of the Group.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, one-third of all Directors are subject to annual re-appointment 
by shareholders. The Board is monitoring developments in response to the UK Corporate Governance Code's requirement for 
directors of FTSE-350 companies to seek annual re-election.
Board ProCess
The Board met on twelve occasions during the year, including one meeting at a Confectionery division site and one meeting 
at a Natural Snacks division site, at which the local management team were required to present to the Board. The table below 
shows the attendance of individual Directors at the meetings:
Number of Board meetings          12
David Williams          10
Marion Sears          12
Roger Matthews          11
Ian Blackburn          12
Clive Beecham          12
Mark Stott          12
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including Group strategy, risk review, acquisition policy, the 
approval of major capital expenditure and approval of annual budgets. The Board also approves the interim and full year accounts 
and also all trading updates and announcements. The requirement for Board approval and the delegation of other Board authority 
is communicated throughout the Group.
An annual timetable is agreed in advance each year to ensure that all governance matters and business topics are scheduled into 
Board meetings. To ensure good quality debate at the meetings, Board papers are circulated beforehand, thereby allowing the 
Directors time to consider and then challenge/debate recommendations put before them.
Board PerformanCe evalua Tion
The Board is committed to ensuring it is effective and that it allocates its time appropriately between strategy, performance and 
governance. Therefore, on an annual basis, the Board evaluates its performance. This process commences with a self-assessment 
questionnaire, the results of which are then summarised by a Non-executive Director in order to facilitate a meaningful discussion, 
led by the Chairman, at a subsequent Board meeting. Any actions arising are followed-up to ensure that areas for improvements 
are addressed.
inTernal ConTrol and risk managemenT
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's assets, 
as well as reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss and misstatement.  Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2011 15 www.zetarplc.com
inTernal ConTrol and risk managemenT continued
The key control procedures operating within the Group include, but are not limited to: 
1.  a comprehensive system of financial budgeting, forecasting and then reporting and reviewing actual monthly results for the 
current year against these expectations and against the results of prior years; 
2. a system of operational and financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs ), which are reviewed on a weekly and monthly basis; 
3. procedures for appraisal, review and authorisation of capital expenditure;
4. properly authorised treasury procedures and banking arrangements;
5. regular review of materials and services supply agreements; and
6. regular review of tax, insurance and health and safety matters. 
The principal financial KPIs monitored by the Board relate to revenue, operating margins, EPS and cashflow. Operational KPIs monitored 
by the Board include health and safety statistics and customer complaints. Within Group operating subsidiaries, production KPIs 
appropriate to each manufacturing facility are reviewed by local senior management on a weekly and monthly basis.
At this stage in the Group's development, the Board does not consider it appropriate to establish an internal audit function.
The Board considers that risk-management is an integral part of good business process and, on a bi-annual basis, reviews the industry, 
operational and financial risks facing the Group and considers the adequacy of the controls & mitigants to manage the risks. An overview 
of the principal risks faced by the Group is set out on pages 17 to 18, incorporated into the Directors' Report.
Board C ommiTTees 
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees comprise the Non-executive Directors, David Williams, Marion Sears 
and Roger Matthews. Ian Blackburn is also a member of the Nominations Committee.
The a udit Committee is chaired by Roger Matthews and meets at least twice a year with the Company's external auditor, once following 
a review of the interim results, and on completion of the annual audit process, but prior to the Board approving the financial statements 
of the Group. It also considers the Group's financial and accounting policies together with management reports on accounting and 
internal controls and will review reports presented by the external auditor and consider any other matters raised by them. The Audit 
Committee will invite the Executive Directors to attend as necessary to conduct its business.
The r emuneration Committee is chaired by David Williams and implements the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and determines their terms and conditions including annual remuneration and incentive awards. The remuneration of the Non-executive 
Directors is decided by the full Board except that no Director is involved in discussions regarding his/her own remuneration. The 
Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 21 sets out the policy and its current application in respect of Directors' remuneration.
The nominations Committee is chaired by David Williams and its purpose is to lead the process for Board appointments and to 
make recommendations to the Board to achieve the optimal composition of the Board having regard to its size, individuals having 
the appropriate experience & attributes and the need to maintain the highest standard of corporate governance.
CorPora Te soCial resPonsiBiliT y
The Board is committed to ensuring that our commercial strategy includes us acting responsibly in terms of its impact on our workforce, 
the environment and the marketplace. The Board reviews health and safety matters on a monthly basis (see Directors' Report, page 18). 
Each division has its own environmental policy and we are in the process of developing a uniform system of performance indicators 
across the Group. Our supplier quality assurance systems require that suppliers meet our strict food safety and quality standards and 
that they have, or are, working towards achieving internationally-recognised certification such as the BRC global standard for food. 
Within our sustainability framework, we are developing a Supplier Ethical Trading programme based around the internationally-recognised 
Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX). This will extend across the supply base the ethical trading audit programme that we already 
have in place with our Far East suppliers.
rela TionshiPs wiTh shareholders
It is important to the Board to preserve good relationships with shareholders and, therefore, the Directors ensure that appropriate 
lines of two-way communication are in place. In addition to the AGM which is open to all shareholders, presentations at the half-year 
and full-year are offered to institutional shareholders. At these presentations, shareholders are reminded that the Chairman operates 
an open door  policy if they wish to raise any matters with him. Supplementary information on trading and other corporate matters 
is provided via Stock Exchange announcements.
The Company's nominated advisor and PR advisors gather feedback from the shareholder and analyst meetings and present the 
results to the Board for evaluation.
The Group's website, www.zetarplc.com, contains information on the Group's financial results, corporate governance and announcements 
which are updated immediately after publication.