 28
Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2012
Corporate Information
Summary of the role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The Audit 
Committee's terms of reference, which are available on the Company's website, include all matters indicated by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code. The terms of reference are reviewed regularly by the Audit 
Committee and, if amended, are then referred to the Board for approval. The terms of reference were reviewed in February 2012 and 
updated to include a responsibility to review arrangements to prevent bribery.
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
 monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Group's financial 
performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein;
 reviewing the External Auditor's management letter and management responses;
 reviewing the Group's internal controls and risk management systems;
 reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties ( the whistleblowing 
policy');
 reviewing the arrangements put in place by the Group to prevent bribery and to receive reports of non-compliance;
 annually assessing the need for an internal audit function and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the application of 
internal audit to the Group;
 making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in 
relation to the appointment of the External Auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the External 
Auditor;
 reviewing and monitoring the External Auditor's independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking 
into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements; and
 developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the External Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action 
or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee
Throughout 2012, the members of the Audit Committee were the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company (M-L 
Clayton, R J Clowes and A Walker). R H Lawson, who was the Chair of the Committee until 6 December 2011, also served as a 
member of the Committee until he retired from the Board on 31 March 2012. The Audit Committee wishes to thank him for his 
contribution and support over the previous nine years. M-L Clayton has been the Chair of the Committee throughout 2012. She is a 
Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and, in the opinion of the Board, has significant, recent and relevant 
financial experience to fulfil the requirements of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code. All 
Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate and, where necessary, the Company provides further training if 
required.
The Committee normally comprises three members, with a minimum of two members at any time. Two members constitute a 
quorum.
Meetings
The Audit Committee has a planned calendar linked to events in the Company's financial calendar, where it normally meets three 
times in the year. Each meeting agenda is predominantly based around these events and is approved by the Audit Committee Chair 
on behalf of the other members, although other members have the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to 
standard agenda items. Due to the audit tender process, the Audit Committee met five times in 2012.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee. The Company Chairman, Managing Director, Finance Director, 
Financial Controller and senior representatives of the External and Internal Auditors are invited to attend relevant meetings of the 
Committee, although the Committee reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw. At each meeting, the External 
Auditor is given the opportunity to raise matters without the management being present. Other senior management may be invited to 
present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties. During the year, on an informal basis, the Audit 
Committee Chair meets senior representatives of both the External Auditor and Internal Auditor to discuss matters ahead of the 
formal Committee meetings. 29
Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2012
Corporate Information
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties 
Since the beginning of 2012 the Audit Committee has:
 reviewed the financial statements in the 2011 and 2012 report and accounts and the interim report issued in August 2012. As part 
of this review the Committee received reports from the External Auditor on the audit of the Annual Reports and accounts and the 
review of the interim report;
 recommended to the Board to put the external audit to tender, oversaw the tender process and recommended to the Board to 
appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP;
 reviewed the Group's policies on ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, fraud, whistleblowing and employee share trading;
 considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate high-level business risks, including 
reviewing the Group's recently developed high-level business risk matrix;
 agreed a programme of work for 2012 to be performed by the Internal Auditor, and received the Internal Auditor's reports on the 
work undertaken and management's responses to the proposals made in the reports;
 reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls (including, but not limited to, financial controls) to ensure that they 
remain appropriate and adequate as the Group grows;
 reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the External Auditor;
 considered the views of both the External Auditor and Internal Auditor on the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
financial controls;
 agreed the fees to be paid to the External Auditor for their audit and work on the accounts and interim report;
 undertaken an evaluation of the independence and effectiveness of the External Auditor, including reviewing the Group's policy 
on non-audit services provided by the External Auditor; and
 reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
External auditor
As part of good practice, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the Group's audit be put to competitive tender, as 
KPMG Audit plc ( KPMG') had been the Group's auditor since the Company listed in 1995. The tender process commenced in May 
2012 and a selection panel was appointed, which included the Audit Committee Chair. The panel considered the proposals 
submitted and the presentations given by the three invited firms (including KPMG). The selection panel then submitted its proposal 
to the Audit Committee, which then considered the matter and recommended to the Board that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be 
selected as the External Auditor.
At the conclusion of the external audit, the Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the External Auditor in relation to their 
fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, the robustness and perceptiveness of the Auditor in handling key accounting and audit 
judgements and the thoroughness of the External Auditor's review of internal financial controls. The Audit Committee, following such 
a review of these activities, concluded that the External Auditor has performed satisfactorily and has recommended to the Board that 
a resolution be put to the shareholders at the 2013 AGM to re-appoint the External Auditor.
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Group's policy on external audit. 
Although the External Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services, the Committee has agreed a policy that sets a cap on the 
amount of non-audit work provided. The Committee regularly reviews the amount of non-audit work provided in order to ensure that 
the Auditor's objectivity and independence are not compromised. 
Internal audit function
Each year the Audit Committee reviews the need for an internal audit function and given the size of the Group continues to be of the 
opinion that the internal audit function is best performed by an external audit firm. Mazars LLP continues to provide such services to 
the Group, which complement the services provided by the External Auditor. In 2012, the Audit Committee agreed the scope for the 
internal audits, reviewed the reports received and discussed the proposals made with management. Mazars LLP performs no other 
work for the Group and the Audit Committee considers them to remain independent.
Overview
As a result of its work during the year and having undertaken a review of its performance, the Audit Committee has concluded that it 
has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor. The 
Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by:
M-L Clayton
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee
4 March 2013