 11
Corporate governance 
As an AIM listed Company, Zytronic is not obliged to comply with the Combined Code, but instead
uses its provisions as a guide, but only as considered appropriate to the circumstances of
the Company.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Directors consider
that, except for the matters noted below, the Company has, throughout the year, been in full
compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code prepared by the
Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel.
During the year the audit committee comprised the two independent Non-executive Directors,
rather than three as specified by provision D3.1 of the Combined Code. The remuneration
committee was chaired by the Group Chairman, rather than a Non-executive Director as specified
by provisions B2.1 and B2.2 of the Combined Code. As discussed below, with effect from 28 June
2004, the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were not separated as specified in provision A2.1
of the Combined Code. In view of the size and structure of the Group, the Board does not believe
that these exceptions had any detrimental effect on the control environment. The Non-executive
Directors have not been appointed for a specific term as specified by provision A6.1.
The workings of the Board and its committees
The Board
At the beginning of the year, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance
Director, the two independent, Non-executive Directors and one other Non-executive Director
(David Banks). On 28 June 2004, Ian Lawson, the Chief Executive, resigned as a Director and
John Kennair, the Chairman, stepped in as Chief Executive.
The Non-executive Directors demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring
independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct
which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Board meets at least six times per year, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate
funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition possibilities and reporting to
shareholders. The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the
strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully considered. To enable the Board to
discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are
distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings. The Chairman
ensures that the Directors are able to take independent professional advice as required, at the
Company's expense.
The standing committees established by the Board are the remuneration committee and audit
committee, each of which operates within defined terms of reference.
The nominations process prior to Board appointments takes into account the views of existing
Board members and advisors. A nominations committee has not been established as the Board is
small. Any Director appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting is required to
seek re-election at the subsequent Annual General Meeting. All Directors are subject to re-election
at least once every three years.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee does not consist exclusively of the two independent Non-executive
Directors as specified by provision B2.1 as it includes, and is chaired by, the Chairman. It is
responsible for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the
Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost, including the remuneration of
subsidiary Directors. The Chairman's remuneration is determined by a sub-committee comprising
only the two independent Non-executive Directors. The committee determines the contract terms,
remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including performance related
bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. Further details of the Company's
policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the
Remuneration Report.
ZYTRONIC PLC ANNUAL REPORT + FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
 12
Corporate governance (continued)
The workings of the Board and its committees (continued)
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises the two independent Non-executive Directors. Meetings are also
attended, by invitation, by the Chairman and Finance Director. The committee is chaired by Tudor
Davies and meets not less than twice annually. The committee provides a forum for reporting by
the Group's external auditors.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year
and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls
which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The audit
committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration
both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with
the auditors.
The audit committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and
objectivity of the auditors. The Chairman of the audit committee reports the outcome of audit
committee meetings to the Board and the Board receives minutes of the meetings.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The financial statements include a
review of the business and future developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders including presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement of the
year-end results and at the half year. Information relating to the Group is also available on the
Group's website, www.zytronic.co.uk.
The Board uses both the annual report and financial statements and the Annual General Meeting
to communicate directly with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees are
available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday 1 February 2005 can be found in the Notice of the Annual
General Meeting on pages 37 and 38.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk
of failure to achieve the Group's strategic objectives and can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. As an AIM listed Company, the
Company does not need to comply with Code provision D2.1 regarding the Directors giving a
summary of the process applied by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of
internal control. Instead, the Directors set out below some of the key aspects of the Group's internal
control procedures.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal
control, has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced
by the Group. The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of
approval of the annual report and financial statements. The Board regularly reviews this process as
part of its review of such risks within Board meetings.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for decision by the Board. Authority to operate subsidiary companies is
delegated to local management within limits set by the Board. The appointment of Executives to
the most senior positions within the Group requires the approval of the Board.
ZYTRONIC PLC ANNUAL REPORT + FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
 13
Internal control (continued)
The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for
determining the appropriate course of action to manage those risks. Such risks and actions are
reviewed at Board meetings.
Each year the Board approves the annual budget. Key risk areas are identified, reviewed and
monitored. Performance is monitored against budget, relevant action is taken throughout the year
and updated forecasts are prepared as appropriate. The reports reviewed by the Board include
reports on operational as well as financial issues.
Capital and development expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the
Board for approval. Reviews are carried out after the purchase is complete. Major cost overruns
are investigated.
Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and concluded that this is not
currently necessary in view of the small size of the Group and the close supervision by senior
management of its day-to-day operations.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
ZYTRONIC PLC ANNUAL REPORT + FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
