 Corporate Governance Statements
THE BELHAVEN GROUP PLC    ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS
PAGE   16
The Group is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code, which is appended to
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BEST PRACTICE 
The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code except for the following matters:
Code provision B.1.7 requires the Board to have an objective of setting periods of notice at one year or less. Stuart Ross's
contract of employment carries a period of notice in excess of one year. In the light of the importance of Stuart Ross to the
Group, the Board believes that it is desirable to maintain this period of notice.
Code provision A.2.1 requires the Board to designate a senior non-executive director other than the Chairman. Chris Greig is
the Chairman and senior non-executive director. The Board does not believe it is practical to have a separate Chairman and
senior non-executive director at this time.
STATEMENT ABOUT APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE 
The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the
Code of Best Practice as reported above. Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and,
in connection with directors' remuneration, in the remuneration report.
THE BOARD
The Board meets regularly to consider the overall performance and strategic direction of the Group.
There are five executive directors and three non-executive directors including Chris Greig who is the Chairman and senior
non-executive director. Stuart Ross is the Chief Executive. The Board operates as a team with the non-executive directors
bringing a wide range of experience obtained at a senior level. All the non-executive directors are independent of the
management of Belhaven, and are free from any business or other relationships which would materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, the removal of whom would be a matter for
the whole Board. The directors may, at the Group's expense, take independent professional advice should this be necessary
in furtherance of their duties.
The terms and conditions of each non-executive director's appointment were agreed in individual letters of appointment.
Each non-executive director has a contract which is subject to a rolling period of three months' notice.
TIMELINESS AND QUALITY OF THE BOARD INFORMATION 
The directors receive a comprehensive information pack well in advance of each Board meeting to allow each director to
consider in full the performance of the Group and any specific matters under discussion. The information pack includes a
report from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
REGULAR RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Articles of Association provide that each year one-third of all directors are subject to retirement by rotation. In addition
the Articles of Association require directors to retire and offer themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting
following their appointment. The directors to retire this year are set out in the remuneration report.
COMMUNICATIONS
Communications with shareholders are actively encouraged and given a high priority. The Chief Executive and the Finance
Director, at times supported by the Managing Director of Belhaven Pubs, have meetings with representatives of institutional
shareholders throughout the year. A full annual report and, at the half year, an interim report are sent out to all shareholders.
These communications also include the preliminary announcement, which is issued on the same day that the Group's full
year results are released.
General presentations on the Group's results, strategy and outlook for the future are given after these results. There is also
an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Board at the Annual General Meeting. All of the directors are
pleased to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
MAINTENANCE OF A SOUND SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has applied Principle D.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from
the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999. The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss. 
New accounts 03.repro  27/6/2003  12:41  Page 16 Corporate Governance Statements
PAGE   17
The Board of directors devoted a significant degree of attention to internal control during the year including the review of the
Group's risk management procedures. At Board level, the directors review the principal strategic, operational and financial
risks facing the business and confirm their satisfaction with the adequacy of controls in place to manage these risks.
Management of each of the operating divisions and the central services team review risk as part of periodic management
board agenda to reaffirm their understanding of the principal operational risks facing the business and categorise the risks
identified for priority assessment. The Board reviews risk issues raised by the executive directors on a regular basis.
Management then confirms that adequate controls are in place and that these are operating effectively in order to reduce the
risk to an acceptable level or identify where improvements to the system of internal control could be made. The Board's
monitoring covered all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. The following
are examples of the key elements of the risk management framework:
  Policies and procedures are in place, including the documentation of key systems and rules relating to the delegation of
authority, which allow the monitoring of controls and restrict the unauthorised use of the Group's assets;
  Experienced and suitably qualified staff take responsibility for important business functions. Regular appraisal procedures
have been established to set objectives, measure performance and identify training needs;
  Forecasts and budgets are prepared which allow management to monitor the key operational and financial activities and
risks and the progress towards objectives set for the year. Management accounts are prepared promptly providing relevant,
reliable and up-to-date financial and other information; significant variances from budget are investigated as appropriate,
and any necessary corrective action implemented and monitored;
  All investment projects are subject to formal authorisation procedures, with major investment projects requiring formal
Board approval;
  The directors review reports from management and from the external auditors throughout the year to provide reasonable
assurance that control procedures are in place and are being followed; and
  An internal audit function has been established to conduct regular reviews of key financial processes, and
procedures have been established for instituting appropriate action to correct weaknesses identified from the above
reports.
The Board of directors has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the framework on a regular basis during the year. 
APPROPRIATE AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH AUDITORS 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Angus Meldrum, with the external auditors attending its meetings twice yearly. Chris
Greig and Alistair Arkley also served on the Audit Committee throughout the year. Its terms of reference include considering
The Belhaven Group plc's internal controls and published financial reports for statutory compliance and recommending
appropriate disclosure to the Board. It also reviews regularly the services of the Group's auditors, to ensure that an objective
and professional relationship is maintained.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations committee is chaired by Chris Greig and also comprises Stuart Ross and the other non-executive directors,
Alistair Arkley and Angus Meldrum. Its function is to seek suitable candidates as non-executive directors and oversee all
Board appointments.
GOING CONCERN
Having discussed the business and its needs, the directors anticipate that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing those financial
statements, the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
New accounts 03.repro  27/6/2003  12:41  Page 17