 BEST OF THE BEST PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th APRIL 2009
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles underlying
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the good corporate performance of the Group. The
principles of Corporate Governance and a code of best practice are set out in the Combined Code. Under the
rules of the AIM, the Group is not required to comply in full with the code nor to state whether it derogates
from it. The Board considers that full compliance with the Code is not appropriate at this stage. This
statement sets out how the principles of the Code have been applied having regard to the size and nature of
the Company.
BOARD STRUCTURE
The Chief Executive of the Company is William Hindmarch. He is heavily involved in the day to day running
of the Group. During the year the board consisted of 6 Directors (Chief Executive and one further executive
Director and four non-executive Directors). With effect from 1st August 2009 the board will consist of 4
Directors (Chief Executive and one further executive Director and two non-executive Directors). It is
considered that this Board structure provides the necessary mix of industry specific and broad business
experience necessary for the effective governance of the Group.
There are certain matters specifically reserved to the Board for its decision. Board meetings are held on a
regular basis and effectively no decision of any consequence is made other than by the Board. All Directors
participate in the key areas of decision making, including the appointment of new Directors.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. A statement of Directors'
responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 7. The non-executive Directors have a particular
responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive Directors are fully considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant
information.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary. There is no agreed formal procedure for the Directors
to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting at regular intervals. The non-
executive Directors are appointed under fixed term contracts of no more than one year.
A brief biography of each of the Directors is set out below.
William Hindmarch, Age 35 - Chief Executive
William graduated from the University of Durham in 1996 and joined Kleinwort Benson as a graduate
trainee. He founded the business in 1999. He has been the Chief Executive for 9 years.
Rupert Garton, Age 34 - Commercial Director
Rupert graduated from the University of Durham in 1997 and joined JP Morgan as a graduate trainee. He
moved to Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein to take up a position in the equity capital markets division and
then spent a further four years in Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein's corporate finance division, working in
London, Milan and Johannesburg.
In 2003, he left to do an MBA at the Oxford Said Business School, before joining a specialist retailer as
Commercial Director. He joined the Company in January 2006.
9 BEST OF THE BEST PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th APRIL 2009
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT (CONTINUED)
BOARD STRUCTURE (CONTINUED)
Michael Hindmarch, Age 69 - Non-executive Chairman
Michael qualified as a Polymer Technologist at the National College of Rubber and Plastics Technology,
London. He founded Plantpak (Plastics) Ltd, a horticultural plastics company in 1970. In 1985 he reversed
Plantpak into Falcon Industries Plc, a listed conglomerate, becoming Chairman and CEO. Since 1990 he has
acted as an independent business consultant to a number of companies.
Nick Ziebland, Age 56 - Non-executive Director
Nick joined BAA in 1987 as commercial manager looking after retail at Heathrow Terminal 1, before moving
on to become Head of Retail at Gatwick. In 1995 Nick became Group Retail Strategy Director and took on
a dual role in 2004, when he also became Retail Director of Heathrow Terminal 5. Nick left BAA in 2009.
Nick will be stepping down from the Board on 1st August 2009.
Bill Henbrey, Age 63 - Non-executive Director
Bill, a Chartered Accountant, was a partner in BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, London from 1978 until his
retirement from the firm in June 2006 and was head of the UK Betting & Gaming and Leisure & Hospitality
Units.
He has been involved in all aspects of the betting and gaming sector, and the leisure industry generally, for
over 30 years. He has acted for a wide range of clients on both the private and quoted arena, including UK
and international land based operators and, in recent years, leading online gaming and sports book operators.
He has extensive experience of advising and assisting these clients with business and strategic planning,
flotations, acquisitions and disposals. Bill will be stepping down from the Board on 1st August 2009.
Colin Hargrave, Aged 56 - Non-executive Director
Colin has spent all his working life in the retail, leisure and travel industries having started his career with
the Burton Group. From 1991 to 1997 Colin worked for the Early Learning Centre, a division of John
Menzies plc. Reporting to the CEO as International Development Manager he was responsible for expanding
ELC into 13 new overseas markets through franchising, joint ventures and wholesaling.
From 1997 until he left in 2008 he worked for BAA Plc, more recently taken into private ownership. His role
prior to leaving was Managing Director of UK Retail where he was responsible for sales in excess of
 2.3 billion and a profit contribution c  650m from the seven UK airports BAA owned. Colin joined the
Board on 7th May 2008.
10 BEST OF THE BEST PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th APRIL 2009
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT (CONTINUED)
The Board has established the following committees, which have written terms of reference, to deal with
specific aspects of the Company's affairs.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The audit committee comprises of William Henbrey (Chairman of the committee) and Michael Hindmarch.
Meetings are also generally attended by the Company's executive Directors, and the external auditors.
The remit of the committee is to review:
- the appointment and performance of the external auditors;
- remuneration for both audit and non-audit work and nature and scope of the audit with the external
auditors;
- the interim and final financial report and accounts;
- the external auditors' management letter and management's responses;
- the systems of risk management and internal controls;
- operating, financial and accounting practices; and
- related recommendations to the Board.
The audit committee meets at least twice a year.
Colin Hargrave will be replacing William Henbrey as Chairman of the Committee with effect from
1st August 2009.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The remuneration committee comprising of Michael Hindmarch (Chairman of the committee) and William
Henbrey is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework of executive
remuneration and its cost. The committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for
each of the executive Directors. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
Colin Hargrave will be replacing William Henbrey as a member of the Committee with effect from
1st August 2009.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
There is no separate nomination committee at the moment due to the size of the Board.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Company's systems of
internal control. Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss, the Company's systems are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable
assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Group maintains a comprehensive process of financial reporting. The annual budget is reviewed and
approved before being formally adopted. Other key procedures that have been established and which are
designed to provide effective control as follows:
- Management structure - The Board meets regularly to discuss all issues affecting the Group.
- Investment appraisal - The Group has a clearly defined framework for investment appraisal and
approval is required by the Board where appropriate.
11 BEST OF THE BEST PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th APRIL 2009
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT (CONTINUED)
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL (continued)
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and considers the major
business risks and the control environment. No significant deficiencies have come to light during the period
and no weakness in internal financial control have resulted in any material losses or contingencies which
would require disclosure as recommended by the guidance for Directors on reporting on internal financial
control.
The Board considers that in light of the control environment described above, there is no current requirement
for a separate internal audit function.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Chief Executive is the Company's principal spokesperson with investors, fund managers, the press and
other interested parties. At the annual general meeting, private investors are given the opportunity to question
the Board.
This year's Annual General Meeting will be held on 17th September 2009. Notice of the Annual General
Meeting is set out in the back of this document.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and Group has adequate resources to continue
in business for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
12