 18
Corporate Governance
The Company is quoted on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange ( AIM'). The
regulatory requirements of AIM do not require the Company to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code (the
Code ) which applies to fully listed companies. Nevertheless, the Company is committed to high standards of
corporate governance to the extent that it is practicable and appropriate for a Group of our size. 
The Board 
The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, Lynton Barker, one Executive Director, Andrew Darby, and two
independent Non-executive Directors, Alastair Gordon and Iain Johnston. Alastair Gordon is the Senior
Independent Director. The Board collectively has a wide range of relevant business, financial and international
experience which is considered vital to the success of the Group. Each of the Directors has significant knowledge
of the technology industry combined with general business skills.
Lynton Barker was appointed Executive Chairman in April 2010. He continues in this role, effectively combining
the strategic role of the Chairman with the operational responsibilities of the Chief Executive. Andrew Darby has
continued in his combined role of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Lynton Barker's combined
roles do not conform with the Code Section A2 but the Board consider it is in the best interests of the Group to
maintain this small core executive team for the immediate future. The continuation of this joint role is reviewed
regularly, as are the mix of executive and non-executive board members.
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors are independent in accordance with the Code. In assessing
independence, the Board weighs a number of factors including whether each non-executive director is objective,
provides a challenge to management, is prepared to challenge the views of others, demonstrates a good
understanding of the business, has the best interests of the Group in mind and has no commercial or employment
relationships or circumstances with the Group that are likely to affect his judgement.
The Code calls for the re-election of one third of the directors at each AGM. Accordingly Andrew Darby is standing
for re-election. The Board considers that Andrew provides the operational and financial knowledge and continuity
required to help fulfil our current strategy.
The Non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability by bringing their independent judgement
to bear on issues brought before the Board and Board committees. They bring considerable knowledge and
experience from other areas of business and their views carry significant weight in the Board's decisions. They
also meet as a group from time to time without the Executive Directors being present to consider the performance
of the Executive Directors.
The Board met 13 times throughout the year. All the necessary information is supplied to the Directors on a timely
basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively. The Board has a statement of responsibilities and is
presented with an agenda and supporting documentation in sufficient time for review and consideration prior to
each Board meeting. It is responsible for the overall management of the Group and the approval of its long term
objectives and strategy. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring that it exercises
control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. At these meetings the Board
reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, monitors strategy, examines investment and
acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders. The Non-executive Directors can also take
independent advice as appropriate at the Company's expense.
228664 Active Risk pp18-pp27  21/05/2013  16:09  Page 18 19
Corporate Governance continued
Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which have each been reviewed by the relevant
Committee in the last year. Attendance at Board and Committee meetings was as follows:
Audit Remuneration 
Board Committee Committee
Number of meetings 13 3 2
Lynton Barker 13 3 2
Andrew Darby 13 3 2
Alastair Gordon 13 3 2
Iain Johnston 13 3 2
Board Evaluation
The performance of the Board and its sub-committees is evaluated annually by the Board as a whole through
completion of a formal questionnaire. The results of the questionnaire are then discussed by the Board and
appropriate actions are taken. The performance of the Executive Chairman is reviewed by the Non-executive
Directors and the results discussed with the Executive Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
Training
The Executive Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new Board member is equipped to fulfil his or her
duties and responsibilities. Directors are kept up to date with any significant changes in corporate law and
governance and financial and accounting matters. 
Management Committee
The Board has established a Management Committee which is chaired by Lynton Barker and comprises the
Executive Directors together with other senior Executives of the Group. They meet monthly to discuss strategic
and operational matters and the key issues from the meetings are presented to the Board. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Iain Johnston. It met
on two occasions in the past year. It reviews the remuneration of each of the Executive Directors and sets the
scale and structure of their remuneration and other benefits. It also reviews and discusses the remuneration of
the other senior Executives with the Executive Chairman. The Remuneration Committee report can be found on
pages 22 to 25.
Nomination Committee
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Iain Johnston, leads Board discussions relating to Board
structure and Board appointments when necessary. It was not necessary for the Nomination Committee to meet
during the year.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the two Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Alastair Gordon, who has
recent relevant CFO financial experience within the public company software sector. Directors and auditors attend
the meetings by invitation to support the Committee in carrying out its responsibilities. The Audit Committee met
three times in the last financial year.
228664 Active Risk pp18-pp27  21/05/2013  16:09  Page 19 20
 Corporate Governance continued
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and
annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring controls, which are in force to
ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders. The Audit Committee is responsible
for the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration both for audit and, where considered
appropriate, non-audit work and discusses the nature and scope of the audit. In the past year the Audit
Committee has specifically reviewed the revenue recognition policy as applied to all major licence agreements and
the establishment and/or release of provisions and estimates.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the Group's auditor is of paramount importance to
shareholders and regularly reviews the level of non-audit work being performed by the auditor to ensure that they
remain independent. The Audit Committee also consults the auditor in the absence of Executive management at
the culmination of each Committee meeting in order to obtain independent advice and discuss the performance
of the Executive management. Audit and non-audit fees paid or payable to the auditor in the year under review
are set out in note 7. The Audit Committee has reviewed the work, performance and independence of the auditor
and considers it appropriate that a resolution be put to the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them.
The Group does not have an internal audit function. In the opinion of the Audit Committee and the Board, the
limited scale and complexity of the business does not warrant the establishment of a separate, internal audit
function at this time. The position is kept under review and the auditors are consulted with regard to the
experience of similar organisations.
Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls. The Board monitors the
effectiveness of the Group's internal controls on an annual basis including operational, financial, compliance and
risk management controls. The key controls are designed to mitigate risk rather than eliminate it and are as
follows:
       comprehensive financial planning and reporting and a detailed annual budget, which is approved by the
Board, monthly reporting of actual results against budget and reporting against key financial and
performance objectives;
       monthly performance reviews by the Executive Chairman and the Management Committee;
       established procedures and controls with the Group IT systems designed to protect the security of the
Group data and provide disaster recovery arrangements (with annual reviews and updates);
       controls for all acquisitions, investments and capital expenditure with clear authorisation levels;
       maintenance of the Group's ISO 9001 accreditation driving regular internal reviews, checks and mandatory
annual audits in sales, professional services, software support and development processes, acquisition
processes and human resources;
       procedures for the escalation of material risks from the Management Committee to the Board;
       operation of a structured system of risk management throughout the business. 
The internal control systems continue to be reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee and developed
where necessary.
228664 Active Risk pp18-pp27  21/05/2013  16:09  Page 20 21
 Corporate Governance continued
Relations with Shareholders
The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining good communications with its investors. This is
principally effected by the Executive Chairman and CFO through presentation and dialogue with shareholders,
institutions, brokers and media particularly following the half yearly and preliminary results announcements. Their
views are communicated to the Board. In addition the Non-executive Directors meet with major shareholders to
ascertain any concerns or questions that they may have with regard to the performance of the Group and the
executive management.
The principal communications with private investors are through the Company's website (www.activerisk.com),
the annual report and financial statements, the interim results statement and AGM. All the Directors aim to attend
the AGM, which provides shareholders with the opportunity to question the Executive Chairman and the Board
as well as the independent Non-executive Director Chairmen of the Board Committees.
By order of the Board:
Andrew Darby
Chief Financial Officer
228664 Active Risk pp18-pp27  21/05/2013  16:09  Page 21