 16
Corporate Governance
Bizspace Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Corporate Governance
Introduction
In January 1998, the Hampel Committee published
its report on Corporate Governance, which was
implemented by the London Stock Exchange as 
the Combined Code on 25 June 1998. The
Combined Code requires that disclosures are made
for companies whose shares are traded on the
main market of the London Stock Exchange on how
the fourteen principles of the Code have been
applied (known as  the appliance statement') and
whether or not the Company has complied with
these principles (known as  the compliance
statement'). The Combined Code is intended to
promote the principles of openness, integrity and
accountability. Whilst the shares in Bizspace Plc are
traded on the Alternative Investment Market and
hence compliance with the combined Code is not
mandatory, the Company fully supports these
principles and the directors have decided to provide
Corporate Governance disclosures.
On 8 May 2000, the Board formally adopted 
the principles of good governance set out in 
the Code. However, in view of the size and nature 
of the Group, the directors have taken into
consideration the recommendations of The 
Quoted Companies Alliance on the Code. The
Company's governance policies already in place
matched closely the position set out in the
Combined Code.
Narrative statement
Directors
There is a Board of directors which is set up to
control the Company and Group and consists of
three executive and two non-executive directors.
Both of the non-executive directors are
independent of the group. L G Lipman is Chairman 
of the Board. The full Board meets every six weeks
to discuss a whole range of significant matters
including strategic decisions, major acquisitions 
and group performance. A procedure to enable
directors to take independent professional advice 
if required has been agreed by the Board and
formally confirmed by all directors.
S Landy has been nominated as the senior
independent director as required by the Code.
Each Board meeting receives the latest
financial information available which consists 
of detailed management accounts with the
relevant comparisons to budget. A current trading
appraisal is given by the executive directors.
Each member of the Board is subject to the 
re-election provisions of the Articles of Association,
which requires them to offer themselves for 
re-election at least once every three years. In the
event of a proposal to appoint a new director,
this would be discussed at a full Board meeting,
with each member being given the opportunity 
to meet the individual concerned prior to any
formal decision being taken. As permitted by the
Combined Code, due to the small size of the Board,
it is considered inappropriate to establish a
Nomination Committee.
The directors have delegated certain of their
responsibilities to various committees, which
operate within specific terms of reference and
authority limits. The executive directors meet
on a regular basis every four weeks and deal with
decisions that do not require full Board approval.
The directors believe that this process for making
business decisions provides sufficient division of
responsibility to meet the requirements of the
Combined Code.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees, which
consist solely of non-executive directors, meet at
least twice a year.
Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee meets and 
considers, within existing terms of reference, the
remuneration policy and makes recommendations
to the Board for each executive director. The
executive directors' remuneration consists of a
package of basic salary, bonuses, and share options,
which are linked to corporate and individual
performance achievements and the levels of each  17
Bizspace Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Corporate Governance
are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The statement of remuneration policy and 
details of each director's remuneration are set
out in the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is
determined by the board as a whole.
Shareholder Relations
The directors meet and discuss the performance 
of the group with shareholders during the year.
Queries raised by a shareholder, either verbally or 
in writing, are promptly answered by whoever is
best placed on the Board to so do. All directors are
individually introduced to shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting.
Accountability and Audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and
Accounts play an important part in presenting all
shareholders with an assessment of the Group's
position and prospects. This is achieved by the
Chairman's Statement which contains a detailed
consideration of the Group's position and prospects.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the
Group has in place a system of internal control.
In this context, control is defined as those policies
and processes established to ensure that business
objectives are achieved cost effectively, assets 
and shareholder value are safeguarded, and laws,
regulations and policies are complied with.
Controls can provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance that risks are identified and adequately
managed to achieve business objectives and to
minimise material errors, losses and fraud or
breaches of laws and regulations.
The Group operates a strict system of internal
financial control, which is designed to ensure that
the possibility of misstatement or loss is kept to a
minimum. There is a comprehensive system in
place for financial reporting and the Board receives 
a number of reports to enable it to carry out these
functions in the most efficient manner. These
procedures include the preparation of management
accounts, forecast variance analysis and other 
ad hoc reports. There are clearly defined authority
limits throughout the group, including those
matters which are reserved specifically for the
Board. The Board has responsibility for the system
of internal financial control and an annual review 
of the same is undertaken.
The Combined Code extended the internal financial
control provisions to require the directors to review
the effectiveness of the Group's entire system of
internal control, including financial, operational,
compliance and risk management. The ICAEW
published Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors
on the Combined Code,  known as The Turnbull
Guidance , in September 1999, on how to apply the
Code principles D2 and provisions D2.1 and D2.2.
The Company as required by the UK Listing
Authority has complied with the provisions 
of the combined code on internal control having
established the procedures necessary to implement
the guidance issued in September 1999 (the
Turnbull Committee Report) and by reporting 
in accordance with that guidance.
The Board has overall responsibility for the
Company's system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of
management is to implement Board policies on 
risk and control. The system of internal control is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board reviews the group risk management
register and receives regular reports on any
material issues that have occurred during the year
and how the risks have changed over the period
under review. Steps are being taken to further
embed internal control and risk management into
the operations of the business and to address areas
of improvement where required which come to
management's and the Board's attention. The Group does not currently have, nor considers
there is a need for, an internal audit function.
Going Concern
In compliance with the Listing Rules of the UK
Listing Authority, the directors can report that
based on the group's budgets and financial
projections, they have satisfied themselves that
the business is a going concern. The Board has a
reasonable expectation that the Company and
group have adequate resources and facilities to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future and therefore the accounts 
are prepared on a going concern basis.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which consists of S S Landy
(chairman of the Committee) and J P Radgick, is
responsible for the relationship with the group's
auditors, the in-depth review of the group's
financial reports, internal controls and any other
reports that the group may circularise. The terms of
reference are reviewed on an annual basis, thereby
ensuring that the Audit Committee's duties
adequately cover all those specific areas that are
identified by the Code, which includes a review of
the cost effectiveness of the audit and non-audit
services provided to the group. The Committee
meets a minimum of twice a year, prior to the
announcement of interim and annual results and,
should it be necessary, would convene at other
times. In the period up to the date of signature of
the financial statements, the Committee met
three times.
Compliance Statement
Whilst not specifically required for a Company
whose shares are traded on the Alternative
Investment Market throughout the year to 
28 February 2003, the group has been in
compliance with the Code Provisions set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority,
save for the limited exceptions outlined below:
A.2.1
The group does not have a separate Chairman and
Chief Executive. L G Lipman has been Executive
Chairman since his appointment. The Executive
Chairman is responsible for the operation of the
board as a whole and for seeking new properties.
N S Corderey is responsible for the day-to-day
running of the business. The Board has two 
non-executive directors and feels that this ensures 
a suitable balance of independence and authority
on the Board.
A.5.1
A Nomination Committee has not been established.
The Board, however, is small and it feels that
decisions can be made effectively without this
committee in place.
B.1.7
The services of Mr L G Lipman and Mr P M Davis as
directors have been provided by Safeland Plc for no
consideration up until 8 June 2001. With effect from
8 June 2001 Mr Lipman and Mr Davis have signed
service contracts directly with Bizspace Plc,
terminable at any time on 12 months' notice with a
current remuneration of  30,000 each.
Mr N S Corderey has signed a three year service
contract with Bizspace Plc dated 11 June 2001
with a current remuneration of  100,000. The
agreements with the non-executive directors
provide for three month notice periods. Whilst
notice periods remain under review the
Remuneration Committee considers that current
notice periods are appropriate for the stage of
development of the business.
D.3.1
The Audit Committee comprised only two 
non-executive directors during the year. The 
Board feels that due to the size of the Company 
this is adequate.
By order of the Board
6th June 2003
18
Corporate Governance continued
Bizspace Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Corporate Governance