 16|17 BIZSPACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Introduction
In January 1998, the Hampel Committee published 
its report on Corporate Governance, which was
implemented by the London Stock Exchange as a
Combined Code on 25 June 1998. The Combined 
Code requires that disclosures are made for companies
whose shares are traded on the main market of 
the London Stock Exchange on how the fourteen
principles of the Code have been applied (known as 
 the appliance statement') and whether or not the
Company has complied with these principles (known 
as  the compliance statement.')
The Combined Code is intended to promote the
principles of openness, integrity and accountability.
Whilst the shares in Bizspace plc are traded on the
Alternative Investment Market and hence compliance
with the Combined Code is not mandatory, the
Company fully supports these principles and the
directors have decided to provide Corporate
Governance disclosures.
A new Combined Code, which incorporates the
proposals in the Higgs Report published in January
2003, came into force on 1 November 2003 and will
have effect for accounting periods commencing on 
or after that date.
On 8 May 2000, the Board formally adopted the
principles of good governance set out in the Code.
However, in view of the size and nature of the group,
the directors have taken into consideration the
recommendations of CISCO's Guidance for Smaller
Quoted Companies on the Code. The Company's
governance policies already in place matched closely
the position set out in the Combined Code.
Narrative statement
Directors
There is a Board of directors which is set up to control
the Company and group and consists of three executive
and two non-executive directors. Both of the non-
executive directors are independent of the group.
LG Lipman is Chairman of the Board and during the
year NS Corderey was appointed Managing Director.
The full Board meets every six weeks to discuss a 
whole range of significant matters including strategic
decisions, major acquisitions and group performance.
A procedure to enable directors to take independent
professional advice if required has been agreed by 
the Board and formally confirmed by all directors.
SS Landy has been nominated as the senior
independent director as required by the Code.
Each Board meeting receives the latest financial
information available which consists of detailed
management accounts with the relevant comparisons
to budget. A current trading appraisal is given by the
executive directors.
Each member of the Board is subject to the re-election
provisions of the Articles of Association, which require
them to offer themselves for re-election at least
once every three years. In the event of a proposal to
appoint a new director, this would be discussed at a 
full Board meeting, with each member being given 
the opportunity to meet the individual concerned 
prior to any formal decision being taken. As permitted
by the Combined Code, due to the small size of the
Board, it is considered inappropriate to establish a
Nomination Committee.
The directors have delegated certain of their
responsibilities to various committees, which 
operate within specific terms of reference and 
authority limits. The executive directors meet on 
a regular basis every four weeks and deal with 
decisions that do not require full Board approval.
The directors believe that this process for making
business decisions provides sufficient division of
responsibility to meet the requirements of the
Combined Code.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees, which
consist solely of non-executive directors, meet at
least twice a year.
  BS1449 Biz AR 04 Front Section AW  24/6/04  5:06 pm  Page 16 Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee meets and considers,
within existing terms of reference, the remuneration
policy and makes recommendations to the Board 
for each executive director. The executive directors'
remuneration consists of a package of basic salary,
bonuses, and share options, which are linked to
corporate and individual performance achievements
and the levels of each are determined by the
Remuneration Committee. The statement of
remuneration policy and details of each director's
remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is determined
by the board as a whole.
Shareholder Relations
The directors meet and discuss the performance of 
the group with shareholders during the year. Queries
raised by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are
promptly answered by whoever is best placed on the
Board to so do. All directors are individually introduced
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Accountability and Audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and
Accounts play an important part in presenting all
shareholders with an assessment of the group's
position and prospects. This is achieved by the
Chairman's Statement which contains a detailed
consideration of the group's position and prospects.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the group
has in place a system of internal control. In this context,
control is defined as those policies and processes
established to ensure that business objectives are
achieved cost effectively, assets and shareholder value
are safeguarded, and laws, regulations and policies are
complied with. Controls can provide reasonable but
not absolute assurance that risks are identified and
adequately managed to achieve business objectives
and to minimise material errors, losses and fraud or
breaches of laws and regulations.
The group operates a strict system of internal 
financial control, which is designed to ensure that
the possibility of misstatement or loss is kept to a
minimum. There is a comprehensive system in place 
for financial reporting and the Board receives a number
of reports to enable it to carry out these functions in
the most efficient manner. These procedures include
the preparation of management accounts, forecast
variance analysis and other ad hoc reports. There are
clearly defined authority limits throughout the group,
including those matters which are reserved specifically
for the Board. The Board has responsibility for the
system of internal financial control and an annual
review of the same is undertaken.
The Combined Code extended the internal financial
control provisions to require the directors to review the
effectiveness of the group's entire system of internal
control, including financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management. The ICAEW published Internal
Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code,  known as The Turnbull Guidance,  in September
1999, on how to apply the Code principles D2 and
provisions D2.1 and D2.2.
The Company, as required by the UK Listing Authority,
has complied with the provisions of the Combined
Code on internal control having established the
procedures necessary to implement the guidance
issued in September 1999 (the T urnbull Committee
Report) and by reporting in accordance with 
that guidance.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness whilst the role of management is to
implement Board policies on risk and control. The
system of internal control is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives.
The Board reviews the group risk management register
and receives regular reports on any material issues that
have occurred during the year and how the risks have
changed over the period under review.
  BS1449 Biz AR 04 Front Section AW  24/6/04  5:06 pm  Page 17 18|19 BIZSPACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Steps are being taken to further embed internal 
control and risk management into the operations 
of the business and to address areas of improvement
where required which come to management's and 
the Board's attention.
The group does not currently have, nor considers 
there is a need for, an internal audit function. This is
kept under periodic review.
Going Concern
In compliance with the Combined Code, the directors
can report that based on the group's budgets and
financial projections, they have satisfied themselves
that the business is a going concern. The Board has a
reasonable expectation that the Company and group
have adequate resources and facilities to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future and
therefore the accounts are prepared on the going
concern basis.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which consists of SS Landy
(chairman of the Committee) and JP Radgick, is
responsible for the relationship with the group's
auditors, the in-depth review of the group's financial
reports, internal controls and any other reports that
the group may circularise. The terms of reference are
reviewed on an annual basis, thereby ensuring that the
Audit Committee's duties adequately cover all those
specific areas that are identified by the Code, which
includes a review of the cost effectiveness of 
the audit and non-audit services provided to the group.
The Committee meets a minimum of twice a year, prior
to the announcement of interim and annual results
and, should it be necessary, would convene at other
times. In the period up to the date of signature of the
financial statements, the Committee met three times.
Compliance Statement
Whilst not specifically required for a Company whose
shares are traded on the Alternative Investment Market
throughout the year to 29 February 2004, the group
has been in compliance with the Code Provisions set
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority, save 
for the limited exceptions outlined below:
A.5.1
A Nomination Committee has not been established.
The Board, however, is small and it feels that
decisions can be made effectively without this
committee in place.
B.1.7
NS Corderey has signed a three year service contract
with Bizspace plc dated 30 April 2004 with a current
remuneration of  120,000. The agreements with 
the non-executive directors provide for three month
notice periods. Whilst notice periods remain under
review the Remuneration Committee considers that
current notice periods are appropriate for the stage 
of development of the business.
D.3.1
The Audit Committee comprised only two non-
executive directors during the year. The Board feels 
that due to the size of the Company this is adequate.
By order of the Board
10 June 2004
  BS1449 Biz AR 04 Front Section AW  24/6/04  5:06 pm  Page 18