 Black Arrow Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
Corporate Governance
The board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and has adopted the structures and procedures that are 
considered appropriate having regard to the size and best interests of the group. As the Company is listed on AIM it is not required to comply with the 
Combined Code. However, the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.     
     
The workings of the board and its committees     
The Board     
The board comprised two non-executive directors and five executive directors. The biographies appear on page 7. The board is responsible to the 
shareholders for proper management of the Group. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on 
page 9 and a statement on going concern is given on page 8.     
     
The board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. All directors have access to the advice and services of the company 
secretary, Mr. R Waxman, who is responsible to the board for ensuring all board procedures are followed and that it complies with applicable rules and 
regulations. In addition, the company secretary ensures that the directors receive appropriate briefing as necessary. The appointment and removal of 
the company secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.     
     
The board meets at least ten times a year reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining 
acquisition possibilities and reporting to shareholders. The non-executive directors have particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed 
by the executive directors are fully considered. To enable the board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information. 
Briefing papers are distributed by the company secretary to all directors in advance of board meetings. The chairman, Mr. A Edward, ensures that the 
directors take independent professional advice if required.     
     
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs.     
     
Nomination Committee     
The size of this board does not warrant an independent nomination committee and the function of the committee is adopted by the board as a 
whole.     
     
Remuneration Committee     
The Group's remuneration committee is chaired by Mr. D Horne, the senior non-executive director, and its other member is Mr. I Edward. It is responsible 
for making recommendations to the board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost. The 
committee recommends the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors, including performance related bonus 
schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.   
  
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors' Remuneration 
Report on pages 5 to 6.     
     
Audit Committee     
The audit committee which is also chaired by Mr. D Horne, comprises the non-executive directors, and meets twice annually. The committee provides 
a forum for discussion with the Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the chairman and the finance director. 
 
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and financial statements before their submission to 
the board and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the 
shareholders. The audit committee advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit 
work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors. The audit committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness 
and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.     
          
Relations with shareholders     
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority. The Review of Operations on page 2 and the Chairman's Statement on page 1 include a 
detailed review of the business and future developments.     
     
The board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The chairman 
aims to ensure that the chairman of the remuneration committee is available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions. Details of resolutions to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 15 October 2009 can be found in the notice of meeting.     
      Internal control     
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company which has been in place throughout the 
year, and up to the date of approval of the financial statements which accords with the Turnbull guidance. This process involves discussion between 
the audit committee and senior management via the finance director, about the risks faced by the business and the controls in place to manage such 
risks. Where weaknesses are identified, changes in controls are made, as appropriate. The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the company's 
system of internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.   
 
The board governance policies include a process for the board to review regularly the effectiveness of the systems of internal control. As part of this 
process, executive management discuss at their monthly meetings any risk categories highlighted from time to time, and this together with reviewing 
the enhancements implemented during the year, in the board's view, is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the company's system of 
internal control.     
     
The key procedures which the directors have established with the view to providing effective internal control are as follows:    
 
  	 M a n a g e m e n t 	 s t r u c t u r e     
The board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board.  
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the group's affairs. The executive directors together with key senior 
executives constitute the management who ensure day-to-day operational effectiveness.     
     
  	 Q u a l i t y 	 a n d 	 I n t e g r i t y 	 o f 	 P e r s o n n e l     
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses. High quality personnel are 
seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated throughout the organisation.  
  	 I d e n t i f i c a t i o n 	 o f 	 B u s i n e s s 	 R i s k 	 	 	 	 	
The board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate courses of action to manage 
those risks.     
     
  	 B u d g e t a r y 	 P r o c e s s 	    
Each year the board approves the annual budget which incorporates short-term forecasting. Key risk levels are identified. Performance is monitored 
and relevant action taken throughout the year through monthly reporting to the board of variances from the budget and relevant action is taken as 
appropriate.     
     
  	 I n v e s t m e n t 	 A p p r a i s a l     
Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specific levels, detailed written proposals 
have to be submitted to the board. Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is complete, and for some projects, during the acquisition period, to 
monitor expenditure: major overruns are investigated.     
     
  	 A u d i t 	 C o m m i t t e e     
The audit committee monitors the controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment. The audit committee also considers 
and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. The audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of 
the system of internal control as it operated during the year.     
     
Going concern     
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of 
Operations on page 2 and the Chairman's Statement on page 1. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are shown in 
the accounts. 
    
The Group has considerable financial resources and as a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.     
     
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report  
and Accounts.     
Corporate Governance
Black Arrow Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4