 Although as an AIM listed Company Blooms of Bressingham Holdings PLC is not required to comply with
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (1998) (  the Code''), the Board's policy is to operate
standards of Corporate Governance as considered appropriate for a company of this size, using the Code as
a model of best practice.
THE BOARD
The Board meets monthly, and more frequently as required, to monitor the executive management and
oversee the strategy for the business. Each member receives reports and  nancial information prior to the
meetings, together with other relevant information on business, corporate and strategic issues and has a
formal agenda including matters speci cally reserved for decision and approval of the Board. This ensures
that appropriate control of appropriate  nancial, strategic, organisational and compliance matters is
maintained. All Directors may take independent professional advice at the Company's expense in the
furtherance of their duties and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Mr Charles Good, a Non-Executive Director, chairs the Board and Mr Jon Kitching, the Chief Executive, is
responsible for running the Group's business. Mr Christopher Baker, Deputy Chairman, is the senior
independent Non-Executive Director and chairs the Remuneration and Audit Committees and the other
non-executive Directors make up the rest of each of these committees. The Audit and Remuneration
Committees have written terms of reference approved by the Board. At present the Board does not have a
Nominations Committee as the Directors do not consider that one is necessary given the size of the
Company. However the requirement for a Nominations Committee, as well as the composition and terms
of reference of the other committees, is kept under review.
An Executive Committee made up of the executive Directors of the Board and other key senior members of
operational management, meets at least once a month to review all day-to-day operational and  nancial
issues; minutes of these meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Company's Articles of Association require one third of the Board to submit themselves for re-election by
shareholders on a rotational basis every year. No Director is exempt from seeking re-election. Non-executive
directors are normally appointed for a term of three years, renewable to a normal maximum of nine years.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
During the year the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director of Blooms of Bressingham Holdings
PLC have met the Company's larger institutional investors to whom presentations were made after
announcement of the Company's preliminary and interim results. Care is taken to ensure that any price
sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional or private, at the same time in accordance
with the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
All Directors, including the Chairman of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, attended the Annual
General Meeting and were available to answer questions from those shareholders present. The Chairman,
after a show of hands on each resolution, indicated the number of proxy votes for and against each resolution.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
The Chairman's Statement, Chief Executive's and Finance Director's Reviews give an assessment of the
Group's position and prospects. The Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for preparing the accounts is
set out in the Report of the Directors.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year to monitor the accounting policies, internal control and
 nancial reporting of the Group. The external auditors attend all the meetings and have direct access to the
Committee Chairman. Under its terms of reference, the Committee has at least one meeting a year with the
auditors, without executive management present.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the external
auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work and discusses the nature, scope and
results of the audit with external auditors.
BLOOMS OF BRESSINGHAM HOLDINGS PLC
.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003/2004 12
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group's systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss. For the whole of
the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, the Board has
had processes in place to ensure that it is in a position to consider all signi cant aspects of internal control. As
part of its normal operating procedures, this requires operational management to;
. identify risks facing each aspect of the business and put in place procedures to mitigate and monitor risk.
. review material business risks and set out the signi cant risks to the business, the controls in place and
additional controls which could be implemented. These proposals are reviewed and approved by the
Executive Committee and any signi cant matters arising from this review are formally reported to the
Board;
The Board also requires the Executive Committee to monitor and periodically review the risk and control
identi cation and management process.
The key elements of the controls framework within which the Group operates are:
. An organisational structure with clearly de ned lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and
reporting requirements.
. An embedded culture of openness of communication between operating management and the Group
executive management on matters relating to risk and control.
. De ned expenditure authorisation levels.
. Monthly operational review covering all aspects of each business by the Executive Committee.
. A system of detailed  nancial reporting. An annual budget for each operating centre is prepared in detail
and approved by the Chief Executive. The Board approves the overall Group's budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised
where necessary. The Board questions any signi cant changes and adverse variances, then remedial action
is taken where appropriate. A detailed weekly sales report, which also includes markdown and stock
monitoring information, is circulated to all management and to the Board.
The Group does not have an internal audit function. However Executive Board members carry out control
checks at each operational centre on a regular and unannounced basis to monitor key sensitive areas. The
Board keeps the need for an internal audit function under periodic review.
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The Board has a Remunerations Committee, which meets at least twice a year. It is composed of the non-
executive Directors, who, in the opinion of the Board, are independent of management and free from any
business or other relationship which could materially interfere with their independent judgement. The
responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors'
remuneration principles of the Code, are set out below.
The Committee's primary role is to set the remuneration of the Company's executive Directors. The
Committee does not consider fees payable to non-executive Directors, which is a matter for the Board as a
whole.
The Chief Executive is consulted on the remuneration of executive Directors and attends all meetings,
although withdraws when his own remuneration is discussed. The Company Secretary provides information
to the Remuneration Committee and is in attendance at meetings.
The Committee takes independent professional advice, on an ad hoc basis, as required.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003/2004
.
BLOOMS OF BRESSINGHAM HOLDINGS PLC 13
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ^ continued REMUNERATION POLICY
The policy of the Committee is to set competitive remuneration packages to ensure that, having regard to the
location and sector of the Group's businesses, it can attract and retain talented executive management. Bonus
plans are put in place each year which would enable Directors to earn up to an additional 50 per cent. of base
salary dependent on Group performance.
Bonus targets are set by the Remuneration Committee; these are intended to be challenging and are not
necessarily the same as the Group's budgets.
Historically, a substantial number of share options were issued without performance conditions (and in the
majority of cases at prices well above the Company's current share price). The Committee will not in
future recommend the grant of share options to senior management without medium term performance
conditions and is currently considering what is the most appropriate share-based method for medium term
incentives for Directors and senior managers.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Executive Directors have service contracts which provide for between 6 and 12 months notice on either
side. Remuneration received by Executive Directors is given below:
JA Kitching S Sajid S J Foale
2004
 
2003
 
2004
 
2003
 
2004
 
2003
 
Base salary 75,000 75,000 72,000 72,000 35,000 20,000
Annual bonus 10,000 ^ 9,500 ^ 2,500 ^
Pension contributions ^ ^ 9,000 9,000 ^ ^
Other bene ts 17,212 12,733 5,194 5,882 ^ 1,375
Number Number Number Number Number Number
Share options 50,000 50,000 96,200 96,200 77,500 77,500
The Executive Directors do not participate in a de ned bene t scheme. However one of the directors is
entitled to a contribution from the Company to their own de ned contribution scheme.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Non-Executive Directors are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for 6 months notice on
either side. They receive fees and do not participate in bonus schemes, pension plans or other Company
bene ts. Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are given below:
CA Good C J Baker A P Biggs
2004
 
2003
 
2004
 
2003
 
2004
 
2003
 
Base salary 20,000 18,000 20,000 15,000 6,000 6,000
Number Number Number Number Number Number
Share options ^ ^ ^ ^ 64,655 64,655
BLOOMS OF BRESSINGHAM HOLDINGS PLC
.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003/2004 14
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ^ continued