 Bodycote annual report 2008 17
Corporate Governance
The Group's mission is:
  To provide world class companies with thermal processing
services that make a positive contribution to the success
of their businesses;
  To earn sustainable profits which attract shareholder interest;
  To engage, develop and retain competent people, harness their
enthusiasm and inspire them to excel; and
  To act as a good corporate citizen.
The Group's aim in terms of corporate governance is, therefore,
to sustain and support these objectives over the longer term.
Compliance with 2006 Combined Code
Bodycote complies with the provisions of The Combined Code on
Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting
Council in June 2006 ( the Code'), save in the following two areas
where the reasons for the variance are noted: 
(1) Audit Committee and Auditors (code provision C.3.1)
Between the date when Mr Bermejo resigned as a director
on 29 February 2008 and the appointment of Dr Rajagopal as
a non-executive director on 24 September 2008 the audit
committee comprised only 2 directors, notwithstanding that the
Code lays down a membership of at least three independent
non-executive directors. This was to enable an appropriate
search for a replacement to be completed.
(2) Investor Relations (code provision D.1.1)
Bodycote believes that generally it is the responsibility of the
Chief Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships
with institutional investors. The Chairman also meets institutional
investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns
that shareholders may have. Only where these more usual
channels of communication have failed would the Company
expect the Senior Independent or other Non-Executive Directors
to become involved, notwithstanding that the Code specifies
attendance of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
at meetings with major shareholders. Regular feedback by the
Company's advisers on investor meetings and results
presentations is circulated to all Directors. Non-Executive
Directors are also encouraged to attend one of the results
presentations each year.
Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote was in compliance with
the provisions of the Code throughout 2008.
Operation of the Code
Taken together with the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination
Committee Report and the Board Report on Remuneration presented
on pages 19 to 27, this statement explains how Bodycote has applied
the principles of good corporate governance set out in the Code.
Leadership
The Board of Directors comprises eight members, of whom four are
Non-Executive Directors and four are Executive Directors led by the
Company's part-time Non-Executive Chairman, Mr A.M. Thomson,
who also chairs the Nomination Committee. 
The Chief Executive is Mr S.C. Harris who succeeded Mr J.D. Hubbard
in that role on 12 January 2009. The Chairman is Mr A.M. Thomson,
who became Chairman on 30 April 2008, and the Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director is Mr J. Vogelsang, who also chairs the
Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee is chaired by
Mr J.A. Biles. Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on
page 28. The Board meets at least eight times a year and visits are
made to UK and overseas facilities. Certain defined issues are
reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia:
  Strategy
  Approval of financial statements and circulars
  Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals
  Annual budgets
  Directors' appointments, service agreements, remuneration and
succession planning
  Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and
environment, donations
  Committees' terms of reference
  Board and committee chairmen and membership
  Investments
  Equity and bank financing
  Internal control and risk management
  Corporate governance
  Key external and internal appointments and
  Employee share incentives and the UK Pension Scheme.
In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date
information about the trading performance of each operating location,
the Group's overall financial position and its achievement against prior
year, budgets and forecasts. They are also supplied with the latest
available information on Safety, Health and Environmental and risk
management issues and details of the safety and health performance
of the Group, and each strategic business unit in terms of severity
and frequency rates for accidents at work. 
Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice
the cost of which is reimbursed by the Company. All Directors have
access to the Company Secretary and they may also address specific
issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
In accordance with the articles of association, all newly appointed
Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two
previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves
for re-election. Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman,
are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years from the
date of first election by shareholders, after which the appointment
may be extended by mutual agreement. A statement of the Directors'
responsibilities is set out on page 16. The Board also operates three
committees. These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration
Committee and the Audit Committee.
ID4530_Bc_AR_2008_Insides_88pp_05.qxp  16/3/09  16:19  Page 17 Corporate Governance
18 Bodycote annual report 2008
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Board considers that Messrs J.A. Biles, J. Vogelsang and Dr K.
Rajagopal are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
Commitment
Attendance of Directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and
its Committees is shown in the table below. In addition there were
further unscheduled meetings of the Board, and a number of ad hoc
committee meetings to deal with nomination and divestment issues.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
meetings Committee Committee Committee
Scheduled 8422
A M Thomson 8 - 2 2
J D Hubbard 8 - - 2
D F Landless 8 - - -
D R Sleight 8 - - -
S C Harris 2 - - -
K Rajagopal 4 1 1 -
J Vogelsang 8 4 2 2
J A Biles 8422
L Bermejo 1111
J A S Wallace 3 -- 1
All directors attended the maximum number of board or committee
meetings that they were scheduled to attend
Performance Evaluation
Messrs D F Landless and D R Sleight were appraised internally during
2008. In February 2008 the Board carried out its own evaluation of
the Board as a whole. The Remuneration and Nomination Committees
reviewed their own performance in November 2008 and the Audit
Committee reviewed its performance in December 2008.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and
for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives,
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. The Board has applied Principle C.2 of
the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the Group's significant risks, including risks arising out
of Bodycote's corporate and social engagement. The Board continuously
and regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start
of 2000 to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance
with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code
published in September 1999 and which is in accordance with revised
guidance on internal control published October 2005. The Board's
monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management systems. It is based principally
on reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to
consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and
indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Audit Committee
assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
During 2008, in compliance with provision C.2.1, the Board also
performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control
arising during the period covered by the report including the work of
Internal Audit. In addition, the Managing Director of each of the Group's
Strategic Business Units reported on the existing internal control
procedure and any failings or weaknesses. They identified and made
an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses they control,
in each case with the assistance of input from those reporting directly
to them. Such risks were measured against their own stated
objectives, and actions for any improvements were scheduled against
a timetable for later verification by Internal Audit. The Group also
conducted a review of risks which principally affected the head office
functions and with the help of an external consultant reviewed these
with the Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer,
the Head of Tax, the Senior Internal Auditor, the Chief Engineer (Europe),
the Insurance Manager, the Director of Safety, Health and Environmental
Compliance and the Chief Information Officer. No significant previously
unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process, and the
necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any
significant failings or weaknesses identified as part of the reviews.
Investor relations
The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet
institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has
enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the
Group's strategy. The business of the Annual General Meeting now
comprises a review of the Group's operations for the benefit of
shareholders attending. In addition, since 1998, internet users have
been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price
via the Bodycote website at www.bodycote.com. Users of the
website can also enrol free for a service that automatically notifies
them of results announcements and recent significant Group events.
Bodycote's financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public
relations consultants provide the Directors with opinion surveys from
analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with
the Chief Executive and Finance Director. Non-Executive Directors
are themselves invited to attend analysts' presentations at the time
of the regular results announcements. As stated on page 17 the
Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are
available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive
and Finance Director. On specific issues, such as the introduction in
2003 of the share option scheme, in 2005 with the stock bonus plan,
in 2006 with the introduction of long term incentive and share matching
schemes, the bid approach from Sulzer AG and in 2008 the return of
cash, the Company will seek the views of leading investors.
ID4530_Bc_AR_2008_Insides_88pp_05.qxp  16/3/09  16:19  Page 18