 Governance
33 Bonmarch  Annual Report   2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the first Audit Committee report since 
the Company listed on AIM in November 
2013. The new Committee has the required 
membership, independence and experience 
to remain objective and to support the 
management of an AIM listed company.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
ensuring that the financial performance of the 
Group is properly reported and reviewed. Its 
role includes monitoring the integrity of the 
financial statements (including annual and 
interim accounts and results announcements), 
reviewing internal control and risk 
management systems, reviewing any 
changes to accounting policies, reviewing 
and monitoring the extent of the non-audit 
services undertaken by external auditors 
and advising on the appointment of 
external auditors. 
The Committee has developed an agenda 
which will enable it to review those areas 
of responsibility and provide oversight 
of management and external auditors. 
In particular, in the forthcoming year it 
will examine the risk and internal control 
framework to assess the adequacy of the 
controls the Company has established 
around financial and business processes. 
The systems the Company had in place as 
it moved from a private company to an AIM 
listed entity were sound. Our agenda for the 
year is to keep these under review and work 
with management and the Board to ensure 
that we maintain a robust control framework.
As a Committee, we intend to comply with 
best practice as advised by various corporate 
governance bodies, where practical and 
appropriate for a company of Bonmarch ' s 
size and maturity. In the year under review 
non-audit fees paid to the auditor were 
greater than the audit fee. This was as a result 
of the auditors' involvement in the Company' s 
IPO. In future years it is the policy of the 
Committee that this will not be the case, other 
than in circumstances where the particular 
knowledge of the auditors or the urgency 
of the need for assistance best places 
them to perform the work required. In all 
circumstances, this would only be with the 
consent of the Committee after careful 
consideration.
Finally, I'd like to thank management and the 
Group' s auditors on behalf of the Committee 
for the thorough induction and ongoing 
co-operation in providing the Committee with 
the necessary information and assistance 
during the period. 
Ishbel Macpherson 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
13 June 2014
Members of the Audit Committee
The Committee consists of two independent 
Non-executive Directors: me (as Chairman) 
and John Coleman. The Chairman of the 
Company, Tim Mason attends as an 
observer. Beth Butterwick and Stephen 
Alldridge may attend the Committee 
meetings by invitation. 
The Audit Committee met twice in the year.
The Board is satisfied that I, as Chairman of 
the Committee, have recent and relevant 
financial experience. A representative from 
Prism Cosec acts as Secretary to the 
Committee. I report the Committee' s 
deliberations at the next Board meeting and 
the minutes of each meeting are made 
available to all members of the Board.
Duties
The main duties of the Audit Committee are 
set out in its T erms of Reference, which are 
available on the Company' s website  
(www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk), and include 
the requirements:
 - to monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group, including its 
annual and half year reports;
 - to review and challenge where necessary 
any changes to, and the consistency of, 
accounting policies, whether the Group has 
followed appropriate accounting standards 
and made appropriate estimates and 
judgements, taking into account the views 
of the external auditors, the going concern 
assumption and all material information 
presented with the financial statements;
 - to keep under review the effectiveness of the 
Group' s internal control systems (including 
financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management) and to 
review and approve the statements to be 
included in the Annual Report concerning 
internal controls and risk management;
 - to assess regularly the need for an internal 
audit function;
 - to consider and make recommendations 
to the Board, to be put to shareholders 
for approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, in relation to the appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the 
Company' s external auditors;
 - to ensure that at least every ten years the 
audit services contract is put out to tender;
Ishbel Macpherson
Audit Committee Chairman 34 Bonmarch  Annual Report   2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
continued
 - to oversee the relationship with the external 
auditors including approval of their 
remuneration, approval of their terms of 
engagement, assessment annually their 
independence and objectivity taking into 
account relevant professional and regulatory 
requirements and the relationship with the 
auditors as a whole, including the provision 
of any non-audit services;
 - to meet regularly with the external auditors 
and at least once a year, without any 
Executive Director or other member of 
management present to discuss any issues 
arising from the audit;
 - to review and approve the annual audit plan 
and review the findings of the audit; and
 - to review the Group' s arrangements for its 
employees and contractors to raise 
concerns in confidence about possible 
improprieties in financial reporting or other 
matters, the Group' s procedures for 
detecting fraud and the Group' s anti-
bribery procedures.
Principal activities during the year
The main items of business considered by the 
Audit Committee during the period between 
AIM admission and the year-end included:
 - review of the financial statements and 
Annual Report;
 - consideration of the external audit report;
 - Audit Committee membership;
 - going concern review;
 - review of the audit plan;
 - review of suitability of the external auditors;
 - review of the risk management and internal 
control systems;
 - assessment of the need for an internal 
audit function;
 - adoption of a policy on non-audit fees;
 - review and recommendation to the Board 
on a Whistleblowing policy; and
 - review and recommendation to the Board 
on procedures to comply with the UK 
Bribery Act.
Role of the external auditor
The Audit Committee monitors the 
relationship with the external auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , to ensure that 
auditor independence and objectivity are 
maintained. As part of its review the 
Committee monitors the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditors. 
The breakdown of fees between audit and 
non-audit services is provided on page 50. 
The non-audit fees all relate to advisory 
work for the IPO and audit of the financial 
statements for the half year prior to the IPO. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied as to the 
necessity for the auditors to carry out this 
work, and that it did not impair their 
independence or objectivity. 
The Audit Committee has established a policy 
going forward that limits the payment for 
non-audit services to the auditors to a 
maximum of 50% of the audit fee in any one 
year, other than in circumstances where 
there is a compelling commercial or other 
reason to involve the auditors to a greater 
extent and then only with the prior consent 
of the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee also assesses as the 
auditors' performance. Having reviewed the 
auditors' independence and performance 
the Audit Committee recommends that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed 
as the Company' s auditors at the next AGM.
Consistent with the Auditing Practices 
Board, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP audit 
partners serve for a maximum of five years 
on listed clients.
Internal audit
At present the Group does not have an 
internal audit function. The business has 
reviewed the need for an internal audit 
function, and concluded that it currently 
derives assurance as to the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal controls and risk 
management procedures without one.
Monitoring and control is achieved using a 
range of preventative and detective controls. 
Formal policies and procedures are in place 
for key financial and operational activities and 
a risk management framework has been 
introduced following the IPO. Management will 
continue to evaluate the need for additional 
assurance and where necessary, may consider 
using an outsourced service provider to 
undertake ad-hoc assessments. Policies, 
procedures and controls will be monitored on 
an ongoing basis, and the need for an internal 
audit function will be kept under review. 
Audit process
The auditors prepare an audit plan for their 
review of the full year and half year financial 
statements. The audit plan sets out the scope 
of the audit, areas to be targeted and audit 
timetable. This plan is reviewed and agreed in 
advance by the Audit Committee. Following 
their review the auditors presented their 
findings to the Audit Committee for 
discussion. No major areas of concern were 
highlighted by the auditors during the year. 
Whistleblowing
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed 
a formal whistleblowing policy which was 
adopted by the Board. The policy sets out a 
formal process by which an employee of the 
Group may, in confidence, raise concerns 
about possible improprieties in financial 
reporting or other matters. Whistleblowing 
reports will be reviewed on an annual basis 
by the Committee or more frequently should 
the need arise.