 18
Booker Group plc 
annual report & accounts 2013
Chairman's Introduction to the Audit Committee Report
I am pleased to present the Report of the Audit Committee for 2013. This Report provides shareholders with an overview of the 
activities carried out during the year. The Committee has an annual cycle of work which is described in more detail below together 
with more significant specific topics which received particular attention from the Committee.
On behalf of the Board
Andrew Cripps
Chairman of the Audit Committee
22 May 2013 
Role of the Committee
The Committee has defined Terms of Reference, which were reviewed in May 2011 and can be found in the Investor Relations/
l egal Documents section of the Group's website. A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary. In addition to monitoring 
the integrity of the financial statements and other announcements of financial results published by the Group, the principal 
purpose of the Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and external audit.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Andrew Cripps and also comprises l ord Bilimoria and Stewart Gilliland all of whom are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Andrew Cripps, who is a Chartered Accountant, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience, as required by the Code. He has substantial and recent audit committee experience and ensures that the 
Committee remains abreast of accounting and regulatory developments. l ord Bilimoria is also a Chartered Accountant and 
Stewart Gilliland has substantial relevant commercial experience. The Committee has access to the Group's finance team, to its 
internal audit function and to its external auditors and can seek further professional training and advice, at the Group's cost, as 
appropriate. Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors' biographies on page 11 and their 
remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report. 
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director. Only members of 
the Committee have the right to attend committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson, Chief Executive, Jonathan 
Prentis, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor were invited to attend 
meetings. The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor without management 
being present. 
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year
The Committee met five times during the year ended 29 March 2013 to: 
  review the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 30 March 2012, the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts and 
the Interim Results Announcement for the period to 14 September 2012. Inherent in these reviews was consideration of the 
accounting principles, policies and procedures adopted in the Group's financial statements, including, where necessary, 
challenge to the judgements made and the accompanying narrative when appropriate;
  receive reports from the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor;
  approve the internal and external auditor's work plans for the Group;
  review and monitor the external auditor's independence and objectivity, consider the effectiveness of the audit process, the 
re-appointment of the external auditor and approve the external auditor's remuneration; and
  approve the appropriateness of the external auditor providing non-audit services and related fees.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Booker Group plc 
annual report & accounts 2013
19
Since 29 March 2013, the Audit Committee has met twice to:
  consider the accounting for the acquisition of Makro;
  review the significant judgement areas affecting the financial statements, including those related to properties, taxation and 
pension valuation; and
  review the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 29 March 2013 and the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
Members' attendance record was as follows:
Attendance
Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance
Andrew Cripps (Chairman) 5 100%
l ord Bilimoria 5 100%
Stewart Gilliland 4 80%
Stewart Gilliland was unable to attend a Committee meeting in October 2012 due to a prior personal commitment.
Accounting Policies
The Committee reviewed the suitability of the Group's Accounting Policies and changes to regulatory requirements. There were 
no changes to accounting standards that are significant to the Group's results for the year. The Committee noted that for the 
next financial year the Group will adopt revisions to IAS 19, Defined Benefit Plans, which require recognition of a net return on the 
excess of pension fund liabilities over assets in the Income Statement, with differences going to Other Comprehensive Income, 
and a consequential reduction in reported earnings per share, which will require restatement of comparative information.
Judgemental Areas
Key risk and judgement areas are reviewed in assessing the external auditor's plan, their areas of audit focus and the internal audit 
plan. In advance of approval of each set of published financial statements, the Committee considers the key assumptions and 
judgements made and reviews these with the Group Finance Director. These potential alternative treatments are discussed with the 
external auditor. The Committee also examines the impact of sensitivities around future cash flows and other risks in considering the 
appropriateness of the going concern assumption. This year, particular attention was paid to accounting for the acquisition of Makro, 
property provisions, taxation and the assumptions underpinning the pension valuation.
Internal Controls
The Committee discussed the control environment with the Group Finance Director and received reports from the internal 
auditors. This included steps taken to ensure the effective implementation of new systems in the growing business in India.
Whistleblowing Programme
The Group has a whistleblowing programme in all of its operations whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters 
where they feel a malpractice is taking place, or if health and safety standards are being compromised. Additional areas that are 
addressed by this procedure include criminal activities, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The programme allows employees to raise their concerns with their line manager or, if that is inappropriate, to raise them on a 
confidential basis. An externally facilitated confidential helpline and confidential email facility are provided to protect the identity of 
employees in these circumstances. Any concerns are investigated on a confidential basis by the Human Resources Department 
and/or the Company Secretary and feedback is given to the person making the complaint as appropriate via the confidential email 
facility. An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure and reported to the Committee. 
Internal Audit
The Committee approves the appointment of the Head of Internal Audit who has open access to the Chairman of the Committee. 
The Committee also routinely meet alone with the Head of Internal Audit. During the year the Committee reviewed the focus 
of the internal audit team, its skills and resources and approved its annual plan. Compliance with the plan and findings 
from internal audit reports are regularly reviewed. The Committee also sought further controls over timely implementation of 
recommendations made. 20
Booker Group plc 
annual report & accounts 2013
Non-audit services
The Committee recognises the potential for any non-audit services to compromise auditor independence and the external auditor 
is not permitted to conduct any assignment which may affect objectivity or independence. Subject to this, where it is helpful to 
the Group for KPMG to provide assistance, the Committee monitor the services provided and fees charged.
In view of their knowledge of the Group's ways of working and the importance of efficient integration of the acquired business, 
KPMG were asked to provide due diligence and reporting accountant services in respect of the acquisition of Makro. It is rare and 
relatively inefficient for other than the Company's external auditor to perform the role of the reporting accountant. The aggregate 
fee for this amounted to  645,000.
Other non-audit work comprised small assignments to assist with tax compliance and other matters for aggregate fees of 
 87,000. The Committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being conducted by the 
external auditor and that it is not of a nature which would affect their independence as auditors. 
As a result of their role as reporting accountants, the aggregate non-audit fees paid to the external auditor during the year were 
relatively high at  732,000. Nonetheless the Committee are satisfied that the external auditor's independence was not affected 
by this work or level of fees.
Appointment and independence of external auditor
At its first meeting after the year end audit, the Committee regularly reviews the quality and efficiency of the previous year-end 
procedures and audit. This year the Committee have been assisted by a letter from the Audit Quality Review Team of the Financial 
Reporting Council who review the audits of a sample of major companies as part of their statutory duty. Conclusions of the 
Committee's review are taken up the following year and enable the Committee to be confident in recommending reappointment 
of the external auditors. The Committee also reviews the auditor's annual plan, paying particular attention to the proposed areas 
of audit focus, the continuity and experience of the audit team and their independence.
KPMG has been the Company's external auditor since 2005. To ensure the external auditor's independence is safeguarded, the 
lead audit partner is changed at least every five years which last occurred in 2010. The Committee reviews the relationship the 
Company has with KPMG annually and for the year ended 29 March 2013, the Committee was satisfied with the performance, 
objectivity and independence of KPMG as the external auditor. 
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board and to shareholders that KPMG should be re-appointed as the 
Company's auditor at the AGM on 10 July 2013 and KPMG has signified its willingness to continue in office. 
Committee performance and effectiveness
The Board undertook an annual review of the Committee's performance and effectiveness and concluded that the Committee 
operated effectively.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2013.
Andrew Cripps
Chairman of the Audit Committee
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
continued