 54		 |		 Annual	report	and	accounts		 |		 Governance
Governance
Audit Committee report
Introduction
The Audit Committee provides independent monitoring, 
guidance and challenge to executive management with  
the aim of ensuring high standards of reporting, controls  
and compliance. In doing so, it performs an important function 
for the Board and in providing assurance for shareholders.  
The Committee's role covers the four connected areas of 
financial reporting, risk, internal control and oversight of 
external and internal audit. 
Committee membership and meetings
All members of the Committee are independent non- 
executive directors. John Warren, who chairs the Committee, 
is a qualified accountant and a previous group finance 
director who has past experience in chairing audit committees 
and fulfils the requirement for recent and relevant financial 
experience. Alastair Lyons and Colin Holmes are also  
qualified accountants and have broad business and  
operational experience and chair audit committees of 
listed companies. This combination provides a high level 
of financial expertise to fulfil the duties of the Committee. 
Recommendations on Committee membership are made to the 
Board by the Nomination Committee and it is also reviewed as 
part of the Committee's performance evaluation. There were 
no changes to Committee membership during the year.
 
Name
 
Date of appointment
 
Role
Attendance 
at meetings
John Warren 01/03/2006 Chairman 3/3
Alastair Lyons 01/10/2008 Member 3/3
Colin Holmes 01/12/2006 Member 3/3
The Committee met three times in 2012 and an overview of 
the main activities is provided below. Detailed papers and 
information were received sufficiently in advance of meetings 
to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion. 
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director attend meetings by invitation and were present at all 
meetings in 2012. The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and 
the Internal Audit Director were also in attendance at  
all meetings. 
The Committee also met with the external auditors and 
Internal Audit, without executive management, following 
review of the 2011 financial statements, the final audit and 
the 2011 Internal Audit report and no matters of concern were 
raised in this discussion. John Warren also met privately with 
both the audit engagement partner of the external auditors 
and the Internal Audit Director during the year. The Committee 
is supported by Martin Palmer (Group Company Secretary), 
who acts as secretary to the Committee.
Responsibilities and terms of reference
The Committee's main responsibilities are to oversee and 
monitor: the integrity of the financial statements, including 
reviewing the findings of the external auditors; the effectiveness 
of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk 
management; the effectiveness of Internal Audit; the external 
audit process, including the appointment of the external 
auditor, their fees, independence and objectivity; and the 
nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness. 
The Committee is also responsible for the policy on the 
engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit 
services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance. External 
legal or other independent professional advice can be obtained 
at the Company's expense and this facility was not utilised 
during the year.
The Committee's terms of reference are available on the 
Company's website (www.bovishomesgroup.co.uk/investor-
centre/corporate-governance).
Main activities during the year
The Committee followed a programme structured around the 
annual reporting cycle and reports from Internal Audit, the 
external auditors and management. The key financial reporting 
focus was, as usual, on the integrity of the preliminary results, 
the Annual Report, the half-yearly results and the half-yearly 
financial report, all published under IFRS. As part of the 
review process, the Company's key accounting judgements 
were considered, together with an assessment of subjective 
areas, and the Committee satisfied itself that the Annual 
Report presented a true and fair view. Matters informing 
the assessment of going concern were considered, as 
described on page 36. Presentations for analysts following the 
announcement of the final and half-yearly results also received 
scrutiny before submission to the Board. Submissions from the 
external auditors relating to the 2011 final audit, the 2012 
interim review and the audit strategy for the 2012 final audit 
were discussed and assessed, and the results and effectiveness 
of the 2011 final audit were reviewed by assessing delivery 
and content against the audit plan, discussing and challenging 
conclusions and audit judgements and obtaining feedback 
from those involved.  Bovis	Homes	Group	PLC		 |		 55
The Committee reviewed the system of internal control and risk 
management systems and reported its findings to the Board that 
there were no material control weaknesses. Reports from Internal 
Audit were considered and the content, conclusions and results 
were challenged and tested and progress with the actions agreed 
with management were reviewed. The focus of the Internal 
Audit programme for 2013 and the resources that would be 
needed were also reviewed. A review was also completed of the 
Committee's terms of reference and the Company's whistleblowing 
policy and arrangements.
External auditors
During the year, the Committee reviewed the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors, which was confirmed in 
an independence letter containing information on procedures 
providing safeguards established by the external auditor. 
Regulation, professional requirements and ethical standards are 
taken into account, together with consideration of all relationships 
between the Company and the external auditors and their staff. 
Relations with the external auditors are managed through a series 
of meetings and regular discussions and we ensure a high quality 
audit by challenging the key areas of the external auditor's work. 
The relationship is kept under review and, following adopted 
practice, the audit engagement partner rotated on completion of 
the 2011 final audit after five years in the post.
Our 2013 AGM Notice contains a resolution for the re-appointment 
of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company. In making this 
recommendation, the Committee took into account, amongst 
other matters, the independence and objectivity of KPMG  
Audit Plc, their continuing effectiveness and cost. The external 
auditors have been in post since flotation in 1997 and there are  
no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditor.  
The 2013 AGM Notice also contains a resolution to give the 
directors authority to determine the auditors' remuneration,  
which provides a practical flexibility to the Committee. 
The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the 
Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be 
undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of  
tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary 
course of business and audit related services, which are treated as 
pre-approved. When an approval request is made, the Committee 
will have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, 
whether the external auditor is a suitable supplier, whether there 
is likely to be any threat to independence and objectivity in the 
conduct of the audit, and the related fee level, both separately and 
relative to the audit fee. For an analysis of fees paid to the external 
auditors, see note 5 on page 74. The non-audit services provided 
during the year related to tax advisory and compliance work. 
Provision of these services is not considered to impair the external 
auditor's independence or objectivity.
Internal audit function
The Internal Audit function follows an approved audit programme 
using a risk based methodology and the Committee has approved 
its remit. Reporting to the Committee includes summaries of all 
completed and ongoing audit assignments, allowing members 
of the Committee to question the Internal Audit Director. 
Progress against the annual audit programme is reviewed and 
management's response and speed of action in respect of issues 
raised is monitored. The effectiveness, workload and adequacy of 
resources of the Internal Audit function is kept under review using 
a planning, reporting and review regime. The freedom, scope and 
access allowed to Internal Audit in performing their duties during 
the year were confirmed as unrestricted and the Internal Audit 
Director has direct access to the Chairman of the Committee. 
An external formal review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function was completed towards the end of 2012 and the overall 
outcome was positive, with opportunities being identified to add 
value and support business growth.
Performance evaluation
The Committee commenced a performance evaluation towards the 
end of 2012, using a discussion and interview process designed to 
produce an objective assessment of the Committee's performance 
and audit effectiveness. The Committee was found to be effective 
and continued to be well run, with the level of accounting 
and financial expertise providing strong challenge. It was also 
concluded that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference 
and had fulfilled its remit in 2012 and that the audit process 
continued to be effective. 
John	Warren	 	
Chairman of the Audit Committee
22 February 2013