 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
27 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
26
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance and managing the Company 
in a flexible, effective and entrepreneurial manner for 
the benefit of all its stakeholders over the long term. The 
Company is not subject to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code ( the Code'). However, the Board firmly supports 
the principles of good corporate governance as set out  
in the Code and complies, so far as it feels is appropriate 
for an AIM-listed company of its size and complexity ,  
by adopting the Quoted Company Alliance (QCA) 
Corporate Governance Code for Small and Mid-Size 
Quoted Companies 2013 ( the QCA Code') except that:
 > not all of the directors forming the Remuneration  
and Audit Committees may be deemed independent, 
as defined by the QCA Code. Michael Jackson  
has links, both current and historical, with other 
directors through their mutual involvement in other 
companies; and
 > the Board does not undertake a formal evaluation  
of its performance, as this is constantly under review 
given its size.
This corporate governance statement, together with  
the directors' remuneration report and Audit Committee 
report, explains how the Company has applied the 
principles of the QCA Code.
Board responsibilities
The Board's principal responsibilities are to provide the 
overall vision and leadership for the Company , maintain 
reliable systems of control and deliver shareholder value. 
It determines corporate strategy , reviews the Group's 
operating and financial performance to ensure it is 
effectively controlled, and is the primary decision-maker 
for all matters considered to be significant to the Group 
as a whole.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for 
approval by the Board, which gives it responsibility for:
 > the long term objectives and commercial strategy  
of the Company;
 > the approval of the annual operating and capital 
expenditure budgets;
 > changes to the Group's capital structure;
 > changes to the Group's activities;
 > approval of major acquisitions and disposals;
 > corporate governance;
 > approval of treasury policies; and
 > approval of material capital expenditure projects.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board  
can be viewed on the Company's website at  
www.advancedcomputersoftware.com/ 
governance.php
Board composition and balance
The Board, chaired by Michael Jackson, comprises four 
executive directors and two non-executive directors.  
The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate 
easily and freely and exercise their individual skills and 
experience in the decision-making process. The directors 
have a wide range of relevant business and financial 
experience and knowledge which is vital to the success 
of the Group. The biographies of the directors can be 
found on page 21.
During the year, one director resigned and three new 
directors were appointed. Mark Watts resigned from  
the Board on 17 September 2012, after four years with  
the Group, in order to concentrate on the earlier stage 
positions in the Marwyn portfolio. Two non-executive 
directors - Mike McGoun and Guy Millward - and  
Chief Operating Officer, Paul Gibson, were appointed  
on 19 November 2012. Following the subsequent 
appointment of Guy Millward as Chief Financial Officer 
on 10 June 2013, the newly-established Nomination 
Committee is seeking to improve the balance between 
executive and non-executive directors on the Board,  
by appointing two further non-executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have clearly 
defined and distinct roles. The Chairman is primarily 
responsible for the efficient operation of the Board and 
corporate governance. The Chief Executive Officer is 
responsible for implementing the Group's strategy and 
also leads the communication programme with analysts 
and potential investors.
Board process
The Board carries out its duties with the assistance of the 
Board committees.
At the beginning of each year, Board and Committee 
meetings are scheduled in line with the key financial 
reporting dates. Additional meetings are arranged  
as necessary for specific purposes. An agenda and 
supporting papers are distributed in a timely manner 
ahead of each meeting to enable the Board or 
Committee to function effectively and to allow  
directors to discharge their responsibilities. Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
27 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
26
Overview Business review Governance Financials
The table below shows the number of scheduled 
meetings of the Board and its committees that individual 
directors could have attended during the year and their 
actual attendance.
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Number of  
meetings held 9 2 1
Michael Jackson 9 2 1
Vin Murria 9 - -
Barbara Firth 8 - -
Paul Gibson 
(appointed  
19 November 2012) 3 - -
Mark Watts  
(resigned  
17 September 2012) 2 1 1
Mike McGoun 
(appointed  
19 November 2012) 3 1 -
Guy Millward 
(appointed  
19 November 2012) 2 1 -
Procedures are in place to capture the disclosure by 
directors of any situations which may conflict with the 
Company's interests. All such disclosures are recorded 
and the Board confirms that the procedures have 
operated effectively during the year under review.
The directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary and all directors are able to take 
independent professional advice if necessary and at the 
Company's expense.
Board committees
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its  
various committees. The terms of reference of each of  
the committees are available to view on the Company's 
website at www.advancedcomputersoftware.com/
governance.php
Details of the work of the Audit and Remuneration 
committees are set out in the Audit Committee report  
on page 29 and 30 and in the directors' remuneration 
report on pages 31 to 33.
The Nomination Committee was established after  
the year end. It will report on its activities in the  
2014 annual report.
Election and re-election of directors
Any directors appointed during the year submit 
themselves for election by shareholders at the next 
annual general meeting. The Company's articles of 
association require that directors retire and stand for 
re-election at least once every three years.
Directors' indemnity and insurance
In accordance with the articles of association, the 
Company has provided indemnities to the directors  
(to the extent permitted by the Companies Act) in 
respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.  
The Company has taken out an insurance policy in 
respect of those liabilities for which directors may not  
be indemnified. Neither the indemnity nor insurance 
provides cover in the event that the director is proved  
to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring  
that the Group maintains a system of internal control  
to provide it with reasonable assurance regarding  
effective and efficient operations, internal financial 
control and compliance with laws and regulations.  
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging  
its responsibilities in this regard. The Board is not aware  
of any significant failings or weaknesses in the system  
of internal control. The risk management process and 
system of internal control can only manage rather than 
eliminate risk and the Board recognises that this system 
of internal control can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure. 
Managers assume responsibility for running day-to-day 
operational activities, with performance regularly 
reviewed, and employees are required to follow 
procedures and policies appropriate to their position 
within the business.
The Board is responsible for identifying, evaluating  
and managing all major business risks facing the Group. 
To facilitate the assessment of risks, monthly reports on 
non-financial matters are compiled by all business units 
covering such matters as sales performance, project 
progress, compliance, health and safety , environment, 
product quality , customer support metrics and human 
resource issues.  Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
29 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
28
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting 
financial results to the Board. Monthly accounts for each 
business unit, with a financial commentary comparing 
current year performance with budget and forecast, 
together with key performance metrics, are prepared  
in accordance with the Group accounting policies and 
principles for Board consideration.
The Board monitors the Group's funding requirements, 
treasury function and banking facilities and approves 
capital and significant investment expenditure.
The Board considers that there have been no substantial 
weaknesses in internal financial controls that have 
resulted in material loss, contingency or uncertainty 
which require to be disclosed in the accounts. 
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee,  
the Board has determined that a separate internal  
audit function is not appropriate given the size and 
complexity of the Group, but it will continue to review  
the position periodically.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining 
good relationships with the Company's shareholders. 
Relations with shareholders are managed principally  
by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer. Following the announcement of the half year 
and year end results, a series of formal meetings takes 
place with institutional shareholders which allows the 
executive directors to form relationships with actual  
and potential investors and for shareholders to discuss 
long term issues and communicate their views. The 
Company's brokers and financial PR advisers provide 
feedback from investor and analyst meetings which  
is communicated to the Board as a whole.
The annual general meeting provides a welcome 
opportunity for the Board to communicate directly  
with shareholders.
The Company maintains a website at  
www.advancedcomputersoftware.com  
which contains further information on the Group,  
regulatory announcements and financial statements.
Corporate governance statement
continued