 38
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
Audit Committee report
Michael Jackson
Audit Committee Chairman
The following pages comprise 
the Audit Committee report for  
the year ended 28 February 2014.
As noted earlier in the Chairman's governance report, the 
Board delegates certain duties, responsibilities and powers  
to the Audit Committee, so that these can receive suitably 
focussed attention. However, the committee acts on behalf  
of the full Board and the matters reviewed and managed  
by the committee remain the responsibility of the Board  
as a whole.
Role of the Audit Committee
The authorities delegated to the committee from the  
Board are set out in the committee's terms of reference  
and cover all the matters recommended under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The terms of reference  
can be viewed on the Company's website at  
www.advancedcomputersoftware.com.
The committee's primary responsibilities are to:
 > monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcement relating to its financial 
performance, reviewing any significant financial reporting 
issues and judgements which they contain;
 > review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's 
internal financial controls and internal control and risk 
management systems;
 > make recommendations to the Board, to be put to 
shareholders for approval in general meeting, on the 
appointment of the Company's external auditor and 
approval of their terms of engagement and remuneration;
 > assess annually the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into account relevant professional and regulatory 
requirements; and
 > develop and implement a policy on the supply of non-audit 
services by the external auditor, taking into account any 
relevant ethical guidance on the matter.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board after each  
Audit Committee meeting, making recommendations to the 
Board where it considers action or improvement is needed.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are Michael Jackson 
(Chairman), Mike McGoun and Chris Hand, who joined  
the committee following his appointment to the Board in 
December 2013. Guy Millward was a member of the committee 
from his appointment to the Board on 19 November 2012 until 
7 March 2013, when he accepted the role of Chief Financial 
Officer of the Company.
Michael Jackson, who chairs the committee, is a chartered 
accountant and the Board regards Michael as the member 
possessing recent and relevant financial skills. For the past  
30 years he has specialised in raising finance for the smaller 
companies sector. Mike McGoun has a wealth of management 
experience within the IT industry and Chris Hand brings 
experience and knowledge of the healthcare sector to the mix. 
The biographies of all Board members are set out on pages 30 
and 31. The varied backgrounds of the committee's members 
and their collective skills, experience and knowledge of the 
Company enable them to fulfil the committee's remit and  
to oversee the Company's auditors.
Meetings
The Audit Committee meets formally at least twice per year 
and has an agenda linked to the Group's financial calendar. 
During the year under review, the committee met on two 
occasions and attendance at those meetings is shown  
on page 36.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, Chief Financial 
Officer and Chief Operating Officers to attend for all or part  
of its meetings, as and when appropriate. The Secretary  
to the committee is Barbara Firth.
Activities of the committee
The committee has an annual work plan developed from  
its terms of reference and linked to the Company's  
corporate calendar.
Since March 2013, the committee has:
 > reviewed the 2013 annual report and financial statements, 
the 2014 half year review and 2014 annual report and 
financial statements;
 > received reports from the external auditor on their audit  
of the annual report and financial statements and the half 
year review; 
 > considered key accounting policies and judgements, the 
going concern assumption and compliance with relevant 
accounting standards; Strategic report Governance Financials
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
39
 > reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be 
undertaken by the external auditor;
 > agreed the fees to be paid to the auditor for their audit  
of the 2014 report and accounts and financial statements;
 > monitored the external auditor's compliance with applicable 
ethical guidance and, in addition, considered their 
independence and objectivity taking into account  
all appropriate guidelines;
 > recommended to the Board the reappointment  
of the external auditor; and
 > reviewed the whistleblowing policy and the policy  
on use of the external auditor.
The committee received a report from management setting 
out the main items of discussion with the external auditor in 
relation to the 2014 audit and the key areas of judgement taken 
by management on each. The significant judgements considered 
by the committee in relation to the 2014 accounts were:
 > revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
economic benefits will flow to the Group. There is a key area 
of judgement in the timing of this recognition, in particular 
around large contracts and the percentage complete for 
each one at a period end. The Group's revenue recognition 
policy is as set out in note 3 to the financial statements and 
has been followed consistently throughout the year. The 
committee has concluded that the timing of recognition 
continues to be in line with IFRS requirements and is 
comfortable that the judgements made are appropriate.
 > impairment of intangible assets 
The carrying amounts of the Group's goodwill and 
acquisition-related assets were reviewed to determine 
whether there was any indication of impairment. The key 
judgement surrounds whether the discounted future cash 
flows of the cash generating units (CGUs) exceed the book 
value of their intangible assets. The committee is satisfied 
that there is considerable headroom between the values in 
use calculated and the values of the intangible assets in the 
books. In addition, the Group's external market 
capitalisation - a useful comparator for the value of the 
intangibles as the Group is largely made up of acquisitions 
- was considered. At the year end, the market capitalisation 
was, and continues to be, significantly in excess of the assets 
on the balance sheet. The committee concurs with 
management's assessment that the value in use of the CGUs 
exceeds the carrying value of the goodwill and intangible 
assets and consequently that no goodwill impairment is 
required. Further information on the treatment of intangible 
assets is set out in note 12 to the financial statements on 
page 68.
 > deferred tax 
The key judgement in this area relates to recognition of 
deferred tax assets on future tax benefits available from 
losses and other tax deductible items brought forward from 
prior periods, in this case acquired with acquisitions. A 
deferred tax asset is only recognised where it is likely that tax 
benefits can be utilised in the next three years. Tax benefits 
are not recognised if there is any uncertainty over whether 
the benefits can be utilised.
 > going concern 
In considering going concern, the committee reviewed 
cash flow forecasts for the four years to February 2018 and 
debt covenant forecasts for the same period. The forecasts 
indicated that the Group should comfortably generate 
sufficient cash to pay down and service its debts. 
Consequently, the committee agreed that it was appropriate 
to apply the going concern concept to the preparation of 
the financial statements.
 > purchase price allocation 
When the Group makes an acquisition, it is required  
to separately value all assets acquired. For significant 
acquisitions, the Group uses specialist external valuers. 
The committee considered the report from these valuers  
for the CSH and Compass acquisitions during the year  
and concluded that the valuations shown in the financial 
statements were appropriate.
External auditor
The committee is responsible for managing the Group's 
relationship with the external auditor, including approving  
the terms of their engagement and monitoring their 
independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and 
regulatory requirements. A formal external auditor policy, 
which includes details of the non-audit services which the 
external auditor is and is not allowed to provide to the Group, 
together with a policy on the employment of former partners 
and employees of the external auditor, is in place and is 
reviewed annually.
Internal audit function
The committee considers on an annual basis the requirement 
for an internal audit function. Due to the size and complexity  
of the Group, the committee continues to believe that there  
is no requirement for an internal audit function at this time. 
Instead, the Group-level finance function will continue  
to review the financial reporting provided by the subsidiary 
operations. Since last year, the Group-level finance function 
has been expanded and its skills base enhanced.
Conclusion
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee 
considers that it has acted in accordance with its terms of 
reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity  
of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the committee will be available at the annual 
general meeting to answer any questions about the work  
of the committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Michael Jackson
Chairman
4 June 2014