 62 | Brammer plc | Annual Report 2012
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
I: Financial risk factors
The group's activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk,
cash flow and interest rate risk. The group's overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the group's financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (group treasury) under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the group' s operating units. The Board provides
written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest
rate risk, credit risk, use of non-derivative financial instruments, and investing excess liquidity. Derivative financial instruments are used
to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates in accordance with group policy.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk and hedging activities
The group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency exposures, primarily with respect to
the Euro and Sterling. Foreign exchange risk arises primarily from recognised assets and liabilities and also net investments in foreign
operations.
The group has significant investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency
exposure arising from the net assets of the group's foreign operations is managed primarily through hedging borrowings denominated
in foreign currencies against the net assets of foreign operations denominated in the same currencies. The group documents these
hedging relationships at inception and assesses, both at inception and on an on-going basis, whether they are highly effective. Where
the hedges are highly effective, gains or losses on the borrowings are recognised in equity. The gains or losses relating to the ineffective
portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
In 2012 the group did not apply hedge accounting for hedges of exposures arising from recognised assets and liabilities in foreign
currency. Foreign operations operate primarily in local currency or have minimal net exposure to foreign currencies.
The impact on revenue and operating profit of Sterling weakening against the Euro is reflected in the segmental analysis (note 1) which
shows the results at the 2012 actual average exchange rate ( 1.23: 1) and at the 2012  management rate' ( 1.20: 1).
(ii) Cash flow and interest rate risk
The group's income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. The group's interest
rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings
issued at fixed rates expose the group to fair value interest rate risk.
As the group is principally financed by a  100 million floating rate revolving credit facility the group uses interest rate swaps to manage
exposure to floating interest rates. At 31 December 2012, the group had in place interest rate swaps which had the effect of fixing the
rate on a notional principal debt of  30 million and  10 million respectively. The group classifies such swaps as cash flow hedges and
states them at fair value which amounted to a loss of  0.3 million recognised on the balance sheet.
The group seeks to minimise cash deposits held at banks; surplus cash is used to repay external debt. The group manages liquidity
with a combination of short term cash forecasts that look three months forward on a rolling basis and identify short term cash surpluses
and requirements. Long term cash requirements are identified with a five year financial planning model that uses scenario based
planning to assess the impact of the group's strategic plans on profitability and liquidity.
The Euro yield curve at 31 December 2012 implied a decrease in interest rates of 1.5% over the course of 2013. An increase of 1.0%
applied to the borrowing under the central facility would result in an increase of approximately  0.4 million in the group' s interest expense.
(b) Credit risk
The group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers
with an appropriate credit history.
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of
committed credit facilities. Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the group's liquidity position on the basis of expected and projected cash flow. 63 | Brammer plc | Annual Report 2012
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Contractual obligations
The table below analyses the maturity profile of the group's financial liabilities based on the remaining period from the balance sheet
date to the contractual maturity date. Short-term creditors, including trade creditors and accruals, are excluded from the analysis as
they are considered to form part of the group's day-to-day operating cycle.
At 31 December 2012
Less than 1 year 2-5 years More than 5 years Total
 m  m  m  m
Long term debt obligations (note 14) 2.9 52.7 - 55.6
Finance lease obligations (note 15) 0.1 0.1 - 0.2
3.0 52.8 - 55.8
At 31 December 2011
Less than 1 year 2-5 years More than 5 years Total
 m  m  m  m
Long term debt obligations (note 14) 3.0 47.6 - 50.6
Finance lease obligations (note 15) 0.1 0.2 - 0.3
3.1 47.8 - 50.9
Long term debt obligations comprise the principal amount of borrowings where the borrowings are drawn down against a facility which
is available for more than one year. Under the facility each drawing is a separate utilisation and interest is payable at the maturity of
each utilisation. No utilisation is made for a period greater than six months.
Deferred tax, deferred consideration, and post employment benefit liabilities are not included in the table above. During 2010, the
group agreed a deficit funding plan with the trustees of the Brammer Services Limited Retirement Benefit Scheme, which provides for
the group to make payments of  2.8 million, indexed for inflation, in the years 2011 to 2023 inclusive.
II: Capital risk management
The group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns
for shareholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The group considers the gearing and capital structure of the business periodically and adjusts as appropriate. In September 2011 a
placing of 10,535,000 new ordinary shares, representing approximately 9.9% of the total issued share capital, was made in order to
fund the acquisition of the Buck & Hickman business.
The group monitors capital on the basis of headroom against its committed borrowing facilities, compliance with the covenants imposed
by the committed borrowing facilities, and the group's ability to raise further equity capital.
The group was in full compliance with all its financial covenants throughout each of the periods presented.
2012 2011
 m  m
Total borrowings (note 14) 56.0 51.2
less: cash and cash equivalents (note 12) (2.2) (15.9)
Net debt 53.8 35.3
Total equity 121.0 117.6
Total capital 174.8 152.9
In July 2011 the group signed new banking facilities for a five year term which provides up to  100 million ( 81.1 million) of debt
finance. At 31 December 2012 the committed facility is  100 million (2011:  100.0 million).
The group's headroom against its committed facility was as follows:
2012 2011
 m  m
Committed group facility 81.1 83.9
Current utilisation 51.3 46.4
Headroom (note 15) 29.8 37.5
Under the terms of the facility the group is permitted to enter into up to  53.9 million of additional net borrowings outside this facility. 64 | Brammer plc | Annual Report 2012
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
III: Key accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom
equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
(a) estimated impairment of goodwill
The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated on page 58.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations
require the use of estimates (note 8).
(b) income tax provisions
The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision
for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary
course of business. The group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will
be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will
impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made (notes 5 and 18).
(c) determination of deferred consideration payable
The level of deferred consideration recognised in respect of acquisitions is subject to continual evaluation by the directors. Any subsequent
revision to the amounts recognised will have no impact on the group's results as those adjustments will be reflected in the carrying
value of goodwill (note 17).
(d) retirement benefit obligations
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number
of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net expense for pensions include the discount rates. Any changes in these
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations.
Note 26 details the actuarial assumptions used in determining the carrying amount at 31 December 2012.
(e) share-based payments
The inputs to the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which include dividend yield, expected volatilities and risk free interest rates impact
the valuation of the fair value of the share-based payments (note 20).