 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
28
corporate governance
The Board is committed to the principles
of corporate governance and has
continued to apply the Combined Code in
a manner which it considers appropriate
for the size of the Group. In compliance
with the Code, the narrative below
describes how the Group applied the
principles, any details of non-compliance
and the reasons for this.
The Board of Directors
The Board retains full and effective control
of the Group and has a schedule of
matters specifically reserved for its
decision. The Board meets on a formal
basis regularly, and met formally 6 times
in 2007. All of the directors attended all
of the meetings. Prior to each Board
Meeting, directors are sent an agenda
including monthly management accounts
and accompanying reports from the
executive directors. Additionally, the Board
is responsible for formulating the Group's
corporate strategy, approval of budgets,
monitoring financial performance,
approval and review of major capital
expenditure, corporate governance and risk
management. Operational control is
delegated to the executive directors and
the executive management committee
(EMC). The EMC meets monthly. All
directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary and can
take independent professional advice, if
necessary, at the Group's expense. The
non-executive directors are able to contact
the executive directors at any time for
further information.
The Board consists of three executive
directors and three non-executive
directors. Whilst the Board does not meet
the Combined Code requirements, in that
at least half of the Board excluding the
Chairman should comprise non-executive
directors, the Board believes it is
appropriate for the size of the Group. The
Chairman is one of the non-executive
directors and there is a clear division of
responsibility between the Chairman and
Chief Executive. All of the non-executive
directors are considered to be
independent and independent of the
executive management. They are able to
discuss matters without the executive
directors present. The Board formally
evaluates its performance annually. Each
director completes a comprehensive
questionnaire, the results are collated by
the Company Secretary and discussed by
the Board. The Board then acts upon the
findings. Given the size of the Board, the
Board does not have a Senior
Independent Director. All directors are
required to stand for re-election at the
first annual general meeting following
their appointment and, as a minimum,
every three years, thereafter. 
Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific
authority to the Remuneration
Committee, Nominations Committee and
the Audit Committee. The non-executives
are the only members of the
Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee is chaired by
Stephen Bellamy, a chartered accountant,
and met three times in 2007. The
Committee considers the appointment
and fees of the auditors and discusses
the scope of the audit and its findings. It
is also responsible for monitoring the
Group's accounting policies, assessing
the Group's internal controls and
reviewing the annual and interim
statements prior to their submission for
approval by the Board. The Committee
has the right of access to the external
auditors without the attendance of the
executive directors, and does so regulary. 
The Audit Committee also undertakes a
formal assessment of the auditor's
independence which includes:

A review of non-audit services
provided to the Group and related
fees.

Discussion with the auditors of a
written report detailing all
relationships with the company and
any other parties that could affect
independence or the perception of
independence. 

A review of the auditor's own
procedures for ensuring the
independence of the audit firm and
partners and staff involved in the
audit, including the regular rotation of
the audit partner.

Obtaining written confirmation from
the auditor that, in its professional
judgement, it is independent.

An analysis of the fees payable to the
external audit firm in respect of both
audit and non-audit services during
the year is set out in note 5 of the
financial statements.
The lead external audit partner is rotated
on a five-year basis. For the year ended
31 December 2007 the Committees has
concluded that the external auditor
remains independent and is effective.
The Remuneration Committee comprising
solely of the non-executive directors is
chaired by Steve Harris and, in
consultation with the Chief Executive,
determines the Group's policy on
executive remuneration, employment
conditions and the individual
remuneration packages of executive
directors and senior management earning
in excess of  50,000 per annum. It
approves all new incentive schemes, the
grants of options under the Group's Share
Option Schemes, and the grant of shares
under the Group's Long Term Incentive
Plan (LTIP). The Remuneration
Committee met twice in 2007. Its report
is included on pages 24 to 27.
The Nominations Committee nominates
and recommends the appointment of new
directors to the Board and determines the
Group's policy on succession planning. 
In making recommendations, the
Committees takes into account the
balance of skill, knowledge and
experience of the Board. The Committee
is chaired by the Chairman of the Group
and comprises the non-executive
directors and the Chief Executive. 
The Nominations Committee met once 
in 2007. 
Investor Relations
The Group maintains a regular dialogue
with its shareholders, mainly in the
periods following the announcement of
the interim and final results, but also at
other times during the year. The views of
shareholders are sought through direct
contact and from feedback from advisors
and are communicated to the Board as a
whole. The Board encourages the
participation of shareholders at its annual
general meeting, notice of which is sent
to shareholders at least 20 working days
before the meeting. The AMS website
 www.admedsol.com', which was
redesigned in 2007, is regularly updated
and provides additional information on
the Group including information of the
Group's products and technology.
The Company proposes separate
resolutions for each issue. The company
ensures all proxy votes are counted and
indicates the level of proxies on each
resolution along with the abstentions
after it has been dealt with on a show of
hands. Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
29
corporate governance
stockcode: AMS
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. In the context
of the Group's business any such system
can only reasonably be expected to
manage rather than eliminate risks
arising from its operations. It can
therefore only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material loss
or misstatement.
The Combined Code required directors to
review the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal control in the wider
sense, encompassing operational and
compliance matters in addition to the
traditional financial issues.
Key features of the internal control
system are as follows:

The Group has an organisational
structure with clearly established
responsibilities and lines of
accountability. The Group promotes
the values of integrity and
professionalism. The members of the
Board are available to hear, in
confidence, any individuals concerns
about improprieties.

The Board has a schedule of matters
expressly reserved for its
consideration. This schedule includes
acquisitions, major capital projects,
treasury, risk management policies
and approval of budgets and health
and safety.

An ongoing risk management process
has been implemented which
identifies the key business risks
facing the Group including both
financial and operational risks.

The controls in place to minimise the
occurrence of the risk are
documented and analysed for
effectiveness. These include
procedures for the approval of major
expenditure or commitment of
resources.

The Board monitors the activities of
the Group through the management
accounts, monthly forecasts and other
reports on current activities and
plans. The executive management
regularly monitors financial and
operational performance in detail and
takes any necessary corrective action.
The Board reviews and continues to
review the effectiveness of the Group's
procedure in managing risk and,
therefore, believes it meets the
requirements of the Guidance.
The Audit Committee has considered the
need for internal audit. It is of the
opinion that, given the size and nature of
the Group's operations and the other
controls in place, it would not be
appropriate at the present time. The
matter is formally reviewed at least
annually. The Group does call on the
services of external bodies to review the
controls in certain areas of the Group.
The quality assurance systems are
reviewed by the Group's notified bodies,
the British Standards Institute (BSI) and
TUV Product Service on a regular basis.
The British Safety Council also reviews
and reports on the Health and Safety
Systems in the Group each year.
Going Concern
The directors are of the opinion that the
Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the accounts.
Compliance with the Combined Code
During the year ended 31 December
2007, the Group has been in compliance
with the requirements of the Combined
Code, except in the following area:

The Board believes that given its size
and complexity it is not appropriate to
specify a  senior' non-executive
director.

The non-executive directors did not
meet the executive directors without
the Chairman present to appraise his
performance.

The Terms of Reference of the
Nomination, Remuneration and Audit
Commitees are not available on the
Company's website.
By order of the Board
Mary G Tavener
Company Secretary
18 April 2008