 BPI REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code on Corporate Governance states that every listed company 
should be headed up by an effective Board that can both lead and control the business.
Corporate governance is the means by which the Board of Directors ensures that this
objective is achieved. The statement below describes how the directors have applied 
the principles of good corporate governance and complied with the Combined Code
provisions, including the Code of Best Practice, throughout the year.
THE BOARD
The Board meets a minimum of six times per year and comprises the Chairman, who
is currently also the Chief Executive, all other executive directors and four independent
non executive directors. Biographical details of each director are shown on page 18. 
The non executive directors bring strong independent judgement and considerable
knowledge and experience to the Board's deliberations. Independent professional 
advice is available to them at the Company's expense. The Board has adopted a formal
schedule of matters reserved for its decision and is assisted by Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. The Board has access to the advice and services of a full time
experienced Company Secretary appointed by the Board and independent professional
advice may be taken by the directors as required. The directors re-appointed in the year
are experienced listed company directors. On initial appointment all directors are given 
a comprehensive introduction to the Group's business activities and senior management.
The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that the mix and breadth 
of experience is sufficient to provide a balance of independent judgement. 
BOARD LEADERSHIP
The Board considers it should be free to make its choice of Chairman and Chief Executive
in any way that seems best for the Company at the relevant time. As was common
practice in small companies at the date of Cameron McLatchie's appointment, the role 
of the Chairman and Chief Executive was combined. At the 2003 Annual General Meeting
Cameron McLatchie will relinquish the role of Chief Executive whilst seeking re-election
as Chairman. A senior non executive director, Professor Neil Hood, acts as the Deputy
Chairman of the Board, chairs the Nominations and Remuneration Committees and 
is considered the lead non executive director. In his capacity as senior non executive
director he also assumes such responsibilities as might be designated by the Board. 
INDEPENDENCE OF NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Board believes that independence is a matter of judgement and conscience and 
that to be independent, non executive directors should be free from any business or
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement. Their interest in receiving fees as a director and being a shareholder should
not prejudice their independence. All non executive directors are considered to be
independent.
AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
Executive management is responsible for providing the Board with all the information 
of which it is aware that is relevant to the discharge of the Board's responsibilities. 
The Board therefore expects to receive timely advice on all material information 
about the company, its operating units, its activities, performance and its projects. 
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, establish the agenda for each
Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed to Board members in advance
of the meeting. As a general rule, presentations on specific subjects are sent to the
Board in advance so that Board meeting time is used for focused discussion.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company holds briefing meetings with its major institutional shareholders usually
twice each year after the interim and preliminary results announcements to ensure 
that the investing community receives a balanced and complete view of the Group's
performance and the issues faced by the business. 
The principal communications with private investors are the provision of the Annual
Report & Accounts, the Interim Statement and the Annual General Meeting, an occasion
which is attended by all the Company directors and at which shareholders are given the
opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board. In addition, information concerning
the company's financial performance and its products are given on the company's
website, www.bpipoly.com.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of agreeing to the appointment 
of its own members and for nominating them for election by the shareholders on first
appointment and thereafter at three yearly intervals. The Nominations Committee
comprising a majority of non executive directors has the responsibility for making
recommendations for new appointments to the Board. The Deputy Chairman, Professor
Neil Hood, chairs the Committee and the other members are identified on page 18. 
51335 BPI  24/4/03  2:58 pm  Page 26 BPI REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee which is chaired by John Houston, comprises all the non executive
directors, and meets at least three times a year. The Audit Committee is charged by the
Board with: monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of internal control,
reviewing the scope and reporting of both external and internal auditors, and reviewing
the annual and interim financial statements before submission to the Board. The external
auditors and internal auditor attend all appropriate meetings. While the Chairman and
Finance Director attend the meetings, the external auditors are given the opportunity 
to speak confidentially to the non executive directors. The agenda, minutes and papers
of all meetings are circulated to each director. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
is available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Professor Neil Hood. It consists of the 
non executive directors and is responsible for advising the Board on the remuneration 
of executive directors. The Chairman of the Committee is available to answer questions
at the Annual General Meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors acknowledge that it is responsible for the Group's systems 
of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness . The Board has established 
a control structure designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives. Internal controls can only provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. Throughout the year the
Board has complied with principle D.2 of the Combined Code by operating a process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces. The Board,
through the Audit Committee, regularly reviews the process which has been in place
throughout the year and to the date of approval of this report.
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal
control in compliance with Provision D.2.1 of the Combined Code include the following:
During the year the Audit Committee of the Board:
 reviews the external and internal audit work plans.
 receives and reviews half yearly risk management reports and risk tables. Business
and Group management operate a risk management process which identifies the key
risks facing each business and the Group and reports via internal audit as to how
those risks are being managed. This is based on Business and Group risk tables
identifying the key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the estimated
potential impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks.
 receives and considers reports from management and internal audit on the system 
of internal control and any significant control weaknesses. The Audit Committee also
receives reports from the external auditors who consider controls only to the extent
necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
 discusses with management the actions taken on control weaknesses identified in
internal and external audit reports.
 receives and reviews the annual Combined Code internal control report from internal
audit. This is based on a combination of risk management reporting and the completion
by each business of key control questionnaires which confirm the extent to which 
the business complies with the Group control procedures. Each business Managing
Director and Finance Director sign off a declaration confirming that they have reviewed
the business risk table and control questionnaires and confirming compliance with
statutory obligations.
 reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board which receives
copies of all Audit Committee papers and minutes.
Each business operates with annual budgets which are approved by the Board. Actual
results are reported every month and compared with budgets and previous year data. 
Operating and financial controls and procedures, which all operating units are required
to follow, are detailed in a financial procedures manual which includes appropriate
authorisation limits.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE
The Group has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 with the code
provisions set out in Sections 1 and 2 of the Combined Code. 
51335 BPI  24/4/03  2:58 pm  Page 27