 16
Corporate governance
1. The board continues to support the highest levels of
corporate governance. The combined code (the
code ) as issued by the committee on corporate
governance in June 1998 was appended to the Listing
Rules of the London Stock Exchange in January 1999.
Details of how the company has applied the
principles of good governance set out in the code are
set out below.
2. DIRECTORS 
The board leads and controls the company.
2.1 The board of directors currently comprises a
non-executive chairman, an executive deputy
chairman, six non-executive directors and two
executive directors. Dr CH Wiese and Mr C
Moore are also executive directors of Tradehold
Limited, the company's ultimate principal
shareholder, while Mr A Monro has an
arrangement with Tradehold Limited and hence
these three directors are not regarded as
independent for the purposes of the code's
provisions. Messrs JBH Jackson, ERC Chovil and
SA Silcock are considered to be independent of
management and any relationship, business or
otherwise, which could materially interfere with
the exercising of independent judgement. Mr JBH
Jackson is considered to be the senior
independent non-executive director. All of the
non-executive directors have a breadth of
successful commercial and professional
experience.
2.2 The board meets for regular business four times
a year and where necessary, for any additional
matters arising between board meetings. It has
agreed a schedule of matters which require full
board discussion and approval. Detailed
management accounts, budgets, forecasts and
executive reports are submitted to all directors in
the week before a board meeting allowing them
sufficient review time.This allows them to bring
an independent judgement to bear on issues such
as strategy, performance and standards of
conduct. The executive directors meet senior
managers formally on a regular basis, and are
closely involved in all major business decisions and
important areas of internal control.
2.3 All directors have access to the advice and
services of the company secretary and the board
has established a procedure whereby any
director, wishing to do so in furtherance of his
duties, may take independent professional advice
at the company's expense.
2.4 All members of the board are subject to the re-
election provisions of the articles, which require a
third of the board to offer themselves for re-
election at each annual general meeting.
3. BOARD COMMITTEES
3.1 The board has appointed three committees:
audit, remuneration and nomination, each with a
formal constitution.
3.2 Directors' remuneration committee
The remuneration committee consists of three
non-executive directors, Dr CH Wiese
(chairman), Mr JBH Jackson and Mr ERC Chovil.
The committee makes recommendations to the
board on remuneration policy and determines,
on behalf of the board, specific remuneration
packages for the executive directors and senior
management. The report of the remuneration
committee is contained on pages 10 to 14.
The remuneration committee meets at least
twice a year and at other times as necessary.
3.3 Directors' nomination committee
The nomination committee consists of the three
non-executive directors, Dr CH Wiese
(chairman), Mr JBH Jackson and Mr ERC Chovil.
The nomination committee convenes on request
of the chairman if and when non-executive
directors are recruited. Since the date of the last
annual report the committee has been convened
once.
3.4 The audit committee
The audit committee, established some years
ago with a formal constitution, currently
comprises three non-executive directors.
The audit committee is chaired by Mr C Moore
with Mr ERC Chovil and Mr SA Silcock, the
other members. The committee meets four
times a year and forms an important part of
the group's control framework. The committee
regularly reviews the adequacy of internal
controls, accounting policies and financial
reporting as well as reviewing the interim
and annual results. Meetings are attended by
the chief executive, group finance director,
senior financial management and the external
auditors. Corporate governance
17
4. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
The company's annual report includes a chairman's
statement and an operating and financial review,
which together provide a detailed review of its
financial results and position.These are regarded as
providing a balanced assessment of the company's
position and prospects.
The report of the directors contains a statement
of directors' responsibilities (page 20), whilst a
statement on going concern and the directors' review
of internal control are set out in subsequent
paragraphs.
The group does not currently have a separate
internal audit function but the need for one is
periodically considered by the audit committee.
5. INTERNAL CONTROL
The board is ultimately responsible for the group's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. However, such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The code principle D2.1 on internal control
introduced a requirement that the directors conduct,
at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the
group's system of internal control, including financial,
operational, compliance and risk management
controls.
Guidance for directors, internal control: guidance for
directors on the combined code (the Turnbull
Guidance ) was published in September 1999. The
board has put in place an organisational structure and
framework of controls to comply fully with the
Turnbull Guidance throughout the year. On behalf of
the board, the audit committee has reviewed the
effectiveness of the internal control procedures, with
all significant findings or identified risks considered in
detail and appropriate action taken.
The principal elements of the group's internal control
systems include:
  A comprehensive annual budgeting system,
integrating both financial and operational budgets
with formal identification and assessment of
business and financial risks inherent in each
operating area. These budgets are subject to
approval by the board.
  Regular consideration by the board of actual results
compared with budgets and forecasts and
monitoring of capital expenditure programmes.
Preparation of revised forecasts on a regular basis.
  Quarterly confirmation to the board of any
changes in business, operational, compliance or
financial risk by local management in each operating
area.
  Clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital
and other areas of expenditure, established by the
board.
  A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved
to the board for decision.
  Authority levels delegated to the boards of each
subsidiary.
6. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company encourages regular dialogue with its
institutional shareholders and with private investors
at the annual general meeting. Update meetings are
held with institutional shareholders following the
announcement of the interim and preliminary results
and as requested throughout the year. Directors are
accessible to all shareholders and will, where
appropriate, welcome discussions with and respond
to enquiries from them.
7. GOING CONCERN
After making appropriate inquiries, the directors have
a reasonable expectation that the group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
8. COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
At a board meeting held on 29 August 2002, the
board adopted a paper reviewing compliance with
the provisions of the code.
The provisions of the code which have not been
complied with throughout the period under review,
were:
A.3.2 While the board considers all non-executive
directors to be independent of management 18
Corporate governance
and free from any materially conflicting business
relationship, only Mr JBH Jackson and
Mr SA Silcock (who served throughout the
period) and Mr ERC Chovil (since 13 February
2002) are independent under the provisions of
the code.
A.6.1 The non-executive directors are not appointed
for specific terms, although they, in common
with the executive directors, are required to
retire and seek re-election at least every
3years.
B.1.9 The service contracts of the executive directors
do not provide explicitly for compensation
commitments in the event of early termination.
B.2.2 The remuneration committee, while
independent of management, does not
currently consist exclusively of non-executive
directors who are independent under the
provisions of the code.
D.3.1 The audit committee, while independent of
management, did not consist for the full year of
a majority of independent non-executive
directors who are independent under the
provisions of the code.This arose following the
resignation of Mr GJM McLeod on
15 November 2001 and was rectified on
13 February 2002 when another independent
non-executive director, Mr ERC Chovil, was
appointed.
The circumstances surrounding the loss for the year
ended 6 July 2002, and the corrective actions taken, have
been considered at length by the board, and are fully
disclosed in the Operating and financial review.
Other than as disclosed above, throughout the period
ended 6 July 2002, the company has been in compliance
with the code.
By order of the board
H Roelofse
Company secretary
29 August 2002