 Corporate Governance
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose
how they comply with the principles of good governance and code of best
practice known as the Combined Code. During 2003 the Combined Code,
originally adopted in 1998, was revised and the Company is required to comply
with the revised Code from 1 April 2004.  Prior to that, including the period
covered by this Annual Report, the Company was required to comply with the
1998 Code and this statement, which incorporates the statement on corporate
social responsibility, explains how the Company has applied the principles of
good governance set out in Section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code.
The Board
During the year Business Post maintained an equal balance of executive and non
executive directors. Biographical details of all directors, including those of Philip
Stephens, who was appointed on 1 April 2004, are set out in the Directors and
Advisers statement. Of the five non-executive directors who served during the
year, two are judged to be independent according to the guidelines set out by the
Association of British Insurers; the other three are not judged to be independent
due either to their shareholdings or their remuneration arrangements. All the non-
executive directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board
and its committees, and no one individual or group dominates the Board's
decision-making process.
Although the Combined Code recommends that a majority of non-executive
directors should be independent, the Board believes that it has maintained an
appropriate balance of directors, bringing a wide range of skills and experience
to the Board.
All directors are required by the Company's Articles of Association to submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years. The names of those
directors standing for re-election to the Board this year are set out in the Notice
of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board's focus is on strategy formulation, policy and control. There is a formal
schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board which retains all major
operational and risk management decisions with the Board.  These include the
approval of major items of expenditure or commitment, including acquisitions;
major operational projects, including new contract wins; financing, including
lease/buy decisions and the use of derivatives and insurance; and changes in
policy relating to the franchise network. The Board routinely monitors the various
financial, operational and commercial risks facing the Company through reports
from management. 
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board, and the Chief
Executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy
and policy. The Board meets formally at least 9 times a year, with other meetings
as necessary. The Board receives reports in advance of each meeting from the
Chief Executive and Finance Director addressing the financial performance of the
Company and developments since the previous meeting, with further reports on
particular issues as appropriate. All directors have access to the advice and
services of the company secretary, and there is a procedure whereby directors,
wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent
professional advice at the Company's expense. In addition, detailed reports are
provided to the Board on a monthly basis to enable the Board to discharge its
duties.
The Board has a number of committees, the principal ones being the audit,
remuneration and nomination committees. Each of these committees operates
within written terms of reference. During the year the audit committee comprised
Dennis Clark, chairman and senior independent non-executive director, Richard
Saville, the other independent non-executive director, and Peter Kane, the non-
executive Chairman. Philip Stephens, who is an independent non-executive
director, joined the audit committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 April
2004, and Richard Saville will retire on 31 May 2004. The committee's duties
include the review of the half year and annual financial statements, including
significant financial reporting judgements contained in them, before submission
to the Board; the review of the Company's internal financial control system
through reports from management and internal and external auditors; and the
review of the scope and effectiveness of the Company' s internal audit function. It
is also responsible for the selection of the external auditors, the assessment of
the scope and results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness, and the
independence and objectivity of the external auditors. Details of the
remuneration committee are set out in the Remuneration Report. During the year
the nomination committee comprised Peter Kane, the non-executive Chairman
and chairman of the committee, Paul Carvell, Chief Executive, and Dennis Clark
and Bill Cockburn, both of whom are non-executive directors. Philip Stephens
joined the nomination committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 April
2004. The committee makes recommendations to the Board of new Board
appointments, whether executive or non-executive. Approval of all appointments
is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Directors' Remuneration
Details of directors' remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors
while carefully recognising statutory constraints concerning the disclosure of
information. Two-way communication with institutional investors, analysts and
private investors is actively pursued, and a series of presentations and meetings
are held through the year. Feedback from these meetings is collated by the
Company's advisers and circulated to the Board to keep them informed
concerning the views of shareholders.
18   Business Post Group plc Corporate Governance
Report & Accounts 19
This year's Annual General Meeting will be held on 13 July 2004 at which time
the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be
available to answer shareholder questions. The Company will continue its
practice of proposing individual resolutions, including separate resolutions
relating to the Directors' Report and Accounts and the Remuneration Report. 
Accountability and Directors' Responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group
and of the profit of the Group for that period. 
After making due enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the accounts. 
In preparing the accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting
policies and then apply them consistently; make judgements and estimates that
are reasonable and prudent; and state whether applicable accounting standards
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the accounts. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with
the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets
of the Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Business Post Group plc website is the
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of those matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements
since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Internal Controls
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group
maintains a system of internal control to provide it with reasonable assurance
regarding effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and
compliance with laws and regulations. There are inherent limitations in any
system of internal control and, accordingly, even the most effective system can
provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance.
The Turnbull report issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales in September 1999 provided further guidance as to how the Combined
Code principle on internal control should be applied in practice. 
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the Turnbull report
throughout the year. There is a formal ongoing process for identifying, managing
and reviewing any changes in the risks faced by the Company. This process
operates under the direction of, and is regularly reviewed by, the Board.
The key features of the internal control system within the Group are:
  clearly defined delegation of responsibilities, including relevant
authorisation levels,
  clearly documented internal procedures set out in operational and
administration manuals,
  regular compliance audit visits to all owned and franchised locations which
monitor compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of financial
information,
  review of financial procedures by the internal auditor,
  close personal involvement of executive directors in monitoring and
managing the main risk areas of the business,
  regular information provided to senior management, covering financial
performance and key business indicators, and
  monthly monitoring of results against budget and forecast, with major
variances being followed up and management action taken where necessary.
Details of the Group's activities in relation to its environmental, employment and
health and safety responsibilities are set out in the Corporate Social
Responsibility statement.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems during
the period covered by the accounts and up to the date of the approval of the
accounts. This review covered all controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management. The business has grown significantly
during recent years and this has put increased strain on the Company's financial
systems. During the year certain weaknesses in procedures and financial control
were identified. These have been addressed and controls have been
strengthened by the recruitment of an internal auditor and additional financial
staff, and the introduction of enhanced internal controls.
Compliance with the Combined Code
With the exception of the number of non-executive directors judged to be
independent, the Board considers that the Company has complied with the
provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code 1998 throughout the financial year.