 Overview 02
Strategy 20
Review of 2011  32
Markets and risks 47
Responsibility and relationships 58
Governance 70
Financial statements 103
bwin.party 
Annual report & accounts 2011
75
Governance
Audit Committee 
Report
  Founder shareholders of both bwin and PartyGaming (holding 
in aggregate 22% of bwin.party's share capital) have Board 
representatives which facilitates a productive dialogue with 
these investors
  Maintaining good communications with the investment analyst 
community so that there exists a portfolio of research on the 
business. This also allows the Company to understand how 
it is being perceived by the investor community generally
E. Audit Committee Report
Purpose
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent 
arrangements for considering how it should apply the required financial 
reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an 
appropriate relationship with the Company's joint auditors, BDO LLP 
and BDO Limited. 
Membership
The Board has done this by appointing an Audit Committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee are:
  Helmut Kern (Chairman)
  Tim Bristow
   Rod Perry
Helmut Kern has recent and relevant financial experience and was 
appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 31 March 2011. 
From 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2011 Lewis Moonie chaired the Audit 
Committee and Tim Bristow was regarded as the member with relevant 
financial experience. 
The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent directors 
should serve on the Audit Committee. From 1 January 2011 to 31 March 
2011 the Company was not compliant with this recommendation, 
because there were only two independent Directors serving on the 
Board. Since 31 March 2011 the Audit Committee has complied with 
the Code in having three independent Directors. 
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee has adopted terms of reference, approved by 
the Board that are available on the Company's website: http://www.
bwinparty.com/AboutUs/CorporateGovernance/AuditCommittee.aspx. 
In summary the main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:
  Consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the 
appointment of the head of the internal audit function and also the 
external auditors as well as the re-appointment of the latter;
  Recommend the audit fee to the Board and develop and recommend 
to the Board bwin.party's policy in relation to the provision of non-
audit services by the external auditor;
  Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of bwin.party and 
any formal announcements relating to the Company's financial 
performance and to review, and challenge where necessary, the 
actions and judgements of management in relation to the half-year 
and annual financial statements before submission to the Board;
  Meet with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to 
discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising from 
the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss (in the 
absence of management, where appropriate);
  Make recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, 
new or amended accounting policy;
  Monitor and review the internal audit programme and its 
effectiveness; 
  Ensure co-ordination between the officers responsible for internal 
audit and the external auditors, and that the internal audit function 
is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within  
bwin.party;
  Consider any major audit recommendations and the major findings 
of internal investigations and management's response (in the 
absence of management, where appropriate); 
  Monitor and review bwin.party's systems for internal control, 
financial reporting and risk management; and
  Reviewing the individual internal audit reports covering various areas 
and activities of the business
Business during the year
During the year to 31 December 2011, the Audit Committee met five 
times to review and consider the following items of business:
February: 
- 2010 Annual report 
- The external auditors' report and the required letter of representation 
from the Company
- The non-audit services provided by the external auditors
- The re-appointment of the external auditors at the 2011 AGM
- The internal audit status report
April:
- The external audit process post-merger
- The internal audit and risk management functions post-merger
June: 
- External auditors' management letters
- The external auditors' 2011 planning report and engagement letter 
- The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
- Latest internal audit status report
- Internal audit charter
- Risk management status report
August:
- External auditors' half year review relating to the 2011 half year 
results and the required letter of representation from bwin.party
- Review of the 2011 half year results
- The Company's functional currency
- The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
- Latest internal audit status report
- Five-year internal audit plan and universe
- Update for treasury management policy and currency risk review bwin.party 
Annual report & accounts 2011
76
Governance  
Audit Committee 
Report
December:
- Group risk register
- Latest internal audit status report and ongoing projects
- Follow-up in respect of the management letter arising from the 
last audit
- Updated code of conduct and whistle-blowing policy
- Updated report from the external auditors on their plans for auditing 
the 2011 annual financial results
- The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
- Company balance sheet restructuring
At these meetings, members met with management and with the 
internal and external auditors. The Audit Committee members also met 
privately with the external auditors and separately with the internal 
audit function, without management representatives present. 
Through these meetings and review process the Audit Committee has 
satisfied itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems 
remain in place to identify and contain business risks and that the 
integrity of the Company's financial reporting is sound. In doing so the 
Audit Committee continues to exercise its authority to seek any 
information it requires from any employee of the Company.
In 2012, the Audit Committee has met once to review and recommend 
the approval of the 2011 full year results and the 2011 Annual Report.
Risk management and effective internal controls
The section,  Key risks' on pages 55 to 57 of the Annual report sets out the 
main risks impacting the Group's business.
bwin.party maintains a robust system of internal control for the purpose 
of safeguarding the investment of shareholders in the Company and the 
Group's assets. At least annually the Board conducts a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls, covering all 
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems. bwin.party's system of internal 
control reduces the probability that business risks might impede the 
Company in achieving its objectives, but it cannot eliminate these risks 
and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has an internal audit department, which also carries out the 
Company's risk management monitoring. During the year, management 
identified the risks attaching to the business and, on an ongoing basis, 
efforts are being taken to mitigate these risks. Throughout the year 
bwin.party's internal auditors performed internal audits of offices and 
departments within the business to assess whether adequate internal 
controls are in place to protect the Group, its employees and 
shareholders. The internal audit reports are presented to the Audit 
Committee and the Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit 
Committee as well as Chairman of the Audit Committee, to whom he has 
direct access.
In accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report, the 
Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has completed its 
annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, 
and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
The Group continues to adopt and publicise a formal  whistleblowing' 
procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in financial or other matters. This procedure is set 
out in the Group's employee handbooks and has been reviewed by the 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is satisfied that arrangements 
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such 
matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
External Auditors
During the year ended 31 December 2011, BDO LLP was appointed under 
an engagement letter to act as auditors to enable the Company to meet 
its obligations to prepare financial statements in accordance with the 
Listing Rules. For the purposes of filing the Company's financial 
statements in Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been appointed 
to act as joint auditors to allow an audit report to be issued under 
section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Act 1999.
In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee made 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external 
auditors, approved their remuneration (both subject to Shareholder 
approval) and also approved their terms of engagement. The Audit 
Committee has also established a policy regarding the appointment of 
auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group and will keep this 
under continual review. This policy dictates that in the Company's 
financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence for 
acquisitions and other specific matters noted below, should not 
exceed the total fees for audit services they provide. In the year 
ended 31 December 2011, the proportion of total non-audit fees 
to total audit fees paid to the external auditors was 0.09:1.0.
In addition to their statutory duties, BDO LLP is also employed where, 
as a result of their position as auditors or for their specific expertise, 
they either must, or the Audit Committee accepts they are best placed 
to, perform the work in question. This is primarily work in relation to 
matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory 
filings and certain business acquisitions and disposals. In such 
circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review the specific 
service requirements and consider any impact on objectivity and 
independence of the auditors and any appropriate safeguards to this. 
As such the Audit Committee believes it appropriate for these non-audit 
services to be excluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above. In the year 
ended 31 December 2011 the total fees paid to the external auditors 
in respect of due diligence for acquisitions was  0.17 million.
Helmut Kern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
29 March 2012