 12
Principles of Corporate Governance 
 
The Company's Board appreciates the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of 
accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.  It believes 
that corporate governance involves more than a simple box ticking  approach to establish whether a 
company has met the requirements of a number of specific rules and regulations.  Rather the issue is one of 
applying corporate governance principles (including those set out in the Corporate Governance Guidelines 
for AIM companies published by the Quoted Companies' Alliance in July 2005 and updated in February 
2007) in a sensible and pragmatic fashion having regard to the individual circumstances of a particular 
company's business.  The key objective is to enhance and protect shareholder value. 
 
Board Structure 
 
During the year the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other Executive 
Directors (one of whom was appointed on 1 December 2006) and one other Director.  Their biographies 
appear on page 15.   
 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. The Board is aware of 
the need for independence amongst its Non-Executive Directors and, given that Ian Mainman (one of the 
two Directors appointed as Non-Executive) has been utilising his commercial negotiating skills to the benefit 
of the Group in its formative period for which he has received the fees detailed in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report, the Board is actively searching for one quality independent non-executive director to 
strengthen the Board. The Board expects to make an appropriate announcement prior to the issue of its next 
interim results. 
 
A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 16.  The Non-
Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive 
Directors are fully considered.  To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors have full and timely 
access to all relevant information and there is a procedure for all Directors, in furtherance of their duties, to 
take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Group.  The Board has a formal 
schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at least quarterly in person and monthly by conference call.  It 
is responsible for overall group strategy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of 
significant financing matters.  During the year all directors have attended all meetings which they were 
eligible to attend. 
 
There is no Nomination Committee because the size of the Board does not warrant a separate committee.  
The Board, as stated above, regularly reviews its balance and structure and is actively seeking one new 
independent non-executive director.  All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years. 
 
At this stage of the Group's development there are no formal systems of appraisal of Board members.  When 
the Group's size and resources justify it, such appraisal systems will be implemented. 
 
The following committees, which have written terms of reference, deal with specific aspects of the Group's 
affairs. 
 
  The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the 
Company's framework of Executive remuneration and its cost.  The Committee determines the contract 
terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including performance 
related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.  The Board itself determines the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.  The committee comprises the Chairman and Ian 
Mainman.  It is chaired by the Chairman.  The report on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 10 
to 11. 
 
  The Audit Committee comprises the Chairman and its chair, Ian Mainman.  Its prime tasks are to review 
the scope of internal and external audit, to receive regular reports from Baker Tilly, and to review the 
half-yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on 
accounting policies and areas of management judgment and estimation.  The committee is responsible 
for monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the 
shareholders. The committee acts as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and contributes to 
the Board's review of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control and risk management systems 
Corporate Governance 13
and processes.  The committee has considered the need for an internal audit function and has 
concluded that, at the present time, no such function is necessary. This will be reviewed on a regular 
basis. It advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration for both 
audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors.  
 
The committee, which meets at least three times per year, provides a forum for reporting by the Group's 
external auditors.  Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Directors. 
 
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year 
which includes: 
o a review of the non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees; 
o discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and 
any other parties that could affect independence or the perception of independence; 
o a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and 
partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and 
o obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgment, they are 
independent. 
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit 
services during the year is set out in Note 3 to the financial statements. 
 
Internal Control 
 
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. 
 
The Board has designed the Group's system of internal control in order to provide the directors with 
reasonable assurance that its assets are safeguarded, that transactions are authorised and properly 
recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely 
period.  However, no system of internal control can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives or provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.  
 
The key elements of the control system in operation are: 
  The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in 
place an organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility defined and with appropriate delegation 
of authority; 
  There are established procedures for planning, approval and monitoring of capital expenditure and 
information systems for monitoring the Group's financial performance against approved budgets and 
forecasts; 
 
The departmental heads are required annually to undertake a full assessment process to identify and 
quantify the risks that face their businesses and functions, and assess the adequacy of the prevention, 
monitoring and modification practices in place for those risks.  In addition, regular reports about significant 
risks and associated control and monitoring procedures are made to the Executive Committee.  They are 
responsible for reviewing the risk assessment for completeness and accuracy.  The consolidated results of 
these reviews are reported to the Board to enable the directors to review the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control.  The process adopted by the Group accords with the guidance contained in the document 
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  issued by the ICAEW. 
 
The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors on a regular basis and from executive 
directors of the Group.  During the period, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control as described above.  The Board receives periodic reports from all committees 
 
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 
2007 and up to the date of approval of the report and financial statements that have required the Board to 
deal with any related material internal control issues. 
 
described during the period. 
 
The Directors confirm that the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control as  14
Relations with Shareholders 
 
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.  Effective two-way 
communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is actively pursued and this 
encompasses issues such as performance, policy and strategy.  During the period the directors had 
meetings with institutional investors whose combined shareholdings represented over 30% of the total 
issued share capital of the Company. 
 
Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairman 
presents a review of the results and comments on current business activity.  The Chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any shareholder 
questions. 
 
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 July 2007.  The notice of the Annual General Meeting may 
be found in the accompanying separate document. 
 
Going Concern 
 
The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
David McRobbie 
Chief Executive 
 
 
 
28 June 2007 
 
 
continued Corporate Governance