 Byotrol plc
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
13
Principles of Corporate Governance
The Company's Board appreciates the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of
accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity. It believes
that corporate governance involves more than a simple box ticking  approach to establish whether a
company has met the requirements of a number of specific rules and regulations. Rather the issue is one of
applying corporate governance principles (including those set out in the Corporate Governance Guidelines
for AIM companies published by the Quoted Companies' Alliance in July 2005 and updated in February
2008) in a sensible and pragmatic fashion having regard to the individual circumstances of a particular
company's business. The key objective is to enhance and protect shareholder value.
Board Structure
During the year the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other
Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Director and one other Director (until his resignation on 21
November 2008). Since the year end the Non-Executive Chairman has resigned and been replaced, pro
tem, by the Deputy Chairman and two additional Non-Executive Directors have been appointed. On 16
June 2009, one of the new Non- Executive Directors was appointed Chairman. The biographies of all
serving directors appear on page 17 and 18.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. The Board is aware of
the need for independence amongst its Non-Executive Directors and is confident that, with the new
appointments, it will have sufficient independence amongst its Non-Executive Directors.
A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 19. The Non-
Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive
Directors are fully considered. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors have full and
timely access to all relevant information and there is a procedure for all directors, in furtherance of their
duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Group. The Board has a
formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at least quarterly in person and monthly by conference
call.  It is responsible for overall Group strategy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and
consideration of significant financing matters. During the year all directors have attended all meetings
which they were eligible to attend.
There was no Nomination Committee during the year because the size of the Board did not warrant a
separate committee. The Board, as stated above, regularly reviews its balance and structure and decided at
its meeting on 11 May 2009 to set up a Nomination Committee comprising Till Medinger, Adrian Smith
and Richard Bell. The committee's first tasks are to formulate its terms of reference and to identify a new
Non-Executive Chairman. All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
At this stage of the Group's development there are no formal systems of appraisal of Board members.
When the Group's size and resources justify it, such appraisal systems will be implemented.
The following committees, which have written terms of reference, deal with specific aspects of the Group's
affairs.
  The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the
Company's framework of Executive remuneration and its cost. The Committee determines the
contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including
performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The Board itself
determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. During the year the Committee
comprised Adrian Smith (Chairman), Wesley Devoto and, until his resignation, Ian Mainman. Since
11 May 2009 it is comprised of Ralph Kugler (Chairman), Till Medinger and Adrian Smith. The report
on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 11 to 13.
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
14 ANNuAl REpORT 2009    Byotrol plc
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
14
  The Audit Committee's prime tasks are to review the scope of internal and external audit, to receive
regular reports from Baker Tilly, and to review the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are
presented to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and areas of management
judgment and estimation. The Committee is responsible for monitoring the controls which are in force
to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The Committee acts as a forum
for discussion of internal control issues and contributes to the Board's review of the effectiveness of
the Company's internal control and risk management systems and processes. The Committee has
considered the need for an internal audit function and has concluded that, at the present time, no such
function is necessary. This will be reviewed on a regular basis. It advises the Board on the appointment
of external auditors and on their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work, and discusses the
nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors.
The Committee, which meets at least three times per year, provides a forum for reporting by the
Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year
which includes:
 a review of the non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees;
 discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and
any other parties that could affect independence or the perception of independence;
 a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and
partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
 obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgment, they are
independent.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services
during the year is set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised Ian Mainman (Chairman until his resignation), Adrian
Smith (Chairman from 21 November 2008) and Wesley Devoto. Since 11 May 2009 the Committee
members are Adrian Smith (Chairman), Ralph Kugler and Till Medinger.
Internal Control
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has designed the Group's system of internal control in order to provide the directors with
reasonable assurance that its assets are safeguarded, that transactions are authorised and properly recorded
and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
However, no system of internal control can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives or
provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the control system in operation are:
  The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in
place an organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility defined and with appropriate
delegation of authority;
  There are established procedures for planning, approval and monitoring of capital expenditure and
information systems for monitoring the Group's financial performance against approved budgets and
forecasts;
The departmental heads are required annually to undertake a full assessment process to identify and
quantify the risks that face their businesses and functions, and assess the adequacy of the prevention,
monitoring and modification practices in place for those risks. In addition, regular reports about significant
risks and associated control and monitoring procedures are made to the Executive Committee. They are
responsible for reviewing the risk assessment for completeness and accuracy. The consolidated results of
these reviews are reported to the Board to enable the directors to review the effectiveness of the system of
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
15 ANNuAl REpORT 2009    Byotrol plc
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
15
internal control. The process adopted by the Group accords with the guidance contained in the document
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  issued by the ICAEW.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors on a regular basis and from Executive
Directors of the Group. During the period, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of internal control as described above. The Board receives periodic reports from all committees.
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March
2009 and up to the date of approval of the report and financial statements that have required the Board to
deal with any related material internal control issues.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors. Effective two-way
communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is actively pursued and this
encompasses issues such as performance, policy and strategy. During the period the directors had
meetings with institutional investors whose combined shareholdings represented over 60% of the total
issued share capital of the Company.
Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairman
presents a review of the results and comments on current business activity. The Chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any shareholder
questions.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 July 2009. The notice of the Annual General Meeting may
be found in the accompanying separate document.
Going Concern
The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to
continue in business for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
David McRobbie
Chief Executive
7 July 2009
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE
16 ANNuAl REpORT 2009   