 Cable & Wireless Communications 43 Annual report 2009/10
Governance
Corporate governance report
Our Board is responsible for the Group's system of corporate 
governance and is committed to maintaining high standards. 
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement the system of corporate 
governance was ultimately the responsibility of the Board of 
Cable and Wireless plc. Subsequent to the Scheme of 
Arrangement it became the responsibility of the Board of 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc. The Board confirms 
that the Group has complied with all provisions set out in  
Section One of the Combined Code (the Code) during the  
period under review. 
In preparation for the Company's listing following the Scheme of 
Arrangement, and the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
business, a full review of corporate governance arrangements 
was undertaken. These arrangements were summarised in the 
prospectus relating to the Company's listing published on 
2 February 2010 (the Prospectus). 
Going forward, Cable & Wireless Communications intends to comply 
fully with the main and supporting principles of the Code except in 
relation to the following requirement.
  A.7.1 of the Code provides that all Directors should be subject 
to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting 
after their appointment. The Articles provide that, at the first 
two Annual General Meetings following the demerger, one third 
of the Directors shall retire from office but shall be eligible for 
re-appointment. This provision was included in the Articles as 
a result of the demerger to provide an even spread of Director 
re-appointments and hence not all Directors are standing for 
re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council's website 
www.frc.org.uk
Our key policies and practices are set out in this governance report 
as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on page 45 and 
Remuneration Committee on pages 46 to 58. Furthermore, our 
Independent Non-executive Directors have prepared a report 
describing the corporate governance and behaviours of the Board  
on page 42. Together, these reports provide shareholders with an 
insight into how our Board and senior management run the business 
to increase shareholder value.
Board composition and attendance
Our Board comprises the Chairman, four Executive Directors and 
four Non-executive Directors, including the Senior Independent 
Director. Biographies of the Directors, including details of their 
Committee memberships, are shown on pages 36 and 37.
The Board considers the Company's Non-executive Directors 
to be independent in character and judgement. Collectively, our 
Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and business 
experience to the Company as they all occupy or have occupied 
senior positions in industry and public life and, as such, each 
contributes significant weight to Board decisions.
The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year 
term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three 
year term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive 
Directors, together with service contracts for Executive Directors, 
are available for inspection by shareholders at our registered office 
during normal business hours and at our AGM.
Post demerger, the Board held one scheduled meeting. Details of 
Directors' attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings 
are shown in the following table.
Board meeting attendance
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc
Period covered: 19 March 2010 - 31 March 2010
  Audit Remuneration  Nominations
 Board  Committee  Committee  Committee
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne  1/1 - - 0/0
Executive Directors
George Battersby 1/1 - - -
Nick Cooper 1/1 - - -
Tim Pennington 1/1 - - -
Tony Rice  1/1 - - -
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 1/1 1/1 1/1 0/0
Mary Francis 1/1 1/1 1/1 0/0
Kate Nealon 1/1 1/1 1/1 0/0
Kasper Rorsted 0/1 1/1 1/1 0/0
- Director is not a Committee member. 
Role of the Board
The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications sets the strategic 
aims of the Group and is collectively responsible for matters of 
strategy, performance, resources, standards of conduct and 
accountability.
Matters reserved for the Board include: Group strategy; corporate 
governance; financial reporting and control; budgets and operating 
plans; acquisitions and disposals; appointments to the Board, 
Committees and some senior executive positions; Director and 
senior executive remuneration; delegation of authority; and 
customer contracts and expenditure over a certain financial limit. 
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Committees, 
each with clearly defined terms of reference.
Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms 
of reference of its Committees can be found on our website at  
www.cwc.com
The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and 
Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board meetings and full and 
timely information is provided to all Board and Committee members 
prior to meetings. Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board 
and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each 
Director as appropriate. If a Director objects to a particular 
proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting. 
During the period from incorporation to 31 March 2010, as for 
previous years, there were no such objections. Similarly, in the 
period prior to demerger, there were no such objections to proposals 
put to the Cable and Wireless plc Board.
Separate schedules of reserved matters have been adopted by 
the Board. 44
Corporate governance report
The Senior Independent Director
Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director of the Company. Prior 
to demerger Clive Butler was the Senior Independent Director for 
Cable and Wireless plc. The Senior Independent Director is available 
to meet shareholders on request and is the designated point of 
contact for shareholders to raise any concerns where contact 
through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive Directors 
is inappropriate.
As part of our ongoing commitment to regular dialogue with our 
investors, the Senior Independent Director prior to demerger, along 
with the Chairman, attended several meetings with investment and 
corporate governance managers. The Company intends to continue 
this practice. 
Committees of the Board
Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is 
composed entirely of Non-executive Directors. The reports of the 
Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 
45 and 46 to 58 respectively.
The Chair of the Nominations Committee is Sir Richard Lapthorne. 
This Committee did not meet in the period 19 March 2010 to 
31 March 2010. The Nominations Committee is principally 
responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board, including 
the range and experience of its members, its structure and its size, 
as well as succession planning. 
The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are 
available at www.cwc.com
Formal procedures are in place for the nomination, selection, 
training and evaluation of Directors as well as succession planning. In 
accordance with these procedures, and with the advice of external 
recruitment consultants, the following changes to the Cable and 
Wireless plc Board were made at the recommendation of the 
Nominations Committee:
  Mary Francis and Penny Hughes were appointed as Non-executive 
Directors on 1 July 2009; and
  Jim Marsh was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 January 
2010.
On 25 January 2010, Sir Richard Lapthorne, George Battersby, 
Nick Cooper, Tim Pennington, Tony Rice, Simon Ball, Mary Francis, 
Kate Nealon and Kasper Rorsted were appointed to the Board of 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
Prior to demerger the Cable and Wireless plc Nominations 
Committee, chaired by Clive Butler (Senior Independent Director), 
met on four occasions during the year to review the composition of 
the Board, including the range and experience of its members, its 
structure and its size. In view of the demerger, the Nominations 
Committee of Cable and Wireless plc discussed and agreed the 
composition of the Company's Board.
Induction and professional development
The induction of new Board members is undertaken by the Company 
Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who retains responsibility 
for the induction process. It includes meetings with senior 
management and meetings with major shareholders may be 
arranged on request.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as 
well as appropriate training and briefings. Additionally, any Director 
may take independent professional advice on any matter at the 
Company's expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Performance Evaluation 
The Chairman led an in-house performance evaluation of the Board 
of Cable and Wireless plc in the form of a detailed questionnaire in 
May 2009. The findings were collated by the Company Secretary 
and presented to the entire Board of Cable and Wireless plc for 
consideration. In the period to demerger, the Non-executive 
Directors again met privately, both with and without the Chairman 
present, to consider management performance and succession 
issues. The Non-executive Directors of Cable and Wireless plc also 
appraised the Chairman's performance and carefully reviewed the 
relationship between the Chairman and the Executive Directors to 
ensure that the Board structure and relationships continued to 
promote the creation of shareholder value.
Cable and Wireless plc Board meeting attendance
Period covered: 1 April 2009 - 19 March 2010
  Audit Remuneration  Nominations
 Board  Committee  Committee  Committee
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne  9/9 - - 4/4
Executive Directors
George Battersby 9/9 - - -
Jim Marsh
1
 2/2 - - -
Tim Pennington 9/9 - - -
John Pluthero
2
  9/9 - - -
Tony Rice  9/9 - - -
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 9/9 5/5 7/7 -
John Barton 
2
 7/9 3/5 5/7 -
Clive Butler 
2
 9/9 5/5 7/7 4/4
Mary Francis 7/7 2/3 5/5 -
Penny Hughes 
2
 7/7 3/3 5/5 -
Kate Nealon 9/9 5/5 7/7 4/4
Kasper Rorsted 8/9 4/5 5/7 2/4
Agn s Touraine 
3
 1/1 1/1 1/1 -
- Director is not a Committee member. 
1  Jim Marsh was appointed on 1 January 2010 and resigned from the Board on 
26 March 2010 as a consequence of demerger.
2 Resigned from the Board as a consequence of the demerger on 26 March 2010.
3 Resigned from the Board on 19 May 2009.
The Board held nine scheduled meetings of Cable and Wireless plc 
during 2009/10. In addition, other meetings were held at short 
notice to consider matters that could not be held over until the 
next scheduled Board meeting. Details of Directors' attendance 
at scheduled Board and Committee meetings are shown in the 
table above. 
By order of the Board 
Clare Underwood
Company Secretary
26 May 2010 