 48 Cable & Wireless Communications
Audit Committee report
 This report sets out the membership, purposes and 
activities of the Audit Committee. During the year, the 
Committee has undertaken a number of key activities, 
including considering the effects of the disposal of the 
Monaco & Islands and Macau business units, reviews 
of judgemental accounting and disclosure issues such 
as exceptional items, revenue recognition, the risk 
management framework and the effectiveness of the 
Group' s external audit arrangements.   
Ian Tyler
Chairman of the Audit Committee
2012/13 Key activities
   Reviewing the annual report and accounts, 
preliminary results and press release for the year 
ended 31 March 2012
   Reviewing the composition and balance of trade 
receivables and accrued income during the year to 
assess the level of exposure within the Group
   Reviewing the nature and disclosure of exceptional 
items
   Reviewing the Group's revenue recognition 
policies and their application
   Reviewing the internal control and risk 
management framework processes and how they 
are implemented by the regional business units
   Reviewing the effectiveness of the in-house audit 
team and the co-source arrangements as well as 
the internal audit plan, taking into consideration 
the transformational activity during the year
   The appo intment of a new head of internal audit
   Reviewing the status of Group litigation
   Assessing the external auditor's independence and 
undertaking an evaluation of the external auditor
   Reviewing external audit strategy and fees, 
including the impact of the disposals on the scope 
of the audit
   Review of tax risk and treasury, accounting and tax 
policies
   Reviewing the interim results and press release for 
the six months ended 30 September 2012
   Monitoring Group insurance cover 
   Reviewing the accounting impact of the disposal of 
the Monaco & Islands and Macau business units
This report should be read in conjunction with the 
Directors' and corporate governance report on pages 
38 to 47. 
  Annual report 2012/13 49
Audit Committee membership 
The Audit Committee (the Committee) is comprised solely of 
independent Non-executive Directors. 
Membership and attendance at meetings
Simon Ball   4/4
Mary Francis
1
0/1
Mark Hamlin   4/4
Alison Platt
2
   3/3
Ian Tyler   4/4
1 Mary Francis retired from the Committee with effect from 30 June 2012.
2 Alison Platt was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 June 
2012.
With effect from 1 June 2012, Ian Tyler was appointed Chairman of 
the Committee and Alison Platt a member of the Committee.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the 
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and is 
confident that the collective experience of the members enables 
them to act as an effective Audit Committee. The outcomes of 
Committee meetings are reported to the Board.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to 
carry out its duties. 
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms 
of reference during the period and the full terms of reference are 
available at www.cwc.com.
The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms of 
reference and include:
  To review and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, 
internal audit and risk management systems
  To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring 
adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditors
  To monitor the integrity of the financial statements and 
announcements relating to financial performance, and review 
significant judgements contained in them
  To monitor the financial reporting process and the effectiveness 
of the statutory audit of the Annual report
   To review and monitor independence and performance of external 
auditors, recommend their appointment, re-appointment and 
removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation 
to the provision of non-audit services
Meetings
The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the year ended 
31 March 2013. Details of Committee membership and individual 
attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table on 
this page.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, 
Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG Audit Plc 
(KPMG), the Company's external auditor, are also invited to attend all 
Committee meetings. In May and November when the full year and 
half year results are considered, the Chairman is also invited to attend.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman 
in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial 
Controller and the external auditor. Each scheduled meeting 
commences with a private session, attended only by Committee 
members, the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit, to take 
soundings on matters to be discussed at the meeting or any other 
matters attendees wish to highlight. At each meeting the Committee 
then receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external 
auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual 
litigation reports.
Disclosure Committee
To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for 
identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection with 
the preparation of all market releases containing material financial 
information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee. This 
Committee comprises members of senior management from 
finance, legal, company secretarial and investor relations.
During the preparation of the Annual report, the Disclosure 
Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the 
document's review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Whistle blowing
The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by 
an independent third party and is available to all Group employees 
via a web-portal or by telephone. This provides a mechanism 
for employees to raise concerns where they either do not feel 
comfortable raising the matter with local management or they are 
not satisfied with the local management response. 
Internal Audit
Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported 
by a team of in-house auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, 
supplemented by a third party to provide specific skills as required. 
The internal audit plan is approved by the Committee annually.  50 Cable & Wireless Communications
Audit Committee report  
continued
External audit
The Board has accepted the Committee's recommendation that 
KPMG should be retained for 2013/14. This recommendation was 
based on a detailed review of the 2011/12 audit of the Company 
which demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance 
of KPMG as external auditor. The review included a survey of 
Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit, 
discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit, 
as well as an analysis of KPMG's capabilities and independence.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years. The audit 
engagement partner responsible for the 2012/13 audit will rotate 
following the completion of the Group's 2013/14 audit cycle.
KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the financial 
year 2009/10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless 
plc from 1991. There are no contractual obligations restricting 
the Company's choice of external auditors. A revised version of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code was issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council in September 2012 which provides that FTSE 350 
companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at 
least every 10 years. The Committee will consider these provisions 
and developing guidance in relation to audit tendering and rotation 
in light of emerging practice during the course of the financial year 
ending 31 March 2014.
KPMG has instigated an orderly wind down of KPMG Audit Plc as a 
result of an internal reorganisation and requested that going forward 
the audit is instead undertaken by KPMG LLP (an intermediate parent 
of KPMG Audit Plc). KPMG Audit Plc will not therefore be seeking 
re-appointment as auditor of the Company and in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the appointment of 
KPMG LLP as our auditor will be put to the 2013 AGM.
The Committee has established a policy to maintain the 
independence of the external auditor and its personnel and to 
govern the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by 
the auditor and its associates. The policy clearly identifies permitted 
and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed 
for the approval of all audit and non-audit services. All engagements 
with an expected fee in excess of US$400,000 require the prior 
approval of the Chairman of the Committee, and to be reported to 
the Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2013 the Committee approved fees 
for audit services of US$4.3 million, together with fees for audit-
related regulatory reporting of US$0.8 million and non-audit work of 
US$1.2 million. The nature of the services provided is set out in note 
6e to the consolidated financial statements. There is no limitation 
of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor to the 
Company.
Ian Tyler 
Chairman, Audit Committee
21 May 2013