 Profile
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications business
with customers in some 80 countries. Its principal operations are in
the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
Cable & Wireless provides voice, data, and IP services to business
and residential customers and wholesale services to fixed and
mobile telecommunications operators, and content, application 
and internet providers.
For 130 years, Cable & Wireless has provided telecommunications
services, networks and equipment to customers around the world.
Except for 34 years as a state-owned company after the Second
World War, Cable and Wireless plc has been incorporated in
England and Wales as a public limited company.
Historically, in many of our operations, Cable & Wireless was 
the sole telecommunications provider ( incumbent' operator),
focusing on switched voice and data services delivered over
traditional phone lines ( legacy' platforms).T oday, most markets 
in which Cable & Wireless operates have opened to competition
( liberalised') and market trends are moving away from these 
legacy platforms, toward new services delivered over IP networks.
Recent acquisitions and disposals
On 17 February 2005, Cable & Wireless sold its Japanese domestic
business, Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. (IDC ) to Softbank Corp, for a
consideration of  71.7 million comprising  62.3 million of cash and
the assumption by Softbank of debt of  9.4 million. Results for IDC
are included in discontinued operations.
On 28 January 2005, Cable & Wireless sold its 3.4 per cent stake
in Intelsat (the satellite communications company) for cash
consideration of  56 million (US$104.8 million).
On 18 June 2004, Cable & Wireless acquired 55 per cent of
Monaco Telecom S.A.M. (Monaco Telecom ), a Monaco based
telecommunication service provider from Vivendi Universal, for a
total consideration of  108 million ( 162 million).
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred
legal ownership of six per cent of the shares of Monaco T elecom
to Compagnie Monegasque de Banque S.A.M. (CMB ), an unrelated
third party. Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and
economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition,
the six per cent interest is subject to certain put and call options
that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide
full management control of Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders' agreement
with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other
provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the
Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares
in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on
transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the
Principality.The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 
45 per cent shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless 
at certain times after 1 January 2008.The exercise price under the
put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the
minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
Results for Monaco Telecom are discussed separately in the
Operating and financial review.
On 28 May 2004, Cable & Wireless acquired 100 per cent of
Bulldog Communications Limited (Bulldog ), a company specialising
in providing residential and business broadband services over its
own network in the UK, for a consideration of  18.6 million. Results
for Bulldog are discussed separately in the Operating and financial
review.
In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced that it planned to
withdraw from the US domestic market.At the request of the
purchaser of the Group's US assets, certain of the Group's US
subsidiaries (Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. and Cable &
Wireless USA, Inc., collectively referred to as CWA ) filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.
As a result of the subsequent auction process, on 23 January 2004,
SAVVIS Communications Corporation (SAVVIS ) entered into an
agreement with CWA for SAVVIS to acquire substantially all of the
assets of CWA for a sum of US$155 million in cash and
approximately US$12.4 million of assumed liabilities.
In order to provide US connectivity for data and IP services to
Cable & Wireless' multinational customers based in the United
Kingdom and other regions, Cable & Wireless continues to operate
in the United States through its subsidiary Cable & Wireless
Americas Operations, Inc. (CWAO ).
On 13 July 2004, as part of the ongoing bankruptcy process to
which CWA is subject, the US Bankruptcy Court confirmed a
bankruptcy Plan of Liquidation (the Liquidation Plan ) which
provided for the transfer of the assets remaining in the bankruptcy
estate to a liquidating trust for the benefit of creditors, named the
Omega Liquidating Trust.The Omega Liquidating Trust's operating
committee includes a representative of Cable and Wireless plc.
The Omega Liquidating Trust is in the process of determining final
claim amounts and distributing the assets of the bankruptcy estate
to the creditors.The process is expected to continue through 2006
and possibly beyond.
Also, on 13 July 2004, as part of the Plan of Reorganisation
(Reorganisation Plan ), the US Bankruptcy Court approved a
Global Settlement Agreement between Cable and Wireless plc 
and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to as the Named
Participants ), CWA and the committee of unsecured creditors.
Pursuant to the Global Settlement Agreement, as implemented by
the Reorganisation Plan, the Named Participants agreed to reduce
certain of their claims against CWA in exchange for releases from
any liability from CWA and to assign a portion of the distributions
to which they would otherwise be entitled in respect of their
Business overview
History and development of Cable & Wireless Organisational structure
Cable & Wireless is a consolidated group of companies comprising
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures around the world.The
companies listed below represent the largest of these:
Ownership
Country of interest 
incorporation per cent
Subsidiary
a
Bulldog Communications Limited England 100
Cable & Wireless 
Americas Operations, Inc. USA 100
Cable & Wireless 
(Barbados) Limited Barbados 81
Cable and Wireless 
(Cayman Islands) Limited Cayman Islands 100
Cable and Wireless Guernsey Ltd Guernsey 100
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited Jamaica 82
Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. Panama 49
Cable & Wireless UK England 100
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes 
de Macau, S.A.R.L. Macau 51
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited Maldives 45
Monaco T elecom S.A.M.
1
Monaco 49
Joint venture
b
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and 
Trinidad and Tobago Limited Tobago 49
Associate
c
Bahrain T elecommunications 
Company B.S.C. Bahrain 20
a
Subsidiaries are entities that Cable & Wireless controls through a majority of voting
rights, a majority of representation on the Board or through the right or actual exercise
of management control over the operating and financial policies of the subsidiary with a
view to gaining economic benefit from its activities. Results are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.
b
Joint ventures are entities in which Cable & Wireless holds an interest on a long-term
basis and are jointly controlled by Cable & Wireless and one or more others under 
a contractual arrangement. Results are accounted for under the gross equity method 
for financial reporting purposes.The gross equity method differs from the equity
method only in that it requires additional disclosures of the share of gross assets and
liabilities of  Interest in net assets of joint ventures' and  Turnover of the Group
including its share of joint ventures' on the face of the balance sheet and profit 
and loss account respectively.
c.
Associates are entities for which Cable & Wireless has at least a 20 per cent interest 
in the voting rights of the entity, held on a long-term basis and over which Cable &
Wireless exercises significant influence, but not management control. Results are
accounted for under the equity method for financial reporting purposes.
1
The Group holds an economic interest of 55 per cent in Monaco Telecom, S.A.M.
remaining claims to individual unsecured creditors who would grant
the Named Participants individual releases for any claims they might
have against them. More than 90 per cent in value of the unsecured
claimants agreed to provide the release to the Named Participants.
Under the asset purchase agreement with SAVVIS (completed on 
8 March 2004 following SAVVIS' success in the Chapter 11 based
auction process for CWA assets), the Named Participants agreed 
to remain contingently liable until 5 September 2007 (subject to
the earlier occurrence of certain events) for up to approximately
US$104 million of guarantees and letters of credit in favour of
CWA landlords, which SAVVIS has agreed in the asset purchase
agreements to reimburse in the event of a call for payment. SAVVIS
has also agreed to replace the Named Participants' guarantees and
letters of credit with direct SAVVIS guarantees and letters of credit
by 23 July 2007.
24/25 2005 Annual Report
Business overview
History and development of Cable & Wireless Corporate governance
26 Corporate and social responsibility report
30 Board of Directors
32 Directors' report
41 Directors' remuneration report
54 Statement of Directors' responsibilities
Corporate
governance