 50
Corporate governance report
Our Board is committed to ensuring that high
standards of corporate governance are maintained
by Cable & Wireless.
Our governing policies and practices are detailed in this
report and in the reports of the Audit Committee on page 53
and Remuneration Committee on pages 54 to 63. T ogether ,
these reports provide shareholders with an insight into how
our Board and senior management run the business to
increase shareholder value. 
Board membership and attendance
At 31 March 2008 our Board comprised the Chairman, 
three Executive Directors and five Non-executive 
Directors, who are collectively responsible for the success 
of Cable & Wireless. One Executive Director , Harris Jones,
left during the period under review. Biographies of the
current Directors and details of their Committee membership
are shown on page 45.
Our Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills 
and experience to Cable & Wireless. They provide an
independent view on matters of strategy , performance, 
risk and people through their contribution at Board and
Committee meetings. The Board considers that all our 
Non-executive Directors are independent in character and
judgement. Non-executive Directors are appointed for an
initial three year term with the expectation that a further 
term will follow, subject to review by the Board. The terms
and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive
Directors are available for inspection at our registered 
office during normal business hours and at our AGM.
The Board met on eight occasions during 2007/08 and, 
in addition, attended meetings to consider the strategic
direction of different parts of the business. Details of
Directors' attendance at scheduled Board and Committee
meetings are shown below.
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 8 - - 2
Executive Directors
George Battersby 8 - - -
John Pluthero 8 - - -
T ony Rice 8 - - -
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 8 5 7 -
Clive Butler 8 5 7 2
Kate Nealon 7 4 7 2
Kasper Rorsted 8 5 6 2
Agn s T ouraine 8 5 7 -
Former Executive Directors
Harris Jones 3---
Meetings held during the year 8 5 7 2
- Director is not a Committee member . 
The Senior Independent Director is Clive Butler . Clive 
is charged with establishing a communication channel
between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors 
and ensuring that the views of each Non-executive Director
are given due consideration. He is also a contact point for
shareholders if they have reason for concern which contact
through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive
Directors has failed to resolve, or for which contact is
inappropriate.
Role of the Board
The Board leads Cable & Wireless and, either directly 
or through the operation of its Committees and delegated
authority , brings an independent judgement on all matters 
of strategy , performance, resources (including key
appointments) and standards of conduct. The Board
Committees are constituted with appropriate written terms
of reference that are reviewed annually and together with
our Articles of Association are published on our website 
at www.cw.com. Each Director is entitled to one vote at
Board meetings. All votes are equal in power .
The Board is responsible for the strategic aims of Cable 
& Wireless, which are then implemented through the approval
and regular monitoring of performance against the budget
and five year plan prepared by the Executive Directors. 
At its regular meetings, the Board deals with both those
matters specifically reserved for its decision and any other
material matters. Reserved matters include Group strategy ,
financial reporting and control, acquisitions and disposals,
annual budgets and operating plans, customer contracts 
and expenditure over a certain financial limit, Board and
Committee membership and other senior appointments,
Director and senior executive remuneration, delegation 
of authority and corporate governance. Further detail 
of the Board's reserved powers may be found on our 
website at www.cw.com.
The Board and its Committees are provided with full and
timely information prior to meetings, including detailed
financial information. The Chairman, in consultation with the
Company Secretary and Executive Directors, sets the agenda
for Board meetings. Formal minutes recording decisions of all
Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated
to each Director as appropriate. If a Director objects to a
particular proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of 
the relevant meeting. During the year ended 31 March 2008,
as for the previous year , there were no such objections.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate
induction is given to any new Board member . Directors
receive appropriate training, briefings and information, 
both orally and in written form, to enable them to perform their
roles both on the Board and its Committees. All Directors
have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and 
in addition, the Board has established a procedure whereby
any Director , wishing to do so in the furtherance of their
duties, may take independent professional advice on any
matter at the Company's expense. Governance
51
During the year ended 31 March 2008, responsibility 
for the day-to-day management of Europe, Asia & US 
was delegated to John Pluthero and responsibility for
management of the Central functions was delegated to 
T ony Rice. Until 12 November 2007 , responsibility for the
day-to-day management of International was delegated 
to Harris Jones. Subsequent to this date, John Pluthero 
was appointed as Executive Chairman of International 
and assumed day-to-day management of International 
in addition to Europe, Asia & US.
During the year under review, the Operating Boards for
International and Europe, Asia & US continued to meet and
operate. Until 12 November 2007 , Lord Robertson of Port
Ellen was the Non-executive Chairman of International and
membership of the International Operating Board included
Harris Jones, members of his senior management team and
three Investor Directors. Subsequent to that date, John
Pluthero became Executive Chairman of International 
and a number of changes were made to the International
Operating Board following changes to the International
senior management team. Throughout this time, continuity
was provided by the three Investor Directors appointed by
the Board, being T ony Rice (Joint Group Managing Director ,
Central and Group Finance Director), George Battersby
(Group HR Director) and Nick Cooper (Group General
Counsel and Company Secretary).
Membership of the Europe, Asia & US Operating Board
includes John Pluthero as Executive Chairman, Jim Marsh
as Chief Executive, and members of the senior management
team, together with the three Investor Directors named above.
Separate schedules of reserved matters have been created
for the two Operating Boards and the Board may delegate
power to the Investor Directors to grant approval on any
matter otherwise reserved for the Board.
Committees of the Board
Membership of Committees of the Board is reviewed
annually . Reports on the purpose and activities of the 
Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are 
included on pages 53 and 54 to 63 respectively .
A Nominations Committee has been established by the
Board to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place 
for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of
Directors as well as ensuring that succession planning is
being undertaken. The Nominations Committee reviews 
the balance of Board membership and the required blend 
of skills, knowledge and experience by considering its
structure, size and composition. The Committee was active
in making recommendations for changes to the Board during
the year . Members of the Committee abstain when matters
affecting their own appointments are discussed. 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Clive Butler
(Senior Independent Director) and the other members are
Richard Lapthorne (Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc),
Kate Nealon (Chair of the Remuneration Committee) and
Kasper Rorsted (Chairman of the Audit Committee). The
majority of its members are independent Non-executive
Directors. The Committee met twice during the year under
review and its full terms of reference are available on our
website at www.cw.com. 
Performance evaluation
Since the last Annual Report, the Board has undertaken 
its annual evaluation of performance including a review 
of the performance and membership of its principal
committees. Unlike the previous year when an external
facilitator was appointed, the Board elected to undertake 
this year's evaluation in-house, led by the Chairman. 
The process included the completion of a detailed
questionnaire by each Board member together with 
private meetings as appropriate. The conclusions of the
Board evaluation, including a review of progress against
points raised in previous years, were collated by the
Company Secretary and then presented to, and 
considered by , the whole Board.
During the year , the Non-executive Directors again met
privately both with and without the Chairman being present,
to consider management performance and succession
issues. The Non-executive Directors appraised the
Chairman's performance and carefully reviewed the
relationship between the Chairman and the Joint Group
Managing Directors to ensure that the Board structure 
and relationships continued to promote the creation of
shareholder value. As part of this evaluation the Senior
Independent Director met with Executive Directors to
discuss their views.
Compliance with the Combined Code (the Code)
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, we complied
with all Code provisions set out in Section One of the 2006
FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance with one
exception. C.3.1 of the Code provides that the Board should
satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee
has recent and relevant financial experience. As in previous
years, our Board considers that there is a sufficient breadth
of financial expertise across the Audit Committee and 
that, collectively , its members have the requisite skills 
and attributes to discharge its responsibilities properly . 
As a result, the Board has decided not to identify any one
member as having such experience.
By order of the Board
Nick Cooper
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 
21 May 2008