 40	
GOVERNANCE
CORp ORATE GOVERNANCE REp ORT
Our Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance, responsibility and risk management. 
Our	 key	 policies	 and	 practices	 are	 set	 out	 in	 this	 governance	 report	
as	 well	 as	 in	 the	 reports	 of	 the	 Audit	 Committee	 on	 pages	42 	
and	 43	 and	 Remuneration	 Committee	 on	 pages	 44	 to	 55.	 T ogether	
these	 reports	 provide	 shareholders	 with	 an	 insight	 into	 how	 our	
Board	 and	 senior	management	run	the	business.	
The	disclosures	that	fulfil	the	requirements	of	a	corporate	
governance	 report	 under	 the	 Disclosure	 and	 Transparency	 Rules	
are	contained	in	the	Directors'	report	in	the	sections	headed	
Share capital and treasury shares, Company's shareholders, 
Appointment and replacement of Directors and Powers of 
Directors	on	pages	35	to	39	and	are 	incorporated	into	this	
corporate	governance	statement	by	reference.
Board composition and attendance 
At	31	March	2010	our	Board	comprised	the	Chairman,	one	
Executive	 Director	 and	 three	 Non-executive	 Directors,	 including	
the	Senior	Independent	Director,	all	of	whom	were	former	
directors	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc.	Biographies	of	the	
Directors,	including	 details	 of	 their	 committee	 memberships,	 are	
shown	 on	 pages	 32	 to	 33.	 In	 May	 2010	 the	 Board	 increased	 to	
six	 members	when	Tim	Weller	joined	as	an	Executive	Director	
and	Chief	Financial	Officer.	
Half	 of	 the	 Board	 are	 Non-executive	 Directors,	 all	 of	 whom	 the	
Board	 consider	 to	 be	 independent	 in	 character	 and	 judgement.	
Collectively,	 our	 Non-executive	 Directors	 bring	a	 wide	 range	 of	
skills	and	business	experience	to	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	
and	their	contribution	to	Board	decision-making	is	a	
considerable	factor	in	achieving	our	strategic	aims.	
The	Non-executive	Directors	are 	initially	appointed	for	a		
three	year	term.	The	 terms	 and	 conditions	 of	 appointment	 of	
the	 Non-executive	Directors,	 together	 with	 service	 contracts	
for	 Executive	 Directors,	are 	available	for	inspection	by	
shareholders	at	our	registered	office	during	normal		
business	hours	and	at	our	AGM.	
The	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	board	held	nine	scheduled	
meetings	during	2009/10.	In	addition,	other	meetings	were	
held	at	short	notice	to	consider	matters	which	could	not	be	
held	over	until	the	next	scheduled	board	meeting.	Details	of	
Directors'	attendance	at	scheduled	board	and	committee	
meetings	are 	shown	in	the	table	below.
Cable and Wireless plc board and committee meeting attendance
	 	 Audit	 Remuneration 	 	 Nomination	
Board		 Committee	 	 Committee	 	 Committee	 Committee
Chairman	
John	 Pluthero	 9/9	 -	 -	 -
				
Executive Director		 	 	 	
Jim	 Marsh
1
	 2/2	 -	 -	 -
				
Non-executive Directors      
John	 Barton	 7/9	 3/5	 5/7	 -
Clive	 Butler	 9/9	 5/5	 7/7	 4/4
Penny	 Hughes
2
	 7/7	 3/3	 5/5	 -
-	 	 Director	is	not	a	Committee	member.
1	 	 Jim	Marsh	was	appointed	to	the	board	on	1	January	2010.	
2	 	 Penny	Hughes	was	appointed	to	the	board	on	1	July	2009	and	to	the	Audit	and	
Remuneration	Committees	on	17	July	2009.
For	the	purposes	of	the	Demerger,	the	Board	met	on	
three	occasions	during	the	period	under	review.	Details	of	
Directors'	attendance	at	scheduled	board	and	committee	
meetings	are 	shown	in	the	table	below:
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Board and  
committee meeting attendance
	 	 Audit	 Remuneration 	 	 Nomination	
	 Board	 	 Committee	 	 Committee	 	 Committee
Chairman     
John	 Pluthero	 3/3	 -	 -	 None
				
Executive Director     
Jim	 Marsh	 3/3	 -	 -	 -
				
Non-executive Directors     
John	 Barton	 3/3	 1/1	 1/1	 None
Clive	 Butler	 3/3	 1/1	 1/1	 None
Penny	 Hughes	 3/3	 1/1	 1/1	 None
				
-	 	 Director	is	not	a	Committee	member.
Role of the Board 
The	Board	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	sets	the	strategic	
aims	of	the	Group	and	is	collectively	responsible	for	matters	
of	strategy,	performance,	resources,	standards	of	conduct	
and	accountability.
Matters	reserved	for	the	Board	include:	Group	strategy;	
corporate	governance;	financial	reporting	and	controls;	
budgets	and	operating	plans;	acquisitions	and	disposals;	
appointments	to	the	Board,	Committees	and	some	
senior	executive	positions;	Director	and	senior	executive	
remuneration;	delegation	of	authority;	customer	contracts;	
and	expenditure	over	a	certain	financial	limit.	Other	specific	
responsibilities	 are	delegated	to	the	Committees,	each	with	
clearly	defined	terms	of	reference.
Full	details	on	matters	reserved	for	the	Board	and	the	terms	
of	reference	of	its	Committees	can	be	found	on	our	website	
at	www.cw.com.
The	Chairman,	in	consultation	with	the	Company	Secretary	
and	Executive	Directors,	sets	the	agenda	for	Board	meetings	
and	full	and	timely	information	is	provided	to	all	Board	and	
Committee	members	prior	to	meetings.	Formal	minutes	
recording	decisions	of	all	Board	and	Committee	meetings	are 	
prepared	and	circulated	to	each	Director	as	appropriate.	 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 41
If	a	Director	objects	to	a	particular	proposal,	this	is	recorded	
in	the	minutes	of	the	relevant	meeting.	During	the	year	ended	
31	March	2010	there	were	no	such	objections.
Jim	Marsh,	as	Chief	Executive	Officer	of	Cable&Wireless	
Worldwide,	has	overall	responsibility	for	the	day-to-day	
management	of	the	business.	
The Senior Independent Director 
John	Barton	was	appointed	Senior	Independent	Director	on	
26	March	2010.	The	Senior	Independent	Director	is	available	
to	meet	shareholders	on	request	and	is	the	designated	point	
of	contact	for	shareholders	to	raise	any	concerns	where	
contact	through	the	normal	channels	of	the	Chairman	or	
Executive	Directors	has	failed	to	resolve	or	where	contact		
is	inappropriate.	
In	fulfilment	of	the	obligations	under	the	Combined	Code,	the	
Chairman	(or	as	appropriate	the	Senior	Independent	Director	
and	other	Directors)	will	maintain	sufficient	contact	with	major	
shareholders	to	understand	their	issues	and	concerns	and	
give	feedback	to	the	Board	on	any	matters	raised.
Committees of the Board 
Membership	of	the	Audit	and	Remuneration	Committees	is	
entirely	composed	of	Non-executive	Directors.	The	reports		
of	the	Audit	Committee	and	Remuneration	Committee	are 		
set	out	on	pages	42	and	43	and	44	to	55	respectively.	
A	 Nomination	 Committee	 has	 been	 established	 by	
Cable&Wireless	 Worldwide.	 It	 is	 chaired	 by	 John	 Pluthero	 and	
the	 other	 members	 are	 John	 Barton,	 Penny	 Hughes	 and	 Clive	
Butler.	 John	 Pluthero	 will	 not	 chair	 any	 meeting	 at	 which	 his	
own	 successor	 as	 Chairman	 is	 under	 review;	 such	 meetings	
will	 be	 chaired	 by	 the	 Deputy	 Chairman.	 The	 majority	 of	 the	
members	 are	 independent	 Non-executive	 Directors.	 The	
Nomination	 Committee	 has	 not	 met	 during	 the	 period	 under	
review	 but	 intends	 to	 meet	 during	 the	 coming	 year	 to	 review	 the	
composition	 of	 the	 Board,	 including	 the	 range	 and	 experience	
of	 its	 members,	 its	 structure	 and	 its	 size.	 Formal	 procedures	 are	
in	 place	 for	 the	 nomination,	 selection,	 training	 and	 evaluation	 of	
Directors	 as	 well	 as	 succession	 planning.	
The	induction	of	new	Board	members	is	undertaken	by	the	
Company	Secretary	at	the	request	of	the	Chairman,	who	
retains	responsibility	for	the	induction	process.	It	includes	
meetings	with	senior	management.	Meetings	with	major	
shareholders	may	be	arranged	on	request.
All	Directors	have	access	to	the	advice	of	the	Company	
Secretary	as	well	as	appropriate	training	and	briefings.	
Additionally,	any	Director	may	take	independent	professional	
advice	on	any	matter	at	the	Company's	expense	in	the	
furtherance	of	their	duties.	
Performance evaluation
The	 Chairman	 plans	 to	 lead	 an	 internal	 performance	 evaluation	
of	 the	 Board	 and	 its	 Committees	 in	 the	 form	 of	a	 detailed	
questionnaire.	 The	 findings	 will	 be	 collated	 by	 the	 Company	
Secretary	 and	 presented	 to	 the	 Board	 for	 consideration.
During	the	year,	the	Non-executive	Directors	will	meet	
privately,	both	with	and	without	the	Chairman	being	present,	
to	consider	management	performance	and	succession	
issues.	The	Non-executive	Directors	will	also	appraise	the	
Chairman's	performance	and	carefully	review	the	relationship	
between	the	Chairman	and	the	Executive	Directors	to	
ensure	that	the	Board	structure	and	relationships	continue	
to	promote	the	creation	of	shareholder	value.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (the Code)
The	Board	is	committed	to	ensuring	the	highest	standards	of	
corporate	governance	are 	maintained	and	that	the	Company	
complies	with	the	Code.	A	full	version	of	the	Code	can	
be	found	at	www.frc.org.uk.	The	Board	confirms	that	the	
Company	has,	throughout	the	period	under	review,	complied	
with	all	provisions	set	out	in	Section	One	of	the	Code	except	
as	set	out	below:
A.2.2	of	the	Code	provides	that	the	chairman	should	on	
appointment	meet	certain	independence	criteria.	John	
Pluthero,	the	Chairman	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide,	is	not	
treated	as	independent	as	he	was,	when	originally	appointed	
to	the	board	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc,	an	executive	
director.	The	Board	has	considered	this	carefully	but,	given	
his	r ole	prior	to	the	Demerger	as	Executive	Chairman	of	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	and	the	nature	and	importance	
of	his	contribution	to	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide,	the	Board	
believes	that	his	appointment	as	Chairman	is	in	the	best	
interests	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	and	its	shareholders	
as	a	whole	notwithstanding	his	previous	executive	role.	
Whilst	the	Board	is	satisfied	that	he	will	bring	independence	
of	judgement	to	the	Board,	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	is	
also	confident	that	John	Barton	as	Senior	Independent	
Director	and	Deputy	Chairman	will,	with	the	other	Non-
executive	Directors,	provide	a	strong	and	clearly	independent	
perspective	for	the	Board	which	will	complement	the	
experience	of	John	Pluthero	as	well	as	Jim	Marsh,		
Tim	Weller	and	the	executive	team.
A.7.1	of	the	Code	provides	that	all	directors	should	be	
subject	to	election	by	shareholders	at	the	first	annual	general	
meeting	after	their	appointment.	The	Articles	provide	that,	at	
the	first	two	Annual	General	Meetings	following	the	Demerger,	
one	third	of	the	directors	shall	retire	from	office	but	shall	be	
eligible	for	re-appointment.	This	provision	was	included	in	the	
Articles	as	a	result	of	the	Demerger	to	provide	an	even	spread	
of	director	re-appointments	and	hence	not	all	directors	are 	
standing	for	re-appointment	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting.
Rule	7.1.1	of	the	Disclosur e	and	Transparency	Rules	requires	
at	least	one	member	of	the	Audit	Committee	to	have	
competence	in	accounting	and/or	auditing	and	the	Board	
is	satisfied	that	the	composition	of	the	Audit	Committee	
complies	with	that	requirement.	However,	it	is	a	separate	
provision	of	C.3.1	of	the	Combined	Code	that	at	least	one	
member	of	the	Audit	Committee	should	have	recent	and	
relevant	financial	experience.	The	Board	considers	that	there	
is	sufficient	breadth	of	financial	expertise	across	the	Audit	
Committee	and	that,	collectively,	its	members	have	the	
requisite	skills	and	attributes	to	discharge	its	responsibilities	
properly.	As	a	result	the	Board	has	decided	not	to	identify		
any	one	member	as	having	such	experience.
By	order	of	the	Board	
Philip Davis 
General	Counsel	and	Company	Secretary		
26	May	2010