 15
Corporate Governance
Policy Statement
The company, though not required to comply,
fully supports the Principles of Good
Governance and the Code of Best Practice
prepared by the Committee on Corporate
Governance published in June 1998 (the
Old Combined Code ). The company, other
than stated below, has been in full
compliance with the provisions set out in the
Old Combined Code throughout the year to
31 December 2004.
Board constitution and procedures
The Board comprises two Executive and three
Non-Executive Directors. The roles of
Chairman and Chief Executive are separate
with a clear division of responsibilities. The
Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of
experience from widely different backgrounds
and the Board considers that, subject as set
out below, they are independent. Mr A.P.
Baker, who is also the Company Secretary, is
a partner in Clyde & Co, the company's
legal advisers. In the opinion of the Board his
independence is not materially impaired by
virtue of this role. Mr A.P. Baker is the senior
Non-Executive Director to whom any
concerns may be conveyed.
The Board meets monthly to consider the
current state of the business and strategic
issues, and there is a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved for its decision
which can only be amended by the Board
itself. This includes acquisition and investment
policy, major capital expenditure, annual
operating budgets, health & safety issues 
and the Group management and control
structure and procedures. Arrangements are
in place to deal with exceptional
circumstances when decisions reserved for
the Board are required between meetings.
Board papers, including management
accounts, are distributed well in advance of
the meetings.
Non-Executive Directors have access to all
information and, if required, external advice,
at the expense of the company. All Directors
have access to the Company Secretary,
whose removal and appointment is a matter
for the Board as a whole and who is
responsible to the Board for ensuring that
agreed procedures and applicable rules and
regulations are observed.
The Board has responsibility for selecting
suitable candidates to hold office as Director.
The appointments of Non-Executives are
capable of being renewed at the discretion
of the full Board every three years and at the
discretion of shareholders when seeking re-
election at Annual General Meetings.
Selection Criteria for Our 
Non-Executive Directors
We wanted to create a team of Non-
Executive Directors with a balance of
knowledge, experience and skills combined
with personal chemistry that ensures that the
team functions to its maximum potential. In
order to comply with the revised Combined
Code on the independence of directors, we
ensured that on appointment, our new Non-
Executive Chairman is clearly independent in
all respects. However, given the relatively
small size of the Group, the recent trading
history, the amount of recent change and our
move to the AIM market we decided that it
was important to retain the experience and
skills of our other Non-Executive Directors
even though they are not considered
independent by the test of the revised
Combined Code. Both Ken Manley and
Andrew Baker have served on the Board for
longer than 9 years. Ken also represents a
significant shareholding, held by his
associate. Clyde & Co, where Andrew is a
partner, acts as the Group's solicitors. 16
Christian Williams, 
appointed December 2003
We looked for somebody who had a well-
established reputation within the financial
markets and a broad business background
outside our industry to bring a wider
perspective to our decision-making. We also
looked for somebody who had been involved
in helping businesses through significant
change. Having previous senior executive
experience in the turnaround of the food
retailer, Budgens plc, our new Chairman
brings all these attributes and moreover
shares our vision for the future of the business.
Christian was appointed after a search using
a number of independent external City
advisers for recommendations and is clearly
independent in all respects as defined by the
new Combined Code. 
Ken Manley, 
appointed May 1994
We wanted to retain an intimate knowledge
and experience of our business and the food
industry generally and an enthusiasm for the
continued development of the business. With
his wider interests as a Non-Executive
Director of various private companies and his
vast knowledge and experience of our and
similar food businesses, Ken brings a
pragmatic approach to our decision-making. 
Andrew Baker, 
appointed September 1984
With the changing nature of our business we
sought an individual who could offer help
and advice on the current and forthcoming
legislation and also on potential acquisitions
and divestments. As a senior partner in one
of the UK's leading Law firms and as a Non-
Executive Director of a financial institution,
Andrew brings a clarity of thought and action
that ensures the Board is always making
decisions from the best informed position.
Both Ken and Andrew were existing Directors
of the business prior to its name change to
Canterbury Foods Group plc. 
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit
Committee and a Remuneration Committee,
the members of which are indicated on 
page 13. 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice
annually and, in addition, the auditors may
request a meeting at any time. The Audit
Committee is responsible for reviewing a
wide range of matters including the interim
and annual accounts prior to their submission
to the Board. The Audit Committee keeps
under review the appointment and
remuneration of external auditors, their cost-
effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
Both Committees currently consist of only 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible
for determining the remuneration, contract
terms and other benefits of the Executive
Directors. The Directors' Remuneration Report
is set out on pages 18 to 20.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's
system of internal control, financial and
otherwise, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives, and
can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code introduced a
requirement (the Turnbull guidance) that the
Directors review the effectiveness of the
Group's system of internal control, covering
Corporate Governance continued 17
all aspects of the business. The Board has an
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing risks. It has established a risk
assessment committee and, with the
assistance of external consultants, it ensures
that plans are in place to manage these risks
and to undertake a periodic review of
controls.
The Board has in place an organisational
structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. All
operations prepare annual plans and
budgets, which are updated regularly.
Performance against budgets is monitored at
operational level and centrally, with variances
being reported promptly. There are clearly
defined guidelines for capital expenditure
appraisal review procedures and levels of
authority. The Board has reviewed the need
for an Internal Audit function and concluded
that the current practice of using external
resources as necessary remains the most
effective solution.
Relations with shareholders
The company actively seeks to enter into
dialogue with institutional shareholders
including presentations after the company's
preliminary and interim results. It also
endorses the Combined Code principles
generally on the conduct of Annual General
Meetings including that such meetings be
used as an opportunity for effective
communication with private shareholders
whose participation in the proceedings
should be encouraged.
The Board recognises its responsibilities to
provide a balanced and understandable
assessment of the company's performance
and prospects. This is reflected in these
financial statements in the Chairman's
Statement, the Review of Operations and the
Financial Review.
Statement of Directors'
Responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year which give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the company and the
Group as at the end of the financial year and
of the profit or loss of the Group for that
period. In preparing those financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
 
Select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently.
 
Make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent.
 
Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the 
company and the Group will continue 
in business.
 
State whether applicable accounting 
standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company and the
Group and to enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for
ensuring that the Directors' Report, the
Directors' Remuneration Report and other
information included in the Annual Report is
prepared in accordance with company law
in the United Kingdom. 