 Care UK annual report 2006 20
The directors acknowledge the principles set out in the
Combined Code issued in 1998 by the committee on Corporate
Governance and intend to comply with the main provisions
thereof. The company has complied with the provisions of the
Combined Code throughout the year. This report does not 
cover the group's 50% joint venture interest, Partnership Health
Group Limited.
The Company applies the principles of the Combined Code in
the following ways:
Internal control
The directors are responsible for the group's system of internal
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control
systems are designed to meet the group's particular needs and
manage the risks to which it is exposed, and by its nature can
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that the directors' review the
effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls. This
requirement extends this review to cover all controls, including:
l Financial;
l Operational;
l Compliance; and
l Risk management.
The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the
group, that has been in place for the year under review, and 
that this process is regularly reviewed by the directors, and
accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The group operates in one of the most closely monitored and
regulated areas of business, the care sector. Its divisions are
subject to external inspections by registration and other
authorities, which are followed up by publicly available reports. 
It also regularly conducts its own internal inspections.
With regard to financial matters, the group operates within a
control environment, which is designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the safeguarding of assets against
unauthorised use or disposition, the maintenance of proper
accounting records and the reliability of financial information
used within the business or for publication. 
Key established procedures are:
l The definition of the organisation structure and the
appropriate delegation of responsibility to operational
management;
l The definition of authorisation limits, both financial and
otherwise;
l Written operational procedures;
l A system of financial reporting encompassing an annual
budget, updated forecasts and the monthly reporting 
of actual results measured against both budget and 
forecast; and
l The regular assessment of risks facing the business and 
the reporting of operational performance to the Board,
including internal and external clinical audit reports.
The group's Risk Management Steering Group (RMSG )
oversees the group's risk assessment process. The RMSG is
chaired by the Finance Director and comprises representatives
from each of the group's operating divisions as well as key
functional areas, including clinical governance.
The senior management of the operating divisions regularly
review the systems of internal control in their respective divisions,
which are supported by assessments of key business risks,
controls and resulting exposures and confirm their compliance
with them. These assessments are reviewed by the RMSG and 
are subsequently reported to the group Executive Committee 
and the Board.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities, primarily reviewing the systems of internal 
control and risk management, and the audit process. The
external auditors attend all relevant meetings.
The group has recently put in place a formal internal audit
function. The function will report to the Finance Director 
but with direct access to the Audit Committee.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness
of the group's system of internal controls utilising inter alia, the
procedures identified above.
Going concern
After making enquiries the directors, at the time of approving
the financial statements, have formed the judgement that the
group has adequate resources to continue in operational
Report on corporate governance
for the year ended 30 September 2006 Care UK annual report 2006 21
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
The statement of directors' responsibilities for preparing 
the financial statements is set out on page 29.
Directors
At 30 September 2006 the Board comprised the non-executive
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and three
non-executive directors. The directors' biographies appear on
page 16, and detail their experience ensuring an effective Board
to lead and manage the group. Since 30 September 2006 two
further independent non-executive directors have been
appointed to the Board. All of the non-executive directors, 
other than the Chairman, are considered by the Board as 
being independent, and Fritz Ternofsky has been identified 
as the senior independent director.
The non-executive directors have made arrangements to meet 
at least annually without the Chairman present, in order to
review and evaluate the performance of the Board, its principal
Committees and the Chairman. The non-executive directors seek,
and take into account, the views of the executive directors in
carrying out this review.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and may 
take independent advice at the group's expense. The Board
meets monthly and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved
for its decision. The Board has established three committees 
with defined terms of reference as detailed below. The terms 
of reference of each of these Committees may be obtained by
writing to the Company Secretary at the company's registered
office or e-mailing a request to investorrelations@careuk.com.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lesley James 
and also comprises Fritz Ternofsky and Miles Roberts. The
Committee recommends the remuneration of the executive
directors, including the granting of share awards and service
contracts. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will 
be available at the Annual General Meeting on 7 February 2007
to answer any questions regarding remuneration. The
Remuneration report appears on pages 23 to 28.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises Lesley James, John Nash,
Miles Roberts, Fritz Ternofsky and Mike Parish and is chaired by
Lesley James. The Committee meets as and when necessary for
the appointment of new directors. Since the end of the financial
year the Committee met to consider the proposed appointments
of Michael Averill and James Strachan. The Committee utilised
the services of an external search consultancy in relation to both
of these appointments.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Miles Roberts and also
comprises Fritz Ternofsky and Lesley James. The Committee has
direct access to the group's auditors and liaises with executive
management to review the effectiveness of internal controls.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the
integrity of the group's financial statements. The Committee is
responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit
process and making recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the
external auditor. It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate
relationship between the group and the external auditor is
maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees. 
The group has agreed a policy on non-audit work, which sets 
out monetary limits for work that may be undertaken by the
external auditor, in order to safeguard audit independence. The
Committee also reviews annually the group's systems of internal
control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks
facing the group. The Committee reviews its terms of reference
and its effectiveness annually and recommends to the Board any
changes required as a result of the review.
In 2006, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
l Reviewing the group's draft financial statements and interim
results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the
external auditor's detailed reports thereon;
l Reviewing the appropriateness of the group's accounting
policies;
l Reviewing the potential impact in the group's financial
statements of certain matters such as impairments of
intangible and tangible fixed asset values and proposed
International Financial Reporting Standards;
l Reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing those
non-audit fees payable to the group's external auditors that
require Committee approval; Care UK annual report 2006 22
l Reviewing the external auditor's plan for the audit of the
group's financial statements which included key risks on the
financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence
and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of
engagement for the audit; and
l Reviewing an annual report on the group's systems of
internal control and its effectiveness and reporting to the
Board on the results of the review.
Relations with shareholders
The Board understands the need for communication with both
institutional and private shareholders. In addition to general
presentations after the publication of the group's interim and
final results the Chief Executive and Finance Director meet
regularly with fund managers, analysts and institutional investors.
The company's AGM provides a forum for all shareholders 
to attend and put questions to the Board. All resolutions 
are proposed separately. All results statements, company
announcements and investor presentations are accessible 
to all shareholders via the group's website, www.careuk.com.
Board attendance
The table below shows the number of potential Board and
Committee meetings for each current director, as well as the
number of meetings actually attended, during the year ended 
30 September 2006. 
Report on corporate governance
continued
Director Scheduled Board Remuneration Audit Committee
Meetings Committee Meetings Meetings
Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
John Nash 13 10 - - - -
Mike Parish 13 13 - - - -
Paul Humphreys 13 13 - - - -
Fritz Ternofsky 13 12 2 2 4 3
Lesley James 13 10 2 2 4 3
Miles Roberts 13 12 - - 4 4
Ruth Carnall 11 10 22 - -
Tim Chessells 4 2 - - - -
There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee during the year ended 30 September 2006.