 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 34
The directors acknowledge the principles set out in the Combined Code issued in 2006 by the Committee on Corporate Governance 
and intend to comply with the main provisions thereof. The company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code 
throughout the year.
The company applies the principles of the Combined Code in the following ways:
Internal control
The directors are responsible for the group's system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control 
systems are designed to meet the group's particular needs and manage the risks to which it is exposed, and by its nature 
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that the directors' review the effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls. 
This requirement extends this review to cover all controls, including:
A financial;
A operational;
A compliance; and
A risk management.
The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group, 
that has been in place for the year under review, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the directors, and accords with 
the Turnbull guidance.
The group operates in the care sector, one of the most closely monitored and regulated areas of business. Its services are subject 
to external inspections by registration and other authorities, which are followed up by publicly available reports. It also regularly 
conducts its own internal inspections.
With regard to financial matters, the group operates within a control environment, designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition, the maintenance of proper accounting records 
and the reliability of financial information used within the business or for publication. 
Key established procedures are:
A the definition of the organisation structure and the appropriate delegation of responsibility to operational management;
A the definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise;
A written operational procedures;
A  a system of financial reporting encompassing an annual budget, updated forecasts and the monthly reporting of actual 
results measured against both budget and forecast; and
A  the regular assessment of risks facing the business and the reporting of operational performance to the board, including 
internal and external clinical audit reports.
The group's Finance Director oversees the group's risk assessment process. The senior management of the operating divisions 
regularly review the systems of internal control in their respective divisions, which are supported by assessments of key business 
risks, controls and resulting exposures, and confirm their compliance with them. These assessments are reviewed by the 
Finance Director and are subsequently reported to the group Executive Committee and the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, primarily reviewing the systems of internal 
control and risk management, and the audit process. The external auditor attends all relevant meetings.
The group has in place a formal internal audit function. The function reports to the Finance Director but with direct access 
to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee approve the annual internal audit strategy and plan and approve the amount 
of resources allocated to the internal audit function.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls utilising, inter alia, 
the procedures identified above.
Report on corporate governance
for the year ended 30 September 2008 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 35
Going concern
After making enquiries the directors, at the time of approving the financial statements, have formed the judgement that the 
group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The statement of directors' responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is set out on page 43.
The board of directors
At 30 September 2008 the board comprised the non executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and four 
non executive directors. The directors' biographies appear on page 25 and detail their experience ensuring an effective board 
to lead and manage the group. All of the non executive directors, other than the Chairman, are considered by the board as 
being independent, and Fritz Ternofsky has been identified as the Senior Independent Director.
The non executive directors have made arrangements to meet at least annually without the Chairman present, in order to 
review and evaluate the performance of the board, its principal committees and the Chairman. The non executive directors 
seek, and take into account, the views of the Chief Executive in carrying out this review.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent advice at the group's expense. The board 
meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision. The board has established three committees 
with defined terms of reference as detailed below. The terms of reference of each of these committees are available on our 
website www.careuk.com.
Eleven board meetings were held during the year. Attendance at these meetings is disclosed on page 36 of this annual report.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by James Strachan and also comprises Fritz Ternofsky, Michael Averill and Miles Roberts. 
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the executive directors, including the granting of share awards and service 
contracts. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available at the annual general meeting on 11 February 2009 
to answer any questions regarding remuneration. The directors' remuneration report appears on pages 37 to 42.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises John Nash, Miles Roberts, Fritz Ternofsky, James Strachan, Michael Averill and Mike Parish 
and is chaired by John Nash. The principal function of the Committee is to lead the process for board appointments by reviewing 
at least annually the structure, size and composition of the board and making recommendations with regard to any changes. 
This includes evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board and an annual review of the time 
required from, and performance evaluation of, non executive directors. In doing so the Committee gives full consideration 
to succession planning in the context of the challenges and opportunities facing the group.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Miles Roberts and also comprises Fritz Ternofsky and Michael Averill. The Committee has 
direct access to the group's external and internal auditor and liaises with executive management to review the effectiveness 
of internal controls.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the group's financial statements. The Committee 
is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the board in 
relation to the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the external auditor. It is responsible for ensuring that an 
appropriate relationship between the group and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing non audit services 
and fees. The group has agreed a policy on non audit work, which sets out monetary limits for work that may be undertaken 
by the external auditor, in order to safeguard audit independence. The Committee also reviews annually the group's systems 
of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group. The Committee reviews its 
terms of reference and its effectiveness annually and recommends to the board any changes required as a result of the review. Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 36
Report on corporate governance
continued
The board of directors continued
Audit Committee continued
In 2008, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
A  reviewing the group's draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to board approval and reviewing 
the external auditor's detailed reports thereon;
A reviewing the appropriateness of the group's accounting policies;
A  reviewing the potential impact on the group's financial statements of certain matters such as impairments of intangible 
and tangible fixed asset values and proposed International Financial Reporting Standards;
A  reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing those non audit fees payable to the group's external auditor 
that require Committee approval;
A  reviewing the external auditor's plan for the audit of the group's financial statements which included key risks on 
the financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms 
of engagement for the audit; and
A  reviewing an annual report on the group's systems of internal control and its effectiveness and reporting to the board 
on the results of the review.
Relations with shareholders
The board understands the need for communication with both institutional and private shareholders. In addition to general 
presentations after the publication of the group's interim and final results the Chief Executive and Finance Director meet 
regularly with fund managers, analysts and institutional investors. The company's annual general meeting provides a forum 
for all shareholders to attend and put questions to the board. All resolutions are proposed separately. All results statements, 
company announcements and investor presentations are accessible to all shareholders via the group's website, www.careuk.com. 
Board attendance
The table below shows the number of potential board and committee meetings for each current director, as well as the number 
of meetings actually attended, during the year ended 30 September 2008. 
 Scheduled board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee 
 meetings meetings meetings meetings
         
Director  Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
John Nash  11   10         1 1
Mike Parish  11 11         1 1
Paul Humphreys  11 11            
Fritz Ternofsky  11 11 3 3 2 1 1 1
Miles Roberts  11 11 3 3 2 2 1 1
Michael Averill  11 11 3 3 2 2 1 1
James Strachan  11 9     2 2 1 1