 Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
27 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
RePoRt oN CoRPoRA te GoveRNANCe
FOR THE yEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEmBER 2009
The directors acknowledge the principles set out in the Combined Code issued in 2006 by the Committee on Corporate Governance and intend 
to comply with the main provisions thereof. The company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year.
The company applies the principles of the Combined Code in the following ways:
internal control
The directors are responsible for the group's system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control systems are designed 
to meet the group's particular needs and manage the risks to which it is exposed, and by its nature can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that the directors review the effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls. This requirement extends this review 
to cover all controls, including:
U financial;
U operational;
U compliance; and
U risk management.
The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group, that has been in place 
for the year under review, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the directors, and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The group operates in the care sector, one of the most closely monitored and regulated areas of business. Its services are subject to external inspections 
by registration and other authorities, which are followed up by publicly available reports. It also regularly conducts its own internal inspections.
With regard to financial matters, the group operates within a control environment, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the safeguarding 
of assets against unauthorised use or disposition, the maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information used within 
the business or for publication. 
Key established procedures are:
U the definition of the organisation structure and the appropriate delegation of responsibility to operational management;
U the definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise;
U written operational procedures;
U  a system of financial reporting encompassing an annual budget, updated forecasts and the monthly reporting of actual results measured against 
both budget and forecast; and
U  the regular assessment of risks facing the business and the reporting of operational performance to the board, including internal and external 
clinical audit reports.
The group's Finance Director oversees the group's risk assessment process. The senior management of the operating divisions regularly reviews the systems 
of internal control in their respective divisions, which are supported by assessments of key business risks, controls and resulting exposures, and confirms 
its compliance with them. These assessments are reviewed by the Finance Director and are subsequently reported to the group Executive Committee 
and the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, primarily reviewing the systems of internal control and risk management, 
and the audit process. The external auditor attends all relevant meetings.
The group has in place a formal internal audit function. The function reports to the Finance Director but with direct access to the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee approves the annual internal audit strategy and plan and approves the amount of resources allocated to the internal audit function.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls utilising, inter alia, the procedures identified above.
_6_CUK_ar09_section2_governance.indd   6 18/12/2009   14:53:20 28 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Going concern
After making enquiries the directors, at the time of approving the financial statements, have formed the judgement that the group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
The statement of directors' responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is set out on page 35. 
the board of directors
At 30 September 2009 the board comprised the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the managing Director of Social Care 
and three non-executive directors. The directors' biographies appear on pages 20 and 21 and detail their experience ensuring an effective board 
to lead and manage the group. All of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, are considered by the board as being independent, 
and michael Averill has been identified as the Senior Independent Director.
The non-executive directors have made arrangements to meet at least annually without the Chairman present, in order to review and evaluate 
the performance of the board, its principal committees and the Chairman. The non-executive directors seek, and take into account, the views 
of the Chief Executive in carrying out this review.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent advice at the group's expense. The board meets regularly and has adopted 
a schedule of matters reserved for its decision. The board has established three committees with defined terms of reference as detailed below. The terms 
of reference of each of these committees are available on our website, www.careuk.com.
Ten board meetings were held during the year. Attendance at these meetings is disclosed on page 29 of this annual report.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by James Strachan and also comprises michael Averill and miles Roberts. The Committee recommends the 
remuneration of the executive directors, including the granting of share awards and service contracts. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
will be available at the Annual General meeting on 10 February 2010 to answer any questions regarding remuneration. The directors' remuneration 
report appears on pages 30 to 34.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises John Nash, miles Roberts, James Strachan, michael Averill and mike Parish and is chaired by John Nash. 
The principal function of the Committee is to lead the process for board appointments by reviewing at least annually the structure, size and composition 
of the board and making recommendations with regard to any changes. This includes evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on 
the board and an annual review of the time required from, and performance evaluation of, non-executive directors. In doing so the Committee gives 
full consideration to succession planning in the context of the challenges and opportunities facing the group.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by miles Roberts and also comprises michael Averill. Fritz Ternofsky was also a member of the Committee until his 
retirement. A further member of the Committee will be appointed following the recruitment of another non-executive director. The Committee has 
direct access to the group's external and internal auditor and liaises with executive management to review the effectiveness of internal controls.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the group's financial statements. The Committee is responsible for monitoring 
the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and remuneration 
of the external auditor. It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the group and the external auditor is maintained, including 
reviewing non-audit services and fees. The group has agreed a policy on non-audit work, which sets out monetary limits for work that may be undertaken 
by the external auditor, in order to safeguard audit independence. The Committee also reviews annually the group's systems of internal control and the 
processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group. The Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness annually and 
recommends to the board any changes required as a result of the review.
_6_CUK_ar09_section2_governance.indd   7 18/12/2009   14:53:20 Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
29 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
the board of directors continued
Audit Committee continued
In 2009, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
U  reviewing the group's draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to board approval and reviewing the external auditor's detailed 
reports thereon;
U reviewing the appropriateness of the group's accounting policies;
U  reviewing the potential impact on the group's financial statements of certain matters such as impairments of intangible and tangible fixed asset 
values and proposed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS );
U reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing those non-audit fees payable to the group's external auditor that require Committee approval;
U  reviewing the external auditor's plan for the audit of the group's financial statements which included key risks on the financial statements, 
confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit; and
U reviewing an annual report on the group's systems of internal control and its effectiveness and reporting to the board on the results of the review.
Relations with shareholders
The board understands the need for communication with both institutional and private shareholders. In addition to general presentations after the 
publication of the group's interim and final results, the Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with fund managers, analysts and institutional 
investors. The company's Annual General meeting provides a forum for all shareholders to attend and put questions to the board. All resolutions are 
proposed separately. All results statements, company announcements and investor presentations are accessible to all shareholders via the group's website, 
www.careuk.com. 
Board attendance
The table below shows the number of potential board and committee meetings for each current director, as well as the number of meetings actually 
attended, during the year ended 30 September 2009. 
 Scheduled  Audit  Remuneration  Nominations  
 board meetings  Committee meetings  Committee meetings  Committee meetings
Director  Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
John Nash  10  10         1 1
mike Parish  10 10         1 1
Paul Humphreys  10 9            
Doug Umbers  1 1            
michael Averill  10 10 3 3 1 1 1 1
miles Roberts  10 9 3 3 1 1 1 1
James Strachan  10 10     1 1 1 1
Fritz Ternofsky  6 5 2 2     1 1
_6_CUK_ar09_section2_governance.indd   8 18/12/2009   14:53:20