 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
Review Governance Financial statements
Board meetings
The Board meets in formal session regularly, usually once a month, 
and members are supplied with fi nancial and operational information 
in good time for scrutiny in advance of these meetings.
The directors attended the following meetings in the year to 
30 September 2009.
   Audit Remuneration 
  Board Committee Committee
Farouq Sheikh 10 3 -
Richard Steeves 10 3 1
Haroon Sheikh 10 - -
David Spink (resigned 31 December 2008) 1 - -
David Pugh (appointed 9 December 2008) 10 - -
Stewart Wallace 9 - -
Karl Monaghan 9 3 1
Christa Echtle (appointed 15 October 2008) 10 3 1
Board decision-making responsibilities
Matters which are reserved to the Board for specifi c consideration 
and decision include:
 
  fi nancial reporting and controls including statutory matters such 
as the approval of fi nal and interim fi nancial statements and 
dividend declarations;
 
  Board membership and other senior key personnel appointments;
 
  review of corporate governance arrangements;
 
  Group strategy matters including the approval of annual budgets, 
signifi cant acquisitions and disposals;
 
  review and supervision of treasury and fi nancial policies; and
 
  Shareholder communications. 
Matters are delegated to Board committees, individual directors or 
executive management where appropriate. The directors believe the 
Board is soundly constituted although, at this stage of the Group's 
development, it is felt the functions of a Nomination Committee 
can be adequately fulfi lled by deliberation of the full Board; this will 
nevertheless be kept under review.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Karl Monaghan (Chairman), 
Farouq Sheikh, Richard Steeves and Christa Echtle. The Group 
Finance Director and representatives of the external auditors 
attend meetings by invitation as required. The Committee meets 
at least twice each year and receives reports from the Company's 
management and external auditors relating to the annual and 
interim accounts and the accounting and internal control systems 
throughout the Group. The Committee has direct and unrestricted 
access to the external auditors and reviews all services being 
provided by them to evaluate their independence and objectivity, 
taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory 
requirements in order to ensure that independence and objectivity 
are not impaired by the provision of permissible, non-audit services. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year, 
for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the fi nancial 
statements.
Compliance with Combined Code
CareTech is committed to achieving the highest standards of 
business practice, ethics and professionalism throughout its 
national operations. 
The Company's shares are traded on AIM and, as such, the Company 
is under no obligation to comply with the full requirements of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006. 
However, the Board is accountable to the Company's Shareholders 
for ensuring effective governance and therefore strives to implement 
policies and procedures aimed at Code compliance as far as is 
reasonably practicable.
The Board of directors
At 30 September 2009 the Board comprised the Executive Chairman, 
the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Strategic 
Director and 3 non-executive directors. The directors' biographies 
appear on page 14 and details their experience and suitability for 
leading and managing the Group. 
Richard Steeves, Karl Monaghan and Christa Echtle are the 
3 non-executive directors and the Board considers each of them 
as independent for the purpose of the Combined Code. Richard 
Steeves is the non-executive Deputy Chairman and the senior 
independent non-executive director.
In the furtherance of their duties, all directors are able to take 
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company 
and those newly-appointed are made aware of their responsibilities 
by the Company Secretary. The Board approves the appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at 
least every three years and new Directors are subject to election by 
shareholders at the fi rst opportunity following their appointment.
Confl icts of interest
At the Annual General Meeting held in February 2008, amendments 
to the Company's Articles of Association were approved to refl ect 
certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to confl icts of 
interest that came into force on 1 October 2008, enabling the Board 
to authorise confl icts or potential confl icts of interest.
The Board will follow a specifi c procedure when deciding whether 
to authorise a confl ict or potential confl ict of interest. Firstly, only 
independent directors (i.e. those that have no interest in the matter 
under consideration) will be able to take the relevant decision. 
Secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they 
consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Company's 
success. In addition, the directors will be able to impose limits or 
conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate. 
It is the Board's intention to report annually on the Company's 
procedures for ensuring that the Board's power of authorisation 
of confl icts are operated effectively and that procedures have 
been followed. 
Corporate Governance Report
Governance Financial statements 18 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance Report
continued
A process of control and hierarchical reporting has been 
established which provides for a documented and auditable trail 
of accountability. These procedures are relevant across all Group 
operations: they provide for successive assurances to be given at 
increasingly higher levels of management and, fi nally, to the Board.
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls include the following:
 
  annual budgets are prepared for each operating business. Monthly 
management reporting focuses on actual performance against 
these budgets for each operating business;
 
  management reports and external audit reports on the system of 
internal controls and any material control weaknesses that are 
identifi ed;
 
  discussions with management including discussions on the actions 
taken on problem areas identifi ed by Board members or in the 
external audit reports;
 
  policies and procedures for such matters as delegation of 
authorities, capital expenditure and treasury management as well 
as regular updates; 
 
  review of the adequacy of the level of experienced and 
professional staff throughout the business and the expertise of 
individual staff members so that they are capable of carrying out 
their individual delegated responsibilities; and 
 
 review of the external audit work plans.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries the directors have reasonable 
expectations that the Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully and has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the 
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
fi nancial statements.
By order of the Board
David Pugh
Company Secretary
9 December 2009
Leighton House 
33-37 Darkes Lane
Potters Bar
Hertfordshire
EN6 1BB
Remuneration Committee
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is set out 
in the Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 21. Also detailed in that 
report are directors' remuneration, shareholdings and share option 
scheme information.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board understands that effective communication with the 
Company's Shareholders and the investment community as a whole 
is a key objective.
It recognises that the views of both institutional and private 
Shareholders are important and that they have an interest in the 
Company's strategy, reputation and performance. 
The Executive Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring 
this communication is effectively discharged and for making the 
Board fully aware of key Shareholders' views, comments and 
opinions. General presentations to major Shareholders following the 
publication of the Group's annual and interim results are conducted 
by the Executive Chairman and the Group Finance Director as 
are regular meetings with fund managers and investment analysts 
through the year. 
All Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company's Annual 
General Meeting, which all Board members attend, as this provides 
an opportunity to address questions to the directors.
The Group's annual and interim reports are sent to all 
Shareholders and all results, Company announcements and related 
investor information can be accessed via the Group's website, 
www.caretech-uk.com. The website is under constant review in an 
effort to maximise the effectiveness of information made available 
to Shareholders.
Internal controls and risk management
The Group has established processes and procedures for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Group. 
These processes have been in place for the year under review 
and up to the date of approval of this annual report and fi nancial 
statements. The processes and procedures will be regularly reviewed 
by the Board. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of 
internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The role of 
management is to implement Board policies on risk and control. 
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business 
objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.