 Corporate Governance
Introduction
The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate
governance. This report and the Remuneration Report set out on pages
16 to 19 explain how the Company complies with the key corporate
guidance set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Company has been in compliance with the requirements of the
Combined Code and the Turnbull Report throughout the period.
Board
The Company has a well-balanced Board. There are five Executive
Directors and, after the appointment of Martin Dawes on 2 June 2003,
there are six Non-Executive Directors. Directors' names and brief
biographies are set out on page 12. There were no changes to the
Board in the period, except the appointment of Hans Roger Snook
became effective on 1 May 2002.
Hans Roger Snook is the Chairman, Charles Dunstone is Chief Executive
Officer and Sir Brian Pitman is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers that, other than Hans Roger Snook and 
Martin Dawes, each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent of
management and free from any business or other relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The majority of Non-Executive Directors are therefore independent.
Hans Roger Snook is not considered independent due to the fact that he
holds 1 million share options in the Company. Martin Dawes is currently
not considered independent because as a previous shareholder of Opal
Telecom plc which was acquired by the Group in November 2002, he is
entitled to receive part of any additional consideration payable in respect of
Opal's performance in the two financial periods ending 27 March 2004.
The Board will review his independence at the end of such period.
The Board meets at least ten times a year, receiving key briefing papers
before each meeting. The Board is responsible to the shareholders for
the proper management of the Company and its subsidiaries. It sets 
out and monitors the Group's strategy, reviews its trading performance,
examines major capital expenditure, formulates policy on key issues,
ensures adequate funding and reports to shareholders where appropriate.
The Board has underlined its commitment to internal control in the
Group by setting clear operating guidelines for all of its businesses, and
monitoring key performance indicators and risks on a monthly basis.
Board Committees
The Board has established three principal committees to consider
various aspects of the Group's operations in more detail than would 
be the case within full Board meetings. Details of the members of each
committee are given on page 13.
IAudit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors and is
chaired by Adrian Martin. The Committee meets at least three times
a year together with the Group's internal audit and risk management
team and the Group's external auditors. Terms of reference for the
Committee include reviewing the annual accounts and interim
statements, ensuring compliance with generally accepted
accounting principles and satisfying itself as to the adequacy and
effectiveness of the Group's internal control procedures. It receives
reports from both internal and external auditors on a regular basis.
II Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-Executive
Directors and is chaired by John Gildersleeve. The Committee
meets at least twice a year. Terms of reference include making
recommendations to the Board on the Group's framework of
executive remuneration and determining on behalf of the Board
specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and
senior management. It also approves contractual terms and
incentives including executive share option awards for Executive
Directors and senior management. The Remuneration Report is set
out on pages 16 to 19.
III Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors
and David Ross and is chaired by Des Wilson. It advises generally
on Board appointments and the composition of the Board. 
It advised the Board on the appointment of Martin Dawes as 
a Non-Executive Director.
During the period the Nomination Committee also proposed, 
and the Company adopted, a policy that each Non-Executive
Director should serve a maximum of two three year terms of office,
unless there are exceptional circumstances for their continued
appointment. Non-Executive Directors will continue to be subject 
to re-election every three years and will be entitled to no
compensation for loss of office.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders, primarily in the periods following announcements of
results. The importance of maintaining this dialogue is recognised 
in order to ensure that the Group's strategy is understood and that
concerns are addressed in a constructive way.
The Annual General Meeting will be used as a forum to communicate
with individual investors and is an opportunity to raise with the Directors
issues concerning the Group's operations and performance. Investor
information including financial results, press releases and management
presentations are available on cpwplc.com.
Accountability and Audit
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for systems of internal
control throughout the Group and for reviewing their effectiveness. 
The Board monitors all controls, including financial, operating and
compliance controls and risk management. The control systems in
place are designed to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against misstatement or loss and are designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Among the principal features of the Group's systems of internal 
control is a planning process within which the Board approves strategy
and a Group business plan. Managers of individual business units
prepare plans and budgets covering a two year period. These plans 
are challenged and approved by the Executive Board.
The Board receives comprehensive monthly information including
financial and business performance showing variances against budget
and key performance indicators. There is also a regular reforecasting
process in place.
Capital expenditure is subject to the disciplines of appraisal and
approval by appropriate levels of management.
14
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2003 The Audit Committee acts under delegated authority from the Board
and is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the
systems of internal control throughout the Group. During the period 
it was assisted in this work by the risk management team, covering
systems of internal control in the Group's substantive business units
and issues relating to the Group's central support functions.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been in place
for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual
Report and Accounts. This process is reviewed annually by the Board.
The process used by the Board through the Audit Committee and risk
management team includes the following:
  Review of the external and internal audit work plans;
  Regular review by the Board of a detailed risk management report;
  Consideration of reports from management and internal audit on 
the systems of internal control and any material control weaknesses;
  Discussions with management on the actions taken on areas
identified either by the Board or by internal or external audit or 
risk reports;
  Consideration of the performance of internal audit or the risk
management team together with an annual review of its resourcing,
skills and terms of reference; and
  Consideration of the appropriate Audit Committee minutes and
reporting of significant issues through the Audit Committee Chairman
to the Board.
Auditors
During the period the Group has had safeguards to ensure that the
objectivity and independence of its auditors could not be compromised.
In particular, the Group's procedures in respect of services provided 
by Deloitte & Touche are:
  Audit related services - these are areas of the Group's work that, 
in their position as the Group's auditors, Deloitte & Touche are 
best placed to undertake. Such work includes formalities relating to
borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, various other regulatory
reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
  Tax consulting - the Group uses Deloitte & Touche for certain tax
consulting projects, while other tax advice and services are provided
by other parties with experience in the relevant area.
  General consulting - all significant general consulting projects are
subject to Audit Committee review and approval. Deloitte & Touche
are only permitted to tender when the Audit Committee and Deloitte &
Touche are satisfied that the nature of the work presents no potential
threat to the independence of the audit team.
These safeguards have been approved by the Audit Committee 
and are regularly reviewed and updated in the light of internal and
external developments.
Deloitte & Touche report to the Directors and the Audit Committee 
on the actions they take to comply with relevant professional and
regulatory requirements and best practice to ensure their independence
from the Group.
15
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2003