 12 Annual Report 2013
22560.04 14 June 2013 4:32 PM Proof 9
Corporate g overnance
g eneral
Castings P .L.C. recognises the importance 
of high standards of Corporate 
Governance. The board has considered 
the principles and provisions of the 2010 
UK Corporate Governance Code and 
will continue to adhere to them where it 
is in the interests of the business, and of 
shareholders, to do so.
The manner in which the board provides 
leadership of the company within a 
framework of prudent and effective 
controls is set out in this section and also 
within the Remuneration report.
internal control
The board is ultimately responsible for 
the group's system of internal controls, 
including internal financial control, and 
for monitoring its effectiveness. There 
is a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the group which is 
regularly reviewed and has been in place 
throughout the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the annual 
report and accounts. However, such a 
system is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
The review covers all controls including 
financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management.
The directors confirm that they have 
established procedures necessary to 
implement the internal control guidance 
for directors such that they fully comply 
with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance 
Code for the accounting period ended on 
31 March 2013.
internal financial control
The directors are responsible for 
maintaining the group's systems of 
internal financial control. These controls 
are designed to both safeguard the 
group's assets and ensure the reliability 
of financial information used within the 
business and for publication. As with any 
such systems, controls can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
Internal financial control is operated within 
a clearly defined organisational structure 
with clear control responsibilities and 
authorities, and a practice throughout 
the group of regular management and 
board meetings to review all aspects of 
the group's businesses including those 
aspects where there is a potential risk to 
the group.
For each business there are regular 
weekly and monthly reports, reviewed by 
boards and management, which contain 
both written reports and accounts. The 
accounts include profit and loss accounts 
and balance sheets for the period under 
review, year to date and previous year and 
are compared with expected results. A 
variety of operational and financial ratios 
are also produced.
Continual monitoring of the systems of 
internal financial control is conducted by 
all management. The external auditors, 
who are engaged to express an opinion 
on the group accounts, also consider the 
systems of internal financial control to the 
extent necessary to express that opinion. 
The external auditors report the results 
of their work to management, including 
members of the board and the audit 
committee.
The board does not consider there is a 
need for an internal audit function due to 
the size and non-complexity of the group.
auditors' independence
The non-audit work undertaken in the 
year by the group auditors, BDO LLP , was 
restricted to an involvement in the review 
and submission of the tax computations 
and a review of the interim financial 
statements. The board is satisfied with 
the assessment that the auditors are 
independent.
environment
The board recognises that our operations 
have an effect on the local, regional and 
global environment, and as a consequence 
of this, the board is committed to adopting 
policies, processes and procedures which 
will lead to the continual improvement 
in environmental performance and the 
prevention of pollution.
Directors' conflicts of 
interest
A director has a statutory duty to avoid 
a situation in which he has, or can have, 
an interest that conflicts or possibly may 
conflict with the interests of the company. 
A director will not breach that duty if the 
relevant matter has been authorised in 
accordance with the Articles of Association 
by the other directors. 
The board has conducted a review of 
actual or possible conflicts of interest in 
respect of each director. At its meeting on 
22 May 2013, the board considered the 
process for identifying current conflicts, 
authorised conflicts that have been 
identified and stipulated conditions in 
accordance with the guiding principles and 
agreed a process to identify and authorise 
future conflicts. In practice, directors are 
asked to consider and disclose actual or 
potential conflicts at the beginning of each 
meeting and as and when a matter arises. 13 Annual Report 2013
22560.04 14 June 2013 4:32 PM Proof 9
Attendance at board and board committee meetings during the year is detailed in the table shown below:
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Director
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
B. J. Cooke 8 8        
D. J. Gawthorpe 8 8        
S. J. Mant 8 8        
M. A. Lewis 8 8        
G. Cooper 8 8        
A. Vicary 8 8        
C. P . King 8 8 2 2 1 1
G. B. Wainwright 8 7 2 1 1 1
A. N. Jones 8 8 2 2 1 1
The chairman communicates frequently with the non-executive and executive directors. Directors are also encouraged to discuss any issues 
or concerns with the chairman at any time throughout the year. The chairman also holds meetings with the non-executive directors without 
executives present.
The remuneration committee reviews the performance of the directors, including the chairman.
The non-executive directors appraise the chairman's performance.
Board of directors
The board meets regularly to monitor the 
current state of business and to determine 
its future strategic direction. During the 
year the board comprised six executive 
directors and three non-executive 
directors. The non-executive directors are 
independent of executive management 
and none of the non-executive directors 
participate in share option or other 
executive remuneration schemes nor do 
they qualify for pension benefits.
Although two of the non-executive 
directors have served for more than ten 
years their knowledge, advice and controls 
are still invaluable to the group.
Directors receive regular updates 
appropriate to the business throughout 
the year.
To assist with the conduct of their 
function, the non-executive directors 
are able to obtain professional advice 
at the company's expense if required in 
connection with their duties. In addition, 
all directors have access to the services of 
the company secretary.
Board committees
The principal committees established by 
the directors are:
audit committee
This committee comprises the three 
non-executive directors and is chaired 
by C. P. King. The finance director and 
other executive directors may also  
attend meetings as appropriate to the 
business in hand but are not members of 
the committee.
The committee meets at least twice a year 
and examines any matters relating to the 
financial affairs of the group including 
the review of annual and interim results, 
internal control procedures and accounting 
practices. The audit committee meets with 
the auditors periodically and as necessary.
r emuneration committee
As detailed in the remuneration report on 
page 15.
n omination committee
This committee comprises the three non-
executive directors and is chaired by  
G. B. Wainwright. The chairman may 
attend meetings as appropriate to the 
business in hand but is not a member of 
the committee. The committee did not 
meet during the year.
r elations with 
shareholders
The company holds meetings from time 
to time with institutional shareholders 
to discuss the company's strategy and 
financial performance. The Annual General 
Meeting is used to communicate with 
private and institutional investors. 14 Annual Report 2013
22560.04 14 June 2013 4:32 PM Proof 9
g oing concern
The directors have assessed the future 
funding requirements of the group and 
the company and compared them to the 
level of funding available. Details of the 
cash position are set out in note 19 to the 
accounts. The group's objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital, 
its financial risk management objectives, 
details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities, and its exposure to 
credit risk and liquidity risk are also set out 
in notes 17 and 19 to the accounts.
The directors' assessment included a 
review of the group's financial forecasts, 
and financial instruments for the 15 
months from the balance sheet date. The 
directors considered a range of potential 
scenarios within the key markets the group 
serves and how these may impact on cash 
flow. The group and company's business 
activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance 
and position are set out in the Chairman's 
Statement on page 2. The directors also 
considered what mitigating actions the 
group could take to limit any adverse 
consequences.
After making these enquiries, the directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the 
company and the group have adequate 
resources to continue operations for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
summary
The board takes its responsibilities 
seriously even though there are a number 
of areas in which it does not comply fully 
with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance 
Code. It does not feel that the size or 
complexity of the group and the way in 
which it governs would be enhanced 
or strengthened by further changing 
the already existing high standards of 
corporate governance practised.
For the year ended 31 March 2013 
the company complied with the 2010 UK 
Corporate Governance Code other than 
the following points:
    There were three non-executive 
directors during the year. 
Although two of these directors 
have served for more than ten years the  
board recognises the value they bring 
and believes it is important too that 
shareholders have the reassurance of 
non-executives on the board whose 
independence is beyond question. 
    The non-executive directors do not 
have specified term contracts.
    The chairman is also regarded as an 
executive director but on reduced 
hours. However, the chief executive 
is responsible for the day to day 
running of the group through the 
managing directors of each location. 
The chairman concentrates on the 
effective working of the board and 
overall group strategies and remains 
a high level contact with our main 
customers. 
    The role of the financial director and 
company secretary are fulfilled by 
the same person as there is no one 
else within the group qualified to do 
the job and it would not be a full-
time position. The board monitors 
the effectiveness of this arrangement 
annually.
    There is no formal arrangement 
whereby staff may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting or other matters. The 
visibility of directors within the 
business is considered sufficient to 
enable any such issues to be raised.
These are considered appropriate in 
relation to the size of the company and the 
way in which it operates.
By order of the board
s. J. Mant
Company Secretary
12 June 2013
Corporate g overnance
continued