 Central Networks West plc (Formerly Aquila Networks plc)  
Year ended 31 March 2004   
 
 8
2.  Corporate governance  
 
This corporate governance statement for Central Networks West plc ( the company ) covers the 
period from 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2004. On 16 January 2004, Aquila Sterling Ltd, the 
company's intermediate UK holding company was acquired by E.ON.AG. With immediate effect 
the existing board of directors resigned and was replaced by directors appointed by Powergen 
UK plc. Also from this date the company began operating in accordance with Powergen UK plc 
and Central Networks East plc policies and procedures, including those relating to risk 
management. Accordingly, where the relevant policies and procedures are materially different 
this statement describes both those operating during the period from 1 April 2003 to 14 January 
2004, and those covering the remainder of the year.  
 
For the remainder of this section the term Group  is defined as being either the Midlands 
Electricity plc group of companies or the Powergen UK plc group of companies, depending upon 
the period in question. Similarly the term Board  refers to the board of either Midlands Electricity 
plc or Powergen UK plc. 
 
 
Ownership and overall governance 
 
For the period to 15 January 2004, the company was a wholly owned subsidiary of Midlands 
Electricity plc.  Midlands Electricity's ultimate holding company in the UK was Aquila Sterling Ltd.  
The operating activities of Aquila Sterling Limited were undertaken by the Midlands Electricity 
Plc group of companies.  The Boards of Aquila Sterling Limited, Avon Energy Partners Holdings 
and Midlands Electricity Plc supported the highest standards of corporate governance, and 
whilst there is no statutory requirement for the Group or company to comply with the Combined 
Code, it has, wherever practical, followed the spirit of the Code throughout the period to 15 
January 2004. 
 
On 16 January 2004 E.ON AG became the ultimate holding company of the company, and 
whilst there is still no requirement for the company to be strictly bound by the Combined Code, it 
complies with all aspects of the code relevant to its business activities. 
 
Board composition 
 
The board of Midlands Electricity Plc comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and 
three Non-Executive Directors. The Board, collectively, is responsible for Group policy and 
strategic matters and for securing the optimum performance from its assets.  The Board met 
every quarter. The Executive Directors met as necessary to discuss in detail matters arising from 
the day to day operations of the company. The Non-Executive Directors drew upon their different 
backgrounds and wide-ranging commercial and professional expertise to maintain a balance 
between the interests of the Group's customers, employees and the community at large.  None 
of the Non-Executive Directors had any responsibility for the day to day management of the 
company's business. The Board of Central Networks West plc comprised two Directors. 
 
Following the acquisition by E.ON.AG, the board of directors resigned and were immediately 
replaced by directors appointed by Powergen UK plc. The Central Networks West plc board 
currently comprises three directors and reflects a range of experience and expertise.  There are 
no non-executive or independent directors.  The board normally meets as required, principally to 
approve financial statements and business plans.  Under Group procedures, nominees for the 
board are formally approved by the company following authorisation by Powergen UK plc.  
Board directors are not subject to retirement and re-election.  Central Networks West plc does 
not have an Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee or Nomination Committee. 
 
  Central Networks West plc (Formerly Aquila Networks plc)  
Year ended 31 March 2004   
 
 9
Corporate Governance (Continued) 
 
Management Structure 
 
Prior to 16 January 2004, the operations of the company were controlled through the Distribution 
leadership team which comprised, the Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer, Regulation 
Director, Asset Management Director, Engineering Services Director, HR Director and 
Distribution Finance Manager. The Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer were members 
of the Central Networks West plc board. 
 
From 16 January, the operations of the company are controlled through the Distribution 
leadership team which manages both the company and Central Networks East plc. This team 
comprises the Managing Director Distribution, Customer and Network Operations Manager, 
Infrastructure Services Manager, New Business Manager, Network Strategy and Regulation 
Manager, IS Manager, Human Resources Manager, Legal Counsel and Head of Distribution 
Finance.  The Managing Director is a member of the Central Networks West plc board.  The 
distribution leadership team meets on a monthly basis and covers all areas of Central Networks 
West plc business and activities. 
 
Going concern 
 
After making appropriate enquires the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future.  For this reason they continue to adopt the  going concern' basis in preparing the 
company's financial statements. 
 
Internal control 
 
Throughout the period, the company has operated a system of internal controls, the key features 
of which have been maintained following acquisition by E.ON.AG.  This system is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.  It 
complies with  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' (the Turnbull 
guidance) published in September 1999.  The key elements of the company's system of internal 
control are set out in the paragraphs below. 
 
Control environment 
 
The company's organisational structure includes clear lines of responsibility. Commercial, 
accounting and ethical procedures are communicated to employees throughout the Group. 
 
Identification of business risks 
 
The Group's management has a clear responsibility for identifying the risks facing each of the 
Group's businesses and for developing systems and procedures to mitigate and monitor such 
risks.  Standard risk management techniques have been embedded in the Group's businesses.  
Each business reports on its key risks, the embedded controls to mitigate those risks and the 
resultant residual risk.   These risks are monitored on a day to day basis by members of the 
senior management team and, prior to 16 January 2004, enabled significant concerns to be 
discussed with the Non-Executive Directors at Board meetings. From 16 January 2004, risks 
and action plans are also reported to Powergen's UK business team who review risk for 
Powergen UK plc. Central Networks West plc (Formerly Aquila Networks plc)  
Year ended 31 March 2004  
 
 10
Corporate Governance (Continued) 
 
Main corporate information systems 
 
The company's accounting procedures are set out in various policy and procedural documents.   
The company operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system, which as a 
matter of routine, compares actual out-turn to budget.  This system continues to be used. 
Management accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.  Variances from plan are investigated 
and updated forecasts are prepared as necessary.  Cash flow forecasts are prepared on a 
regular basis to ensure that both the Group and company have adequate funds and resources 
for the foreseeable future. 
 
Main control procedures 
 
Management has established control procedures in response to the key risks identified.  
Standard financial control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the 
Group's financial statements.  There are established procedures in place for the authorisation of 
expenditure. 
 
Monitoring system used by the Board 
 
The Board reviews and approves budgets and monitors the company's performance against 
these budgets on a monthly basis.  Variances from the expected out-turn are investigated fully 
and should lapses in internal control be detected, these are rectified.  The company's cash flow 
is also monitored by the Board. 
 
Internal Audit 
 
Throughout the period the company has been subject to scrutiny by Internal Audit. For the 
period to January 15 2004, the internal audit function was managed within Midlands Electricity 
plc and reported to the Chief Financial Officer of Midlands. From 16 January 2004, responsibility 
for the internal audit function was transferred to Powergen UK plc. 
 
The internal audit plan of work is determined following an evaluation of key commercial and 
financial risks.  Internal audit issues are reported as an agenda item for consideration by the 
Board. Under that item the Board considers: the key accounting policies, practices and financial 
accounts, giving particular attention to the need for these to comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and best practice; the suitability and effectiveness of the Group's internal controls; 
the reliability of internal financial information available for decision making; and the work 
programme and findings of Internal Audit. Control issues raised during the period have been 
monitored to ensure that they have been resolved or are being addressed.  The Board also 
considers the findings of the external Auditors and takes appropriate action.  The Board has 
agreed Terms of Reference for an Audit Committee.  
 
Political and charitable donations 
 
CNW did not make any political or charitable donations to political parties in 2003/04. 
 
Compliance with regulatory matters 
 
The company has a department dedicated to ensuring compliance with the terms of its 
Distribution Licence, that all regulatory returns are made, and that these accurately reflect 
relevant information.  Where returns to the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (OFGEM) 
require significant judgement or are sensitive because of the values or nature of the information 
disclosed, approval is sought from the Board. 