 chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012
Stock code: CMH
23
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
Corporate Governance
Principles of good governance
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and although The Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules which incorporate the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code ) are not mandatory for AIM quoted companies, it has applied the main principles set out in the Code as described 
below and in the Directors' Remuneration Report, in a manner appropriate to the size and nature of the Group.
The Board and its committees:
(a) The Board
The Board normally comprises a non-executive Chairman, two other non-executive Directors and at least two executive Directors. The Directors 
(including non-executive Directors) have a range of experience and are of su cient calibre to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, 
performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group. The Board meets at least eight times a year and additionally 
when necessary. At each scheduled meeting of the Board, the Chief Executive reports on the Group's operations and the Finance Director reports on 
the financial position of the Group. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers 
are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings. In addition the Board has adopted standard procedures and 
practices whereby significant issues a ecting the Group are reviewed on a regular basis. 
All non-executive Directors are considered to be independent by the Board. Keith Butler-Wheelhouse is the independent non-executive Chairman and 
Keith Jackson is the senior independent non-executive Director. There is a schedule of matters which are reserved for decision by the Board and matters 
which are delegated to the various Board committees or to the executive Directors, along with monetary levels of authority for capital expenditure and 
other financial commitments.
Following the appointment of new Directors, an appropriately tailored induction programme is arranged and the training needs of Directors are 
regularly considered. If appropriate, all Directors have the authority to take independent legal advice and have direct access to the Company Secretary. 
Evaluation of the performance of the Board and evaluation of the performance of individual Directors is conducted regularly on an annual cycle.
(b) Chairman and Chief Executive
The Chairman of the Company is an independent non-executive Director who is responsible for the running of the Board. The Board is responsible to 
shareholders for the overall direction and control of the Company, and the Chief Executive is responsible to the Board for management of the Company 
within the parameters set by the Board. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
(c) Supply of information
The Board is satisfied that it is provided with information in an appropriate form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties. 
(d) Appointments to the Board
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board generally and on the balance between executive 
and non-executive Directors. It also makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and subsequent reappointments on retirement by 
rotation. It comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive. The Chairman of the Committee is Keith Butler-Wheelhouse.
(e) Re-election of Directors
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 July 2012 (see the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 74 to 75), all Directors will retire and, 
being eligible, o er themselves for re-election. Notwithstanding that Article 94 of the Articles of Association requires only of a selection of the Directors 
to retire by rotation, the Directors have taken the decision to apply the good corporate governance provisions of the Code in respect of the re-election 
of Directors as it applies to FTSE 350 companies and consequently to require all Directors to be subject to re-election.
(f) Directors' remuneration
The statement of the Company's policy on executive Directors' remuneration and details of Directors' emoluments and service contracts are contained 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 29. chamberlin plc
24
(g) Relations with shareholders
Members of the Board hold meetings from time to time with major shareholders to discuss the Company's strategy and financial performance. These 
are usually held after the public announcement of results each 6 months and usually involve the Company's brokers, through whom feedback from 
institutional investors is obtained as necessary.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with all private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
(h) Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which consists of the three non-executive Directors, Keith Jackson (Chairman), Keith Butler-Wheelhouse and Alan Howarth, 
meets at least twice per year with the external Auditors in attendance when required. It has formal terms of reference and it assists the Board in 
ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, financial systems, internal controls and compliance procedures are in place. It also reviews the relationship 
between the Group and the external Auditors in terms of the provision of non-audit services and ensuring that auditor independence and objectivity is 
maintained. The Auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. A formal whistle-blowing  policy is in operation, providing direct 
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in relation to any concerns sta  may have concerning the propriety of Group operations and activities. 
No issues or incidents have come to light as a result of this policy. 
All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated member, the 
overriding consideration being to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impact the external Auditor's independence and objectivity.
(i) Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the three non-executive Directors. Further details are shown in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
(j) Annual General Meeting
All Directors expect to attend the Annual General Meeting and to be available to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
(k) Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its e ectiveness in accordance with the guidance set out in the 
Code. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Code has a requirement that the Directors review the e ectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. This includes internal financial controls 
and controls over financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Directors of each business are required to complete an annual internal 
control questionnaire, which when combined with regular reviews gives the Board confidence that internal controls are e ective. 
The Group also operates a risk management process whereby each business identifies its key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their potential 
impact, and action needed to manage them. This is carried out as a specific exercise as part of the annual budgeting process, but is also part of the day 
to day management process of each business. The Group has established procedures for planning and budgeting and monitoring the operational and 
financial performance of all businesses in the Group, as well as their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These procedures include:
 Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for good financial controls in the production of accurate and timely financial 
management information.
 The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
 Detailed monthly budgeting and reporting of trading results, balance sheets and cash flows with regular reviews of variances from budgets by 
management and the Board.
 Reporting on compliance with internal financial controls and procedures by each individual business unit under the supervision of the Group Finance 
Director and at the year end by external Auditors. Interim and Annual Reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to issue.
Corporate Governance continued chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012
Stock code: CMH
25
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a Group internal audit function. The Board considers that the control systems and procedures 
currently undertaken by the Group are adequately performed by the management and that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate internal 
audit function would be an appropriate or cost e ective method of ensuring compliance with Group policies. It therefore does not currently propose to 
introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be kept under review as part of the Board's assessment of the Group's systems of internal control.
Summary of attendance at meetings
Board 
meetings
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Number of meetings in the year 11152
Keith Butler-Wheelhouse (appointed 1 March 2012) 1   1  
Tom Brown (retired 29 February 2012) 8142
Keith Jackson 11152
Alan Howarth 10152
Tim Hair 11 1 n/a n/a
Mark Bache 11 n/a n/a n/a
n/a - Indicates that a Director was not a member of a particular committee.
By order of the Board
Mark Bache
Secretary
21 May 2012