 23360.02   19 June 2014 2:05 PM    proof 4
(g) Relations with shareholders
 Members of the Board hold meetings from time to time with major shareholders to discuss the Company's strategy and financial performance. 
These are usually held after the public announcement of results each six months and usually involve the Company's brokers, through whom 
feedback from institutional investors is obtained as necessary.
 The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with all private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
(h) Audit Committee
 The Audit Committee, which consists of the three non-executive Directors, Keith Jackson (Chairman), Keith Butler-Wheelhouse and Alan 
Howarth, meets at least twice per year with the external auditors in attendance when required. It has formal terms of reference and it assists 
the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, financial systems, internal controls and compliance procedures are in place. It also 
reviews the relationship between the Group and the external auditors in terms of the provision of non-audit services and ensuring that auditor 
independence and objectivity is maintained. The auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. A formal whistle-
blowing  policy is in operation, providing direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in relation to any concerns staff may have 
concerning the propriety of Group operations and activities. No issues or incidents have come to light as a result of this policy. 
 All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated member, 
the overriding consideration being to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impact the external auditor's independence and 
objectivity.
(i) Remuneration Committee
 The Remuneration Committee comprises the three non-executive Directors. Further details are shown in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
(j) Annual General Meeting
All Directors expect to attend the Annual General Meeting and to be available to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
(k) Internal control
 The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in accordance with the guidance set out in 
the Code. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide 
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
 The Code has a requirement that the Company Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. This includes 
internal financial controls and controls over financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Directors of each business are required 
to complete internal control questionnaires, which when combined with regular reviews performed by members of the Group finance function, 
gives the Board confidence that internal controls are effective. There have been no identified significant control failings during the year. 
 The Group also operates a risk management process whereby each business identifies its key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their 
potential impact, and action needed to manage them. This is carried out as a specific exercise as part of the annual budgeting process, but is also 
part of the day-to-day management process of each business.
There is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group - this process has been in place throughout 
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and 
accords with the FRC Guidance on Internal Control.
www.chamberlin.co.uk
Stock code: CMH
15
14 Governance 23360.02   19 June 2014 2:05 PM    proof 4
Corporate 
Governance Report continued
(k) Internal control (continued)
 The Group has established procedures for planning and budgeting and monitoring the operational and financial performance of all businesses in 
the Group, as well as their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These procedures include:
   Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for good financial controls in the production of accurate and timely 
financial management information.
   The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
   Detailed monthly budgeting and reporting of trading results, balance sheets and cash flows with regular reviews of variances from budgets by 
management and the Board.
   Reporting on compliance with internal financial controls and procedures by each individual business unit under the supervision of the Group 
Finance Director and at the year end by external auditors. Interim and Annual Reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to issue.
 The Board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a Group internal audit function. The Board considers that the control systems and 
procedures currently undertaken by the Group are adequately performed by the management and that the Group has not yet reached a size 
where a separate internal audit function would be an appropriate or cost effective method of ensuring compliance with Group policies. It 
therefore does not currently propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be kept under review as part of the Board's 
assessment of the Group's systems of internal control.
Summary of attendance at meetings
Board meetings
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Number of meetings in the year 11 2 4 2
Keith Butler-Wheelhouse 11 2 4 2
Keith Jackson 11 2 4 2
Alan Howarth 11 2 4 2
Tim Hair (resigned 9 September 2013) 5 2 n/a n/a
Kevin Nolan (appointed 9 September 2013) 6   n/a n/a
David Roberts (appointed 1 September 2013) 6   n/a n/a
n/a - Indicates that a Director was not a member of a particular committee.
By order of the Board
David Roberts 
Company Secretary 
20 May 2014
chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 23360.02   19 June 2014 2:05 PM    proof 4
Directors' Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Company is registered in England and its registration number is 76928. 
(a) Employees
Staff numbers and associated costs are shown in note 5 to the accounts. The segmental split of the average number of employees is as follows:
 Year to
 31 March 
2014
 Year to
 31 March
2013
Foundries 306 337
Engineering 98 95
Head office* 9 9
Group 413 441
* Includes 3 non-executive Directors
The Group's employment policy includes a commitment to the principles of equal opportunity for all, and specifically prohibits discrimination 
of any type. Our policy is always to ensure that all persons are treated fairly irrespective of their colour, race, sex, sexual orientation, age or youth, 
religion, political beliefs, trade union membership or non-membership, marital and physical or mental status or any other factors including 
pregnancy and maternity. 
In particular, the Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be 
adequately fulfilled by a disabled person. We endeavour to provide those who have physical or mental disabilities with specific assistance, and 
arrangements are made to enable them to work for us wherever and whenever this is reasonably practical. We expect all employees to comply in 
every respect with the Group's employment policies at all times.
The Group has arrangements in place for the involvement of all employees in the activities of the business, including management/employee 
briefings, dialogue with trade union representatives and health and safety meetings. A Safety Policy is in place throughout the Group and all 
employees are required to be aware of their responsibilities under the Health and Safety at Work Act. A copy of the policy and all relevant Codes 
of Practice are available at the workplace. It is the policy of the Group to recognise that the training of employees is important to the efficiency 
of the business and each employee's welfare and safety. Promotion is encouraged within the organisation and it is Group policy to promote from 
within wherever this is appropriate.
(b) Environment
The Board recognises that our operations have an effect on the local, regional and global environment, and as a consequence of this, the Board is 
committed to continuous improvements in environmental performance and the prevention of pollution.
Specifically the Group has and will:
   comply with the requirements of all relevant environmental legislation, meeting any set emission limits and standards laid down, and use best 
available techniques in order to control impacts on the environment;
   maintain and develop environmental management policies and practices to continually monitor and progress the minimisation of the effects 
of the business on the environment. Environmental management is considered to be a key part of the business strategy at all levels within the 
Group;
   actively encourage the minimisation of waste from all aspects of the business and promote the benefits of recycling and re-use;
   as part of the Target 2010 climate change levy agreement, aim to meet the requirements to reduce energy use and emissions of carbon 
dioxide by increasing energy efficiency through all parts of the Group and to seek new opportunities of improving energy efficiency as part of 
the overall improvement of the business;
   consider environmental factors in respect of the growth of the business, seeking as far as is practical to reduce harmful environmental impacts 
and to integrate new developments into the local environment; and
   actively encourage the consideration of the environmental impact of all raw materials and services purchased by the business, and where 
practical to use the options with the least impact and to reduce the consumption of raw materials.
www.chamberlin.co.uk
Stock code: CMH
17
16 Governance