 CHAPELTHORPE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 14
Corporate governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. It is required to comply with the
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice (the  'Combined Code''), which are incorporated into the United Kingdom
Listing Authority Listing Rules.
There are 14 Principles in the Combined Code, covering the Board, Directors' Remuneration, Relations with Shareholders and
Accountability and Audit. The paragraphs below, together with the Board Report on Remuneration on pages 16 to 20, disclose how
these Principles are applied within the Company. The only requirements of the Combined Code with which the Company has not
complied during the year ended 31 March 2003 were Directors' notice periods (B.1.7), and number of Non-executive Directors
comprising the Audit Committee (D.3.1).
The Board
The Board of Directors comprises three Executive and two Non-executive Directors. At this time the Board believes its current size
and composition is sufficient and each Director has considerable knowledge and experience from both within and outside the
Group's spheres of business. The Non-executive Directors are independent of management. In accordance with the Articles of
Association of the Company, all Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment,
and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Mr A B Reeve is the senior independent Non-executive Director.
The Board has a schedule of reserved powers including corporate strategy, financial results, budgeting, dividend payments and
Board appointments. The full Board meets on a regular basis and in 2002/03 met ten times. The Board is supplied with financial
and other information in a timely manner. The form and content of this information is constantly reviewed.
Responsibility for implementing the Group's strategy is delegated to the Executive Committee, which meets monthly, and comprises
the Executive Directors and a senior Group executive. The Board discharges a number of its other duties through its Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has clear terms of reference, and is referred to elsewhere within this
report on corporate governance.
There is an agreed procedure whereby any of the Directors may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their
duties, at the Company's expense. All Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was established in 1994. It comprises the Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive and is chaired
by Mr J Standen. It is responsible for nominating candidates, for the approval of the Board, to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
Relations with shareholders
The Company complied with all the provisions of this section of the Combined Code throughout the year.
The Company has regular dialogue with institutional shareholders on a range of subjects, including Directors' remuneration, where
it believes this to be in the interests of shareholders generally. 
Accountability and audit
Directors' responsibilities
The Directors are required by company law to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
In preparing the accounts, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the accounts; and
  prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained which disclose with reasonable accuracy
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. The Directors also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Information published on the internet
is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
_1CHA_arb03.qxd  25/06/2003  09:06  Page 14 CHAPELTHORPE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 15
Corporate governance
Accountability and audit (continued)
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors consider the Company and the Group to have adequate resources to continue operations
for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt a going concern basis in the preparation of the accounts.
The Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee was established in 1994. It comprises the Group's Non-executive Directors, under the chairmanship
of Mr A B Reeve. The Committee meets as and when required, and at least three times per year. The Chief Executive, Finance
Director and Internal Control Manager may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee. The Company's auditors report
to the Committee and have direct access to the chairman of the Committee without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The minutes of the Committee are reported by the chairman of the Committee to the full Board and are formally recorded.
The Committee may examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group and to the Group's internal controls and
external audit. The Committee reviews the Report and Accounts and announcements, internal control procedures, accounting
policies, compliance with accounting standards, the appointment and fees of the Company's auditors and such other related
functions as the Board may require.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has responsibility for the system of internal control. Such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Directors, in part through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group's internal controls.
The Board confirms that it has operated the procedures necessary to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to the
achievement of the Group's strategic objectives and has thereby complied with the requirements of the Combined Code in respect
of internal control matters throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 and up to the date of approval of this Report and Accounts. 
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include:
  the Board's own formal twice-yearly review of risks and controls;
  formal quarterly reviews of risks and controls by subsidiaries;
  discussion of risk areas with subsidiary management during the process of reviewing and approving annual budgets;
  the review of internal and external audit plans; and
  the review of significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The chairman of the Audit Committee has personally reviewed progress with Combined Code compliance through a programme
of meetings with all of the Group's subsidiaries in the year ended 31 March 2003. 
Financial reporting and monitoring of operations
Members of the Board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and the operations of businesses within the Group.
There is a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board based on an annual budget, which is agreed by the Board
and supported by a detailed analysis of the related risks. Actual results for the Group as a whole and the individual businesses are
reviewed monthly against the budget together with key ratio analyses. Subsidiary and Group profit and cash flow forecasts are
revised and reviewed on a monthly basis.
Policies and procedures 
The Group's detailed procedures manual documents the Group's operational and financial principles, the minimum standards for
effective control and the financial and accounting policies to be applied. The procedures manual is applied by all subsidiaries and
any significant departures therefrom are considered by the Audit Committee.
The manual also details the Group's clearly defined and formalised requirements for control and approval of expenditure involving
capital or revenue.
In order to supplement the existing financial control mechanisms, the Group utilises a formal self-assessment procedure for
measuring financial risk. Operating units also complete self-certification reports confirming compliance with established financial
control procedures and the Group's procedures manual.
Internal audit
The Internal Control Manager operates to a work programme agreed with the Audit Committee, in liaison with the external
auditors. The programme includes monitoring of the Group's system of internal control and compliance with the procedures
manual. Results of the work are reported directly to the Audit Committee.
The Internal Control Manager consolidates and prioritises for the Board the updated financial and non-financial risk analyses
received from subsidiary management on a regular basis.
_1CHA_arb03.qxd  25/06/2003  09:06  Page 15