 Corporate governance
CHAPELTHORPE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 14
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. It is required to comply with the
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice (the Combined Code), which are incorporated into the United Kingdom
Listing Authority Rules.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with the provisions of good governance of Section 1 of the Combined Code
except for the items below:
  the Combined Code requires that Directors' service contract notice periods are set at one year or less. This matter has now been
addressed as detailed in the Board Report on Remuneration on page 16; and
  the Code requires that the Audit Committee should include a minimum of three Non-executive Directors. The Board has two
Non-executive Directors, both of whom are members of the Audit Committee.
In July 2003 the Financial Services Authority issued the revised Combined Code (the Revised Code). The Revised Code will first apply
to the Company in respect of the reporting year beginning on 1 April 2004. The Board is aware of the requirements of the Revised
Code and will measure and report on its compliance when issuing its Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005 and
subsequent years.
The Board
The Board of Directors comprises three Executive and two Non-executive Directors. At this time the Board believes its current size and
composition is sufficient and each Director has considerable knowledge and experience from both within and outside the Group's spheres
of business. The Non-executive Directors are independent of management. In accordance with the Articles of Association of the
Company, all Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election
thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Mr A B Reeve is the senior independent Non-executive Director.
The Board has a schedule of reserved powers including corporate strategy, financial results, budgeting, dividend payments and Board
appointments. The full Board meets on a regular basis and in 2003/04 met eleven times. The Board is supplied with financial and
other information in a timely manner. The form and content of this information is constantly reviewed.
Responsibility for implementing the Group's strategy is delegated to the Executive Committee, which meets monthly, and comprises the
Executive Directors and senior Group executives. The Board discharges a number of its other duties through its Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees, each of which has clear terms of reference, and is referred to elsewhere within this report on corporate governance.
There is an agreed procedure whereby any of the Directors may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their
duties, at the Company's expense. All Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was established in 1994. It comprises the Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive and is chaired
by Mr J Standen. It is responsible for nominating candidates, for the approval of the Board, to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
Relations with shareholders
The Company complied with all the provisions of this section of the Combined Code throughout the year.
The Company has regular dialogue with institutional shareholders on a range of subjects, including Directors' remuneration, where
it believes this to be in the interests of shareholders generally. 
Accountability and audit
Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for the financial year. The Directors are required to prepare financial
statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently. They also confirm that reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004
and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Information published on the internet
is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Corporate governance
CHAPELTHORPE PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 15
Accountability and audit (continued)
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors consider the Company and the Group to have adequate resources to continue operations
for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt a going concern basis in the preparation of the accounts.
The Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee was established in 1994. It comprises the Group's Non-executive Directors, under the chairmanship
of Mr A B Reeve. The Committee meets as and when required, and at least three times per year. The Chief Executive, Finance Director
and Internal Control Manager may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee. The Company's auditors report to the Committee
and have direct access to the chairman of the Committee without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The minutes of the Committee are reported by the chairman of the Committee to the full Board and are formally recorded.
The Committee may examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group and to the Group's internal controls and
external audit. The Committee reviews the Report and Accounts and announcements, internal control procedures, accounting policies,
compliance with accounting standards, the appointment and fees of the Company's auditors and such other related functions as the
Board may require.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has responsibility for the system of internal control. Such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Directors, in part through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness
of the Group's internal controls.
The Board confirms that it has operated the procedures necessary to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to the
achievement of the Group's strategic objectives and has thereby complied with the requirements of the Combined Code in respect
of internal control matters throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 and up to the date of approval of this Report and Accounts. 
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include:
  the Board's own formal twice-yearly review of risks and controls;
  formal quarterly reviews of risks and controls by subsidiaries;
  discussion of risk areas with subsidiary management during the process of reviewing and approving annual budgets;
  the review of internal and external audit plans; and
  the review of significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
Financial reporting and monitoring of operations
Members of the Board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and the operations of businesses within the Group.
There is a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board based on an annual budget, which is agreed by the Board
and supported by a detailed analysis of the related risks. Actual results for the Group as a whole and the individual businesses
are reviewed monthly against the budget together with key ratio analyses. Subsidiary and Group profit and cash flow forecasts
are revised and reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Policies and procedures 
The Group's detailed procedures manual documents the Group's operational and financial principles, the minimum standards for
effective control and the financial and accounting policies to be applied. The procedures manual is applied by all subsidiaries and
any significant departures therefrom are considered by the Audit Committee.
The manual also details the Group's clearly defined and formalised requirements for control and approval of expenditure involving
capital or revenue.
In order to supplement the existing financial control mechanisms, the Group utilises a formal self-assessment procedure for measuring
financial risk. Operating units also complete self-certification reports confirming compliance with established financial control procedures
and the Group's procedures manual.
Internal audit
The Internal Control Manager operates to a work programme agreed with the Audit Committee, in liaison with the external
auditors. The programme includes monitoring of the Group's system of internal control and compliance with the procedures
manual. Results of the work are reported directly to the Audit Committee.
The Internal Control Manager consolidates and prioritises for the Board the updated financial and non-financial risk analyses
received from subsidiary management on a regular basis.