 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 31
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE COMBINED CODE This
report explains how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code
on corporate governance to its activities.
Directors The Company currently operates with a Board of six directors comprising
the Chairman, three other non-executive directors and two executive directors. It is
the view of the Board that its size and shape are appropriate to the Company's size
and scope of activities and provide for effective operation.
The Board considers that all the non-executive directors are independent of
management and free of any business or other relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.The non-executive
directors are appointed for fixed terms and the unexpired terms of appointment 
are set out in the remuneration report on page 26. Each non-executive director has
been appointed for a term or successive terms totalling less than nine years, with 
the exception of Mr Fraser who joined the Board in 1984.The Board considers 
that his length of service does not affect his independence of management or the
independence of his judgement and the Board values the experience and knowledge
of the Company that Mr Fraser contributes to the Board.
The Board met six times during the year and has three standing committees - the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees - the composition and summarised
terms of reference of which are shown on page 20.
The Board has reserved to itself powers relating to matters which it considers
significant to the Group's business, operational and financial risks.These include the
approval of corporate policies, plans and budgets; acquisitions and disposals of
companies or businesses; major investment and financial decisions; appointments 
to the Board; and major management or organisational changes.
The Audit Committee meets three times a year for the purpose of reviewing the
interim and annual results, and considering all matters relating to internal control 
and financial corporate governance. Each year, the Audit Committee has a meeting
specifically for the purpose of considering risk management and internal control
matters.
It has been the Company's practice for several years to split the responsibilities 
of Chairman and Chief Executive.
All the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary
and senior managers generally, and may take independent professional advice at the
Company's expense if they consider it necessary to do so in the furtherance of 
their duties.
Since the year end, the Board has commenced a review of its procedures and
effectiveness, led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Under the Company's articles of association all directors below the age of 65 are
required to submit themselves for re-election every other year. Directors aged 65 
or over must submit themselves for re-election each year.
Directors' remuneration The remuneration report on pages 26 to 30 demonstrates
how Chloride applies the principles of the Combined Code relating to the level and
make-up of remuneration and to disclosure.
Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders receive the highest priority.
The Company promotes dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts
through regular meetings following the announcement of interim and final results 
and responds positively to invitations to enter into dialogue whenever it considers 
it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so.Trading statements
are issued when deemed necessary. At the Annual General Meeting there is an
opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communication between
investors and directors. In addition, information, including the presentations made 
to institutional shareholders and analysts, is readily available to shareholders on the
Company's website - www.chloridegroup.com.
Accountability and audit The Audit Committee and the Board review the annual
and interim reports in detail to ensure that they present a balanced assessment 
of the Company's position and prospects which is understandable to shareholders
and potential investors.
The system of internal control established to safeguard shareholders' investments
and the Company's assets is described on page 32.The Audit Committee considers,
in conjunction with the external auditors, the accounting policies adopted by the
Company and reviews the effectiveness of internal controls.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
32 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
External auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company's annual
report and accounts.They independently and objectively review management's
reporting of the operational results and financial position.They also review and 
test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the annual report 
and accounts to the extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The Board considers that 
the Company has complied with the recommendations of the Combined Code 
in all respects.
GOING CONCERN In compliance with the recommendation of the Combined
Code to report that the business is a going concern, the directors confirm that 
they expect that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The directors are responsible for the Company's 
system of internal control which aims to safeguard the Company's assets, to ensure
that proper accounting records are maintained, to ensure compliance with statutory
and regulatory requirements and the effectiveness and efficiency of operations,
including the assessment and management of risk. A system of internal control 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can provide only reasonable not absolute assurance particularly
against misstatement or loss.
Chloride has a well established and embedded framework of internal financial and
operational control for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the
Company.This framework has been in place for the year under review, and up to 
the date of approval of the annual report.The key elements of this review process,
which included a specific assessment by the Board for the purpose of this annual
report and accounts, and complies with the guidance,Internal Control Guidance 
for Directors on the Combined Code  published in September 1999, are as follows:
Directors have responsibility for reviewing the strategy and monitoring the conduct
of the Company.The directors and the executive management of the Company 
are accountable for their conduct and performance within the agreed strategies.
A management structure exists with clearly defined lines of responsibility and 
the appropriate levels of delegation.
Acquisitions made during the year were reviewed by the Board and with external
advisers prior to and after completion as appropriate. Detailed due diligence 
is performed by senior management and advisers prior to acquisitions and post
acquisition integration procedures undertaken after completion.Tax and structural
planning is also undertaken. Additionally risks are mitigated through appropriate 
use or receipt of warranties.
The Company and its operations are subject to a detailed annual budget process
and ongoing formal capital investment appraisal process. Actual performance during
the year is monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year, and full
year forecasts are updated at regular intervals during the year, based on trended
historical data and realistic macroeconomic forecasts.These forecasts and results 
are presented to the Board regularly.The Chief Executive and Finance Director each
prepare Board reports monitoring performance and actions to achieve objectives.
The Company and its subsidiaries operate control procedures designed to ensure
complete and accurate accounting of financial transactions, and to limit the risk of
loss of assets or fraud. Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duty
in key areas and internal reviews and checks.The identification, mitigation and
monitoring of material risks are primarily the responsibility of operating company
management. During the budget and reporting cycle general managers and financial
controllers are required to identify risks the business is exposed to, assess any
potential impact and to put in place actions to reduce them.These are also reviewed
on a Company-wide basis with significant risks reported to the Audit Committee
which are then monitored throughout the year.
Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal, personnel and systems are
controlled centrally.
RISK MANAGER A Risk Manager has been appointed for the Company.The
reviews of operations are scoped and managed by the Risk Manager and undertaken
by both the Risk Manager and other central staff.The Risk Manager provides reports
to management and the Audit Committee which also has access to the Risk
Manager's detailed reports and working papers.The Board has reviewed the need
for an internal audit function and considers that the Risk Manager fulfils this function.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  CONTINUED