 Chorion PLC    Report and Accounts 2004 21
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in line with Section 1 of the Combined 
Code appended to the Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules, which sets out the Principles of Good Governance and 
the Code of Best Practice. The Group voluntarily complied with the Combined Code for the period other than as noted below.
Board of Directors
As at 31 December 2004, the Board comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors. 
Brief biographical details of the Directors are given on page 17.
The Board considers each of the non-executive directors to be independent. The senior independent director is 
John Llewellyn Lloyd. 
Under the Combined Code, at least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors. 
Smaller companies are exempt from this requirement and, as such, the Group does not comply with it.
In accordance with the Company's articles of association, each Director retires and submits himself for reappointment at 
least once every three years. All newly appointed Directors offer themselves for re-appointment at the AGM following 
their appointment.
The Board generally meets on a monthly basis, although other ad hoc meetings are held as required to direct overall 
Group strategy and operations. To enable the Board to fully discharge its duties, all Board meetings follow a formal agenda 
and there is a formal written schedule of matters specifi cally reserved for decisions by the Board. All Directors have timely 
access to relevant information and there is a procedure for all Directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Group.
Other matters are delegated to board committees including the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, 
which have written terms of reference, and are described below. The following table sets out the number of meetings of the 
board and of these two committees and shows individual attendance by Directors.
  Board Remuneration Audit
Number of meetings: 16 3 3
Attendance:   
Nicholas James 15 n/a n/a
Sue Murphy  2* n/a n/a
Jeremy Banks 16 n/a n/a
Waheed Alli 13 n/a n/a
William Astor 14 3 3
John Llewellyn Lloyd  14 3 3
*Number of meetings since appointment is two.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets when required, at least once per year, and comprises John Llewellyn Lloyd (Chairman) 
and William Astor.
The principal duties of the Remuneration Committee are to monitor, review and make recommendations to the Board on all 
elements of the remuneration of the Directors of the Company and on the award of options. The Committee's policy is to 
establish remuneration packages that enable the Group to attract, retain and motivate Directors with the skills and experience 
necessary to manage a business of its size. The Committee consults with the Chief Executive about its proposals.  Further 
details of Directors' remuneration are set out in the Report of the Board on the Remuneration of Directors.
The Committee also considers grants of options under the Company's share option schemes and long-term incentive plan. 
The policy of the Committee is to grant awards to senior and other employees as part of a remuneration package to motivate 
them to contribute to the growth of the Company over the medium to long term.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises William Astor and John Llewellyn Lloyd and is chaired by William Astor. The Committee 
reviews the fi nancial statements and monitors fi nancial accounting policies and procedures, including statutory and regulatory 
compliance, together with the interim and preliminary results and Annual Report prior to their submission to the Board. 
Further, the Committee reviews management reports on accounting and internal control matters and keeps under review 
the cost effectiveness and objectivity of the auditors. The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a 
recommendation on appointment, reappointment and removal of auditors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports 
to the Board on the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings held and the Board receives the minutes of all such meetings.
The Combined Code requires that the Audit Committee comprises at least three Non-Executive Directors, the majority of 
whom should be independent. Smaller companies are exempt from this provision, releasing the Group from this requirement.
Report on corporate governance 22
Report on corporate governance
Nomination Committee
Appointments to the Board are approved by the Board as a whole and, as such, the separate Nomination Committee is no 
longer in operation. In this respect, the Group is not compliant with the Combined Code. Appointments to the Board are 
selected through the engagement of independent search consultants, together with consideration of the appropriateness 
of any internal candidates. 
Communications with shareholders
The annual report and accounts and the interim statement at the half-year are the Company's primary means of 
communication with shareholders. The directors also undertake a formal programme of institutional presentations on the 
announcement of the full year and interim results. The feedback on these meetings is shared with the Board. The Board uses 
the AGM to communicate with private investors and encourages their participation.
Company information and announcements are available on the corporate website www.chorion.co.uk.
Internal Control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in identifying, 
evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Group. It does not provide absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In order to discharge its responsibility, the Board has established an organisational structure with clear 
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority. The Board has delegated authority to the Audit 
Committee to carry out certain tasks on its behalf. The Board conducts a review, at least once a year, of the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal controls.
In particular, the Audit Committee has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the signifi cant risks 
affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The control framework and key review processes in place over the various business operations of the Group are as follows:
- The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives. The executive management integrate these objectives into their  
 operational and fi nancial business plans for presentation to the Board;
- Key elements of the Group's system of internal fi nancial controls are as follows:
 Financial reporting: There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget and updated forecasts for the year  
 which are prepared regularly.  The Board reviews the Group's performance each month;
 Operating controls: Financial and operating controls and procedures, including appropriate authorisation controls and  
 procedures, are in place throughout the Group and are monitored via ongoing routines and special exercises;
 Functional speciality reporting: The Group has identifi ed a number of key areas that are subject to regular reporting to 
 the Board, such as progress on capital projects;
 Investment appraisal: The Group has clearly defi ned guidelines for capital expenditure. These include an annual budget,  
 detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements.
- Executive management are responsible for the identifi cation and evaluation of signifi cant risks applicable to their areas 
 of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls;
- The Audit Committee's main role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary
to manage such risks. The Audit Committee reviews the reports prepared by management identifying and evaluating 
signifi cant risks and the internal controls in place to mitigate these risks as well as reviewing external audit reports on the 
system of internal controls. The Audit Committee discusses with management the actions taken in relation to all problems 
that are identifi ed by the Committee;
- The Board has reviewed the need to set up an internal audit function but has concluded that the size and nature of the  
 Group's operations do not warrant such a function at present; and
- The Directors believe it is not appropriate to establish a separate Risk Committee as risk identifi cation and management 
 is the responsibility of the full Board.
Whilst any system of internal fi nancial control can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss, the Board places a strong emphasis on adherence to the Group's control framework. The Board have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control through the control framework and key review processes set out 
in this report.
Going Concern
The Group's fi nancial statements have been prepared on the basis that the Group will continue to be a going concern for the 
foreseeable future. In forming this opinion the Directors have reviewed the Group's budget for 2005 and outline projections 
for the subsequent year, including capital expenditure and cash fl ow forecasts and taken into consideration the bank facilities 
available to the Group.