 Christie Group Annual Report 2013 31
The Directors are committed to delivering high standards of
corporate governance to the Company's shareholders and
other stakeholders including employees, suppliers and the
wider community. The Board of Directors operates within the
framework described below.
The Board
The Board sets the Company's strategic aims and ensures that
necessary resources are in place in order for the Company to
meet its objectives. All members of the Board take collective
responsibility for the performance of the Company and all
decisions are taken in the interests of the Company. 
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational
management of the Company to the Executive Directors and
other senior management there are detailed specific matters
subject to decision by the Board of Directors. These include
acquisitions and disposals, joint ventures and investments
and projects of a capital nature. The Non-executive Directors
have a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the
strategy proposed by the Chairman and Executive Directors;
to scrutinise and challenge performance; to ensure
appropriate remuneration and to ensure that succession
planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive
Directors and other senior members of the management
team. The Chairman holds informal meetings with individual
Non-executive Directors without the executives present. The
senior Non-executive Director also discusses matters with
other Non-executive Directors without the Chairman being
present. The senior executives enjoy open access to the Non-
executive Directors with or without the Chairman being
present. In short the Directors talk to each other .
The Board is responsible for ensuring that a sound system of
internal control exists to safeguard shareholders' interests
and the Group's assets. It is responsible for the regular review
of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control. Internal
controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk
and therefore even the most effective system cannot provide
assurance that each and every risk, present and future, has
been addressed. The key features of the system that operated
during the year are described below.
Organisational structure and control environment
The Board of Directors meets at least five times a year to
review the performance of the Group. It seeks to foster a
strong ethical climate across the Group. There are clearly
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority from
the Board to the operating subsidiaries. The Directors of each
trading subsidiary meet on a monthly basis with normally at
least two members of the Group Board in attendance.
Internal control
The key procedures which the Directors have established with
a view to providing effective internal control are as follows:
  Regular Board meetings to consider the schedule of
matters reserved for Directors' consideration;
  A risk management process (see below);
  An established organisational structure with clearly defined
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
  Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their
allotted responsibilities;
  Comprehensive budgets, forecasts and business plans
approved by the Board, reviewed on a regular basis, with
performance monitored against them and explanations
obtained for material variances (see page 32);
  An Audit Committee of the Board, comprising Non-
executive Directors, which considers significant financial
control matters as appropriate; and
  Documented whistle-blowing policies and procedures.
During 2012 the Board agreed to implement a formal Internal
Audit function and in doing so appointed an Internal Auditor .
The Internal Auditor is mandated to perform their duties
under direct authority from the Group Chief Executive to
examine all areas of compliance across the Group as may be
considered appropriate or necessary including regulatory,
financial and operational requirements. They are required
to report to the Audit Committee at each meeting of the
Committee, setting out the findings of any investigations
undertaken and to agree their work programme for the
subsequent period up to the next scheduled meeting of the
Audit Committee.
Risk management
The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the
major risks facing the Group. The Board has adopted a
schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for
decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective
control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational
and compliance issues. The Board has identified a number
of key areas which are subject to regular reporting to the
Board. The policies include defined procedures for seeking
and obtaining approval for major transactions and
organisational changes.
Risk reviews carried out by each subsidiary are updated
annually as part of an ongoing risk assessment process. The
focus of the reviews is to identify the circumstances, both
internally and externally, where risks might affect the Group's
ability to achieve its business objectives. An overall risk
assessment for the Group is prepared. The management of
each subsidiary periodically reports to the Board any new
risks. In addition to risk assessment, the Board believes that
the management structure within the Group facilitates free
and rapid communication across the subsidiaries and
between the Group Board and those subsidiaries and
consequently allows a consistent approach to managing
risks. Certain key functions are centralised, enabling the
Group to address risks to the business present in those
functions quickly and efficiently.
Corporate governance Financial planning, budgeting and monitoring
The Group operates a planning and budgeting system with an
annual Budget approved by the Board. There is a financial
reporting system which compares results with the budget and
the previous year on a monthly basis to identify any variances
from approved plans. Rolling cash flow forecasts form part of
the reporting system. The Group remains alert to react to
other business opportunities as they arise.
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors do not have service agreements
and have no automatic right of re-appointment. They are
regarded by the Board as bringing experience to the Board
from their fields of business and finance, and ensure that all
matters of strategy, performance, progress and standards are
debated thoroughly. The senior Non-executive Director is
Tony Chambers.
The table below shows the extent to which each of the
Non-executive Directors complies with objective tests on
independence:
Tony Pommy
Question Chambers Sarwal
Has been an employee of the Company
or Group within the last five years? No No
Has, or had within the last three years,
a material business relationship with
the Company either directly, or as a
partner, shareholder, Director or senior
employee of a body that has such a
relationship with the Company? No No
Has received or receives additional
remuneration from the Company apart
from directors' fees, participates in the
Company's share option or performance
-related pay scheme, or is a member of
the Company's pension scheme? No No
Has close family ties with any of the
Company's Directors, senior employees
or advisers? No No
Holds cross-directorships or has significant
links with other Directors through
involvement in other companies or bodies? No Yes
Represents or is a significant shareholder? No No
Has served on the Board for more than
nine years from the date of their first election? Yes No
The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to
be independent in character and judgement and have no
relationships or any circumstances that are likely to affect
their judgement as Directors of the Company.
Tony Chambers was appointed to the Board on 24 February
2004 and, with effect from 24 February 2013 has therefore
served for more than nine years from the date of his initial
election. Taking into consideration all other tests of
independence, the Board do not consider this to impair
Mr Chamber's independence or his ability to fulfil his role
with impartiality.
Pommy Sarwal sits on the board of Hybrid Air Vehicles
Limited, a UK incorporated company, as Joint Chairman with
Philip Gwyn. Mr Sarwal also sits on the Board of Venners
Limited as non-executive Chairman, but the day-to-day
management of that company is conducted by its executive
directors. Neither of these roles are considered to impair his
judgement or character in relation to his directorship of
Christie Group plc.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets no less than twice a year with the
auditors in attendance. It also assists the Board in observing
its responsibility for ensuring that the Group's accounting
systems provide accurate and timely information and that the
Group's published financial statements represent a true and
fair reflection of the Group's financial position and its
performance in the period under review. The committee also
ensures that internal controls and appropriate accounting
policies are in place, reviews the scope and results of the
audits, the independence and objectivity of the auditors and
establishes that an effective system of internal financial
control is maintained.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment of
the external auditors. In order to maintain the independence
of the external auditors, the Board has determined guidelines
as to what non-audit services can be provided by the
Company's external auditors and the approval processes
related to them. Under those policies, work of a consultancy
nature will not be offered to the external auditors unless
there are clear efficiencies and value added benefits to
the Company. Additionally the auditors confirm their
independence in writing each year . The committee also
monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the external
auditors. The Audit Committee consists of Tony Chambers
and Pommy Sarwal as Chairman.
Corporate governance continued
32 Christie Group Annual Report 2013 Christie Group Annual Report 2013 33
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets no less than twice a
year and is responsible for determining main Board Directors'
and subsidiary company managing directors' remuneration
together with the terms and conditions of their service
contracts. It has access to relevant comparable information
in respect of similar businesses. The committee is also
responsible for the allocation of options under the Company's
executive share option scheme. The committee also
maintains a watching brief over the general employment
terms and pay structures, existing or proposed, for the
subsidiary trading companies. The Remuneration Committee
consists of the Non-executive Directors with Tony Chambers
as Chairman.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee meets as required to select
and propose suitable candidates for the approval of the
Board to fill vacancies or new positions and to make
recommendations to the Board on its composition.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Non-executive
Directors and Philip Gwyn as Chairman.
Risks and uncertainties
See Strategic Report on page 29.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding
of objectives between the Company and its institutional
shareholders. This is done through meetings following
the publication of the year-end and interim results.
Shares and shareholdings
The interests of Directors are set out on page 35. 