 70 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Corporate governance
This statement explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code (the Code) contained in the rules 
of The UK Listing Authority . As stated in previous years' reports, the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee have fully
considered the recommendations contained in the Code and endorse the general principles contained therein. Except where described below, 
the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Board of Directors
The Board is made up of six executive Directors, including the executive Chairman, together with four non-executive Directors, three of whom are
classed as independent. The Board meets five times a year to review the Group' s financial and operational performance. The meeting follows a
formal agenda which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board also meets as and when necessary to discuss and
approve specific issues. The Board is also supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and a status report containing other
financial and operational information about the Group, including an assessment of the business risks and opportunities.
The Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive positions are held by Mr C N Wright and Mr R N L Huntingford respectively and Mr C J C Levison
(non-executive Deputy Chairman) is the senior independent Non-Executive Director . Directors have access to the advice and services of an
experienced Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice if necessary , at the Company' s expense.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees
The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee are to determine the Company' s policy on the remuneration of senior executives and 
the specific remuneration packages of the executive Directors.
During the year under review, the members of the Remuneration Committee were Mr C J C Levison (Chairman), Mr G Howard-Spink and 
Mr D B Murrell, all of whom are independent non-executive Directors. The Committee meets regularly with the Executive Chairman and Group
Chief Executive to review and agree the remuneration of the executive Directors and to approve remuneration policies overall for the Group. 
The Committee met four times during the financial year .
The Nominations Committee considers appointments to the Board and makes recommendations in this respect to the Board. During the 
year under review, the members of the Nominations Committee were Mr C J C Levison (Chairman), Mr G Howard-Spink, Mr D B Murrell 
and Mr C N Wright.
Strategy and Investment Committee
The Strategy and Investment Committee, established last year , sets the strategy for the Group' s businesses and approves specific investment and
divestment opportunities. The members of the Strategy and Investment Committee during the year under review were Mr C N Wright, Mr R N L
Huntingford, Mr N R A Butterfield, Lisa J Gordon, Mr C J C Levison, Sir George Martin, Mr G Howard-Spink and Mr D B Murrell.
Re-election
The Code provides that the Directors each submit themselves for re-election every three years. Although the Company does not comply with this
provision, each of the Directors, with the exception of the Executive Chairman, submits himself for re-election on a regular basis in accordance 
with the Articles of Association of the Company . One third of the Directors submit themselves for re-election annually . In view of the Executive
Chairman' s unique position and significant shareholding in the Company , it has not been deemed appropriate for him to submit for re-election 
in the past. However , a resolution confirming Mr Wright' s appointment as a Director was put to shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting,
which was passed. The Company' s Articles of Association require any Director appointed by the Board to seek re-election at the next annual 
general meeting following their appointment.
Investor relations
The Directors value contact with the Company' s institutional and private investors. One of the Directors, Lisa J Gordon, has specific responsibility 
for investor relations. With the announcement of Ms Gordon' s intention to resign at the end of the year , the Board has appointed Harriet Finney 
as Investor Relations Manager to ensure that the Company maintains its relationship with both private and institutional investors. Members of the
Board meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts, with at least ten leading brokers now regularly publishing their research on the
Company . The Directors also welcome the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Company' s Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee
The Code provides that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three non-executive Directors. The Audit Committee comprises only two
Non Executive Directors, Mr C J C Levison (Chairman) and Mr G Howard-Spink, both of whom are independent. Mr D B Murrell has not been a
member of the Audit Committee, due to his past association with KPMG, the Group' s auditors. In view of the time which has elapsed since 
Mr Murrell ceased to be a partner at KPMG and of the Board' s considered view of Mr Murrell' s independence of view and thought, the Board
intends to ask Mr Murrell to join the Audit Committee. The Committee meets twice per annum and more frequently if required to review the
interim and full year results. Meetings are attended by the external auditors. Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 71
Corporate governance
Statement of internal controls
The Group, as required by the London Stock Exchange, now complies with the provisions of the Code, having established the procedures necessary
to implement the guidance: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Code (the T urnbull Report) published in September 1 999 and by
reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the Group' s assets 
are safeguarded and that material financial errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum of delay . The system of internal
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks to business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss or misstatement of the financial statements. The system of internal control is properly
monitored by the risk management procedures in place and whilst keeping the position under review, the Directors do not believe that there is a
requirement to introduce an internal audit function at the current time.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control which have been operating
throughout the year under review and up to and including the date of this report include the following:
  An organisational structure with clearly defined areas of responsibility and delegation of authority;
  A senior member of staff has undertaken the role of Group risk manager to monitor and review internal controls, including risk management,
and to report to the Directors on the effectiveness of the Group' s system of internal controls;
  The operation of risk management process in which each business produces a database of key risks facing its objectives, the likelihood of 
each risk occurring, its impact on finances and image if it were to occur and the procedures in place to manage these risks to the desired level.
This information is filtered to produce a register of the key risks facing the Group and an assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of 
their controls is made. These risks and the management thereof are reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Directors 
on a regular basis;
  High level controls exercised by the divisional management to give assurance that the detailed financial controls are operating satisfactorily. 
The principal high level control is the review of monthly management accounts by the subsidiary managing directors and divisional chief
executives and divisional finance directors;
  Monitoring processes which include detailed written monthly status reports, including an assessment of business risks, prepared by each divisional
chief executive together with a programme of regular divisional and senior management meetings including detailed risk analysis and review, a
programme of quarterly formal forecast meetings, the comparison of monthly results against budget and reforecasts, the preparation of a rolling
forecast on a monthly basis and the supervisory roles of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director;
  The close day to day involvement of the divisional chief executives in all the businesses for which they are responsible.
In the case of companies acquired during the year , the internal controls in place in these companies have been reviewed against the Group' s
benchmarks of effective risk management and are being integrated into the Group' s system of internal control. In the case of associates and joint
ventures, the Directors have been provided with sufficient evidence during the year to establish the effectiveness of the system of internal controls
operation in these companies.
Going concern
The Corporate Governance statement on going concern can be found in the Finance Director' s review on page 11.