 Corporate governance statement
Clarkson PLC is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance. As required by the Listing Rules, this section on
corporate governance, together with the directors' remuneration report, details how the company has applied the principles set out in
the revised Combined Code during the year ended 31 December 2007. The directors consider that the company has complied with the
Combined Code throughout the year.
The Board of Directors
The company is headed by an experienced Board of Directors, comprising a non-executive chairman, group chief executive, two further
executive directors and two non-executive directors. The Board meets at least four times a year and the directors' attendance at the
meetings is shown in the following table. Biographical details are shown on page 24.
The directors are responsible for the proper conduct of the company's affairs. The directors' meetings include reviews of financial and
business performance, opportunities and the monitoring of business risks. They have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved 
for their decision. Certain matters, such as the annual review of the internal controls function, have been delegated to board committees,
whose chairmen report back to the full PLC Board.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive have been clearly established and agreed by the Board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the Board. The chief executive' s primary role is the running of the company' s business.
The senior independent director is Martin Clark.
The chairman met with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors present, and a meeting of the 
non-executive directors took place without the chairman in order to evaluate his performance.
All non-executive directors are appointed for a specific term.
The composition of the Board as between executive and non-executive directors complies with the Code' s requirement for smaller companies.
The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the company's registered office.
On appointment, all directors are provided with induction training relating to the company's business. In addition, individual directors may
seek professional advice on any matter concerning them in the furtherance of their duties at the expense of the company. All directors
have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
During the year the chairman undertook a formal evaluation of the Board and each of its members. This was in the form of a rigorous
assessment of the Board's performance and that of its committees and individual directors including interviews with each director. 
This evaluation process continues.
In accordance with the company's Articles of Association, all directors are subject to election at the first AGM following appointment, 
and thereafter one-third of the directors retire annually by rotation, and where eligible, seek re-election.
Board and committees
The members of the Board and its committees during the year and their attendance at board and committee meetings during the year
were as follows:
Remuneration and
Board Strategy meeting Audit committee nomination committee
Total number of meetings 5123
Current directors
Bob Benton 4123
Martin Clark 5123
Richard Fulford-Smith 5 1 - -
Tim Harris 5 1 - -
Martin Stopford 5 1 - -
Jeff Woyda 5 1 - -
Past director
Martin Watson 2 - 1 1
A copy of the committees' terms of reference is available on request from the company secretary.
28
Clarkson PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 www.clarksons.com Clarkson PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 www.clarksons.com
The remuneration and nomination committee advises on remuneration and incentive schemes for senior staff, and makes
recommendations for the operation of the company's performance-related schemes. The committee recommends to the Board
appointments for the role of chairman, chief executive, finance director, executive and non-executive directors. Further details of the work
of this committee are contained within the directors' remuneration report on pages 31 to 36.
The Audit committee comprises the independent non-executive directors, Martin Clark and Bob Benton. Martin Watson was a member
until his resignation. Martin Clark chairs the committee. The main role and responsibilities of the audit and risk management committee
are to consider the group's risk assessment, internal control procedures, and the use of external auditors and review of the half yearly
and annual financial statements. The audit committee undertakes an annual review of the group's internal controls, including financial,
operational, compliance and risk management and confirms that these controls remain effective. At the invitation of the committee the
chairman of the Board, the chief executive, the finance director and financial controller attended its meetings. The committee's terms of
reference are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code.
The audit committee has established arrangements by which staff of the group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The group does not presently have an internal audit function but the need for such a function is regularly reviewed.
On occasions it may be necessary to employ the company's external auditors for certain non-audit work. During the year they also
provided due diligence and taxation services. All non-audit services are reported to the audit committee which has satisfied itself that
these services do not affect the auditors' objectivity and independence.
Shareholder relations
The importance of maintaining good relations with individual and institutional investors is recognised by the Board. This includes
meetings on a regular basis between the executive directors and institutional and private investors, following trading statements, results
and other relevant announcements; the non-executive directors are fully briefed after such meetings.
The company encourages shareholder attendance at the annual general meeting, at which the chairman takes any questions on the
previous year's results and gives an update on current year trading.
Employment and human rights
Clarksons is an equal opportunities employer and applies employment policies which are fair and equitable. Appointments, training 
and career development are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competence regardless of gender, race,
disability, age, sexual orientation or religious or political beliefs.
The Clarkson intranet site is available to all employees allowing easy access to group information and current developments.
Where suitable opportunities exist full and fair consideration is given to the possibility of employing a disabled person. Where an
employee becomes disabled whilst in the employment of a group company, every effort is made to find continuing employment where
possible. The policies in place within the group aim to deter acts of harassment and discrimination. The group maintains a zero tolerance
policy concerning discrimination, sexual harassment and retaliation against individuals who report problems in the group's workplace.
Health and safety
It is group policy to protect the health and safety of its employees and any other parties involved in the conduct of its business operations.
It aims to meet or exceed all legal and industry requirements and to have systems to define and eliminate health and safety risks.
29 30
Corporate governance statement continued
Corporate social responsibility
Clarksons is committed to responsible business practices, good corporate governance, communication with its stakeholders and sound
risk management.
As an international business operating in 16 countries with 637 staff worldwide, Clarksons aims to conduct its business in a socially
responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which it operates and to respect the needs of customers, shareholders, staff
and suppliers.
Clarksons endeavours to comply with the laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business and to conduct its business in
accordance with established best practice in each of the countries in which it operates. The group aims to be a responsible employer
and adopt values and standards designed to help and guide its staff in their conduct and business relationships.
Environment
The group recognises that the majority of its operations have minimal environmental impact. Its policy is to operate, as far as practicable,
environmentally friendly policies and meet the statutory requirements placed on the group.
Various control measures have been implemented and, in the UK, at the St Magnus House building where the group holds the head
lease, an environmental management system is in place for lighting and air conditioning controlled by a supervisory PC utilising the latest
software. Regular planned maintenance is carried out to ensure that all units are working at their optimum efficiency. All office-produced
waste from St Magnus House is recycled.
Clarksons operates two vessels. The group recognises this has an impact on the environment and it is group policy to make the most
efficient use of energy and materials to minimise any adverse environmental impact where possible.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the establishment and ongoing implementation of the group's internal control mechanisms.
These are designed to identify and counter the particular risks to which the company is exposed. By their very nature, these controls 
can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. A number of key procedures have been
established to provide effective internal controls. These include a comprehensive budgetary process, with both annual and regular
forecasts being considered and approved by the Board; monthly monitoring of trading results, balance sheet and cash flow against
budget and prior periods with significant variances being investigated and appropriate action taken; senior management within each
office having responsibility for the establishment of appropriate control frameworks within their operations to ensure compliance with
group policies, procedures, standards and ensuring that risks within their businesses are identified, assessed, controlled and monitored
on an ongoing basis; clearly defined lines of responsibility and limits of delegated authority and regular meetings of the board and senior
operational managers to discuss particular issues affecting each business unit, including their major risks.
The Board confirms that, through the audit committee, it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all
controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems for the year and up to the date of the
report. A formal review is undertaken annually.
Clarkson PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 www.clarksons.com