 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
The Board of Directors is accountable to the shareholders for the
corporate governance of the Group. African Eagle operates in an
effective and efficient way, with integrity and with due regard for the
interests of all stakeholders. African Eagle follows the principles of
corporate governance set out in the QCA Guidelines.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of African Eagle is responsible for the success of the Group.
The Board's functions are to establish strategic objectives and policies;
oversee all aspects of the finances; continuously review performance and
controls; manage risk; decide on key business transactions; and manage
the interests of stakeholder groups.
The Board currently comprises six members: three executive directors and
three non-executive directors. Biographies of the directors appear on pages
24 and 25. The directors' varied backgrounds and relevant industry
experience give African Eagle a good combination of the knowledge and
expertise necessary to manage the business effectively. The structure of the
Board ensures that no one individual or group dominates the decision-making
process. Directors' respective responsibilities are shown in the table below.
The Board meets at least four times per year and the meetings are
attended by all directors. In addition, a number of meetings are held via
telephone and email. The Board together with the Executive, Audit,
Remuneration and Exploration Committees, deals with all important
aspects of the Group's affairs. The Non-executive Chairman, Mr Park, is
responsible for the leadership of the Board and to ensure effective
communication exists between the executive and non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary, Mr Metcalf, is responsible for ensuring all Board
procedures are followed. Formal agendas and board papers are sent to
the directors in a timely fashion prior to board meetings.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, one third of the directors in
office must retire by rotation each year and can stand for re-election by the
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. At the forthcoming AGM,
Mr Bevan Metcalf and Mr Euan Worthington have agreed to retire and,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. At present, the directors do
not consider a nominations committee necessary. Recommendations for
appointments to the Board are made by the Board as a whole after due
evaluation.
The non-executive directors are Mr Park, Mr Worthington and Mr Cooper.
They have interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and hold share
options. The following committees deal with the Group's affairs and
provide experienced and objective advice to the Board.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee meets monthly and is empowered to take, on
behalf of the Board, whatever management action it considers to be
necessary to further the strategy, business objectives and targets
established by the Board and to safeguard the interests of the Group. The
Managing Director, Mr Parker, has been delegated executive
responsibility for the Group. The other members of this committee are Mr
Metcalf and Mr Davies.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee ensures the good operation of financial practices
throughout the Group; ensures that controls are in place to protect the
assets and to ensure the integrity of financial information; reviews the
interim and annual financial statements; and reviews all aspects of the
audit programme and provision of non-audit services by the auditors. The
Finance Director and a representative of the external auditors normally
attend meetings of the Audit Committee, which meets at least twice per
year. This committee is chaired by Mr Worthington and the other members
are Mr Park and Mr Cooper. The members are all non-executives and
therefore independent. If issues arise which are deemed outside the areas
of expertise of the members, independent expert advice is sought.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee normally meets twice per year and is chaired
by Mr Cooper. The other members are Mr Park and Mr Worthington.
African Eagle Resources Annual Report  26
Corporate
governance
Director Title Board committees 
Executive Audit Remuneration Exploration
John Park Chairman x x
Mark Parker Managing Director x x
Christopher Davies Operations Director x x
Bevan Metcalf Finance Director x
Euan Worthington Deputy Chairman x x
Geoffrey Cooper Non-executive Director x x 27 African Eagle Resources Annual Report  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The main duties of the committee are:
  Set the salaries paid to the executive directors;
  Consider other benefits granted to the executive directors;
  Make recommendations in respect of the terms of the service contracts
of the executive directors and any proposed changes to those
contracts; and 
  Oversee the operation of the Company's share option scheme.
Being composed of non-executive directors who have no personal interest
in the outcome of its decisions, the committee provides some reassurance
to the shareholders that the remuneration of the executive directors is fair,
but not excessive. Financial packages for executive directors are
established by reference to those prevailing in the market place for
directors of similar status, skills and qualifications and should be sufficient
to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the
business successfully. The remuneration of non-executive directors, while
subject to similar criteria, is governed mainly by the amount of time each
non-executive commits to African Eagle.
EXPLORATION COMMITTEE
The full Exploration Committee meets at least once per year and
comprises the Managing Director, the Operations Director and the
Group's Country Managers. The committee reviews progress and results
on the Group's projects, sets operational priorities and proposes work
programmes and budgets for each project. The committee's
recommendations are subject to approval by the Executive Committee
and the Board.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's
internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness. Financial,
operational and compliance procedures are designed to safeguard the
Group's assets and are regularly reviewed by the Board. The Finance
Director visits the overseas operations annually to review the internal
controls and to meet the local auditors to review areas of risk. The internal
control system is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. It can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss. The directors are satisfied that the existing controls are adequate and
effective with regard to the size of the Group and the stage of its
development.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the
performance and activities of the Group. The Board attaches great
importance to maintaining good relations with its shareholders. Market
sensitive information is released to all shareholders concurrently in line
with stock exchange rules. The Company listed on the Alternative
Exchange of the JSE Limited (AltX) in August 2007 and now has a
significant number of shareholders based in South Africa. As at 31 March
2008, the Company had approximately 921 shareholders. Extensive
information about the Group's activities is included in this Annual Report
and Accounts which are sent to all shareholders. In line with UK
legislation, a resolution will be put to the AGM which will allow
shareholders to receive the Annual Report electronically in the future.
In 2008, a Group newsletter will be launched designed to keep
shareholders up to date with progress in the business. At the Company's
AGM on 19 June 2008, the directors will present to the shareholders a
report on the current and proposed operations and enable the shareholders
to express their views about the Group's business activities.
African Eagle exhibits at conventions such as Mines and Money in
London, Indaba in South Africa, Livingstone in Zambia, and presents at
investor forums, in order to give shareholders the opportunity to review the
Group's progress and to ask questions of the directors.
The annual report, news releases and other information on African Eagle
are available on the Group's website (www.africaneagle.co.uk). In
March 2007, African Eagle's website became one of the first to comply
fully with the new AIM Rule 26, which requires all AIM companies to
disclose key prescribed information to investors online before 20 August
2007. The website is continually updated and details on African Eagle's
exploration areas have recently been incorporated.
GOING CONCERN
The directors are aware that the Group will need additional working capital
in 2009 to fund the capital costs associated with the Mkushi Copper Project
in Zambia as well as other project development finance and future
exploration programmes. The directors have a reasonable expectation that
they will secure additional resources when required to continue operating
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.