 African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2008 15
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
The Board of Directors is accountable to the 
shareholders for the corporate governance of the 
Group. African Eagle operates in an effective and 
efficient way, with integrity and due regard for the 
interests of all stakeholders. African Eagle follows 
the principles of corporate governance set out in the 
QCA Guidelines.
Board of Directors
The Board of African Eagle is responsible for the 
success of the Group. However, due to the current 
economic climate the Board's prime duty is to ensure 
that African Eagle continues as a going concern.  
The Board's functions are:
to establish strategic objectives and policies; to oversee all aspects of the finances; to review performance and controls continuously; to manage risk; to decide on key business transactions; to manage the interests of stakeholder groups. The Board currently comprises six members: three 
executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors. 
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 12 and 
13. The Directors' varied backgrounds and relevant 
industry experience give African Eagle a good 
combination of the knowledge and expertise necessary 
to manage the business effectively. The structure of the 
Board ensures that no one individual dominates the 
decision-making process. Directors' respective 
responsibilities are shown in the table below.
During 2008 the Board held four face to face Board 
meetings which were attended by all Directors. In 
addition a number of meetings were held via 
conference call. The Board together with the 
Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Exploration 
Committees, deals with all important aspects of the 
Group's affairs. The Non-executive Chairman, Mr 
Park, leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring 
that effective communication exists between the 
executive and Non-executive Directors. The 
Company Secretary, Mr Metcalf, is responsible for 
ensuring all Board procedures are followed. Formal 
agendas and Board papers are sent to the Directors 
in a timely fashion prior to Board meetings.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, one 
third of the Directors in office must retire by rotation 
each year and can stand for re-election by the 
shareholders at the AGM. At the forthcoming AGM, 
Mr Park and Mr Davies have agreed to retire and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. At 
present, the Directors do not consider a nominations 
committee necessary. Recommendations for 
appointments to the Board are made by the Board  
as a whole after due evaluation. The Non-executive 
Directors are Mr Park, Mr Worthington and  
Mr Cooper. They have interests in the ordinary  
shares of the Company and hold share options.  
The following committees deal with the Group's 
affairs and provide experienced and objective  
advice to the Board.
Board committees
Director Title Executive Audit Remuneration Exploration
John Park Chairman (Non-executive)
Mark Parker Managing Director    Christopher Davies Operations Director    Bevan Metcalf Finance Director Euan Worthington Deputy Chairman (Non-executive)  
Geoffrey Cooper Non-executive Director African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2008 16
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee meets approximately 
monthly and is empowered to take, on behalf of the 
Board, whatever management action it considers to 
be necessary to further the strategy, business 
objectives and targets established by the Board and 
to safeguard the interests of the Group. The 
Managing Director, Mr Parker, has been delegated 
executive responsibility for the Group. The other 
members of this committee are Mr Metcalf and  
Mr Davies.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee:
Ensures the operation of good financial practices throughout the Group;
Ensures that controls are in place to protect the assets and to ensure the integrity of financial 
information;
Reviews the interim and annual financial statements; and
Reviews all aspects of the audit programme and provision of non-audit services by the auditors. 
The Finance Director and a representative of the 
external auditors normally attend meetings of the 
Audit Committee, which meets at least twice per 
year. The external auditors have direct access to the 
members of the committee without the presence of 
the executive Directors, for independent discussions. 
The committee is chaired by Mr Worthington and 
the other members are Mr Park and Mr Cooper.  
The members are all Non-executives and therefore 
independent. If issues arise which are deemed 
outside the areas of expertise of the members, 
independent expert advice is sought.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at 
least twice per year and is chaired by Mr Cooper. The 
other members are Mr Park and Mr Worthington.
The main duties of the committee are:
To establish the salaries paid to the executive Directors;
To consider other benefits granted to the executive Directors;
To make recommendations in respect of the terms of the service contracts of the executive Directors 
and any proposed changes to those contracts;
To oversee the operation of the Company's share option scheme.
Being composed of Non-executive Directors who 
have no personal interest in the outcome of its 
decisions, the committee provides some reassurance 
to the shareholders that the remuneration of the 
executive Directors is fair, but not excessive. Financial 
packages for executive Directors are established by 
reference to those prevailing in the market place for 
Directors of similar status, skills and qualifications 
and should be sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate Directors of the quality required to run the 
business successfully. The remuneration of Non-
executive Directors, while subject to similar criteria, is 
governed mainly by the amount of time each 
Non-executive commits to African Eagle. The 
Directors agreed to a voluntary pay cut in December 
in view of the Company's need to conserve funds.  
Exploration Committee
The Exploration Committee meets at least once per 
year and comprises the Managing Director, 
Operations Director and the Group's Country 
Managers. The committee reviews progress and 
results on the Group's projects, sets operational 
priorities, proposes work programmes and budgets 
for each project and decides which projects should 
be dropped. The committee's recommendations are 
subject to approval by the Executive Committee and 
the Board.
Corporate Governance African Eagle Resources plc 
Annual Report 2008 17
Internal Controls
The Directors are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining the Group's internal controls and for 
reviewing their effectiveness. Financial, operational 
and compliance procedures are designed to 
safeguard the Group's assets and are regularly 
reviewed by the Board. The Finance Director visits 
the overseas operations to review the internal 
controls and to meet the local auditors to review 
areas of risk. The internal control system is an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. It 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
Directors are satisfied that the existing controls are 
adequate and effective with regard to the size of the 
Group and the stage of its development.
Communication with Shareholders
The Board recognises that it is accountable to 
shareholders for the performance and activities of 
the Group. The Board attaches great importance to 
maintaining good relations with its shareholders. 
Market sensitive information is released to all 
shareholders concurrently in line with stock exchange 
rules. The Company is listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market ( AIM') of the London Stock 
Exchange and on the Alternative Exchange of the 
Johannesburg Stock Exchange (AltX), and has 
consented to its shares being traded on the London 
Plus Market. At the end of March 2009, the 
Company had 1011 shareholders. 
At the AGM held in June, 2008 African Eagle's 
shareholders elected to adopt the changes in law 
that governs electronic communications with 
investors in line with the Companies Act 2006.  
This allows the Company to use its website as its 
default method of publication of statutory 
documents and communications to shareholders, 
such as the Annual Report and Accounts. Reducing 
the number of communications sent by post will not 
only result in cost savings to the Company but also 
reduce the impact that the unnecessary printing and 
distribution of reports has on the environment. The 
Company wrote to shareholders in March 2009 
asking them if they would consent to website 
publication as opposed to receiving hard copy. 
Shareholders who consent to website publication will 
continue to be notified each time that a statutory 
communication is placed on the website. 
At the Company's AGM on 18 June 2009, the 
Directors will present to the shareholders a report on 
the current and proposed operations and enable the 
shareholders to express their views about the 
Group's business activities.
African Eagle exhibits at conferences such as Mines 
and Money in London, Indaba in South Africa, AMC 
at Livingstone in Zambia and PDAC in Toronto, and 
presents at investor forums, in order to give 
shareholders the opportunity to review the Group's 
progress and to ask questions of the Directors.
Financial reports, news releases, details of the 
Company's exploration projects and other Company 
information are all available on the Group's website 
(www.africaneagle.co.uk). 