  
 
Corac Group plc Report and Financial Statements 2008 
9
Corporate governance report 
 
 
Principles of good corporate governance 
 
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  It has adopted procedures to institute good 
governance insofar as it is practical and appropriate for an organisation of its size and nature, notwithstanding 
the fact that companies that have securities traded on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM ) are not 
required to comply with the Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services 
Authority.   
 
As the Group grows, it will regularly review the extent of its corporate governance practices and procedures. At 
its current stage of development, the Parent Company does not consider it appropriate to be compliant with the 
Combined Code. 
 
The Board has implemented the Turnbull Guidance on the aspects of the Combined Code relating to Internal 
Control.   
 
Application of principles 
 
Directors 
During the year the Board consisted of four executive directors, which for the majority of the year were three 
full time and one part time, and between two and three non-executive directors.   The Board does not consider it 
appropriate at this stage of the Group's development to split the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.  The 
Board meets bi-monthly and is provided with relevant information on financial, business and corporate matters 
prior to meetings.  The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, 
approval of the budget, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant 
operational and financial matters.  The Board monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the 
progress of the Group towards achievement of its budgets and forecasts.  This is achieved by the close 
involvement of the executive directors in the day-to-day running of the business and by regular reports 
submitted to and considered at meetings of the Board and sub Committees.  The Board also considers employee 
issues, key appointments and compliance with relevant legislation.  The Board has both an Audit and a 
Remuneration Committee.  Given the small size of the Board, it is not considered necessary to constitute a 
separate Nominations Committee and all members of the Board are consulted on the potential appointment of a 
new director or a company secretary.  The Company also has a Health and Safety Committee that reports to the 
Board at regular intervals. 
 
All directors can receive appropriate training as necessary and are able to take independent professional advice 
in relation to their duties if necessary at the Parent Company's expense.  All directors are subject to re-election 
every three years. 
 
Relationship with shareholders 
The Board attaches a high importance to maintaining good relationships with all shareholders.  The Parent 
Company holds regular meetings with institutional shareholders to keep them updated on the Group's 
performance, strategy, management and Board membership.  In addition, the Board welcomes as many 
shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting and encourages an open discussion after the 
formal proceedings.  The Parent Company gives regular briefings to a number of analysts who cover the 
technology sector and actively encourages more analysts to follow the Group. 
 
Accountability and audit 
Directors' responsibilities 
 
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. 
 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.  Under that law the 
directors have elected to prepare the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting standards (IFRS ) as adopted by the European Union. 
 
   
 
Corac Group plc Report and Financial Statements 2008 
10
Corporate governance report (continued) 
 
 
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Parent Company and of the profit and loss of the Group for that period.  In preparing these financial statements, 
the directors are required to: 
 
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;  
 
  state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 
 
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that 
the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions and 
qualifications as necessary. 
 
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing these financial 
statements. 
 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Parent Company and to enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Group and of the Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the website and accordingly the auditor 
accepts no responsibility for the information published.  Information published on the website is accessible in 
many countries and legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
As far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Parent Company's 
auditor is unaware.  Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Parent Company's auditor is 
aware of that information. 
 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprised two non-executive directors.  From 1 January 2008 to 1 December 2008 it was 
chaired by Mr J H Gunn and subsequently by Mr A J Wood.  The Committee has specific terms of reference 
which deal with its authority and duties.  It meets at least twice a year, with the Finance Director, Executive 
Chairman and the auditor attending by invitation.  The Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of 
the auditor each year.  The Committee overviews the adequacy of the Group and Parent Company's internal 
controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and provides a forum through which the Company's 
external auditor reports to the non-executive directors. 
 
The Board has decided that the size of the Group does not justify a dedicated internal audit function.  This 
position will be reviewed as the Group's activities increase. 
 
Going concern 
Based upon the results of their enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Parent 
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
 
In reaching this conclusion the directors considered many factors, both within and outside their control, 
including: 
 
  detailed financial projections (including cashflow projections) which incorporate experience gained 
from historical budgeting and forecasts updated on a monthly basis; 
   
 
Corac Group plc Report and Financial Statements 2008 
11
Corporate governance report (continued) 
 
 
  dependence upon key partners, customers and staff in the development and validation of the Group's 
technology and products, in particular in respect of the validation of the DGC through field trials; 
 
  financial risk management including the Group's financial commitment to the development and 
delivery of products; 
 
  ability of the Group to manage and adapt to challenges, potential setbacks and potential delays in the 
development programme and subsequent roll out and changing customer requirements; 
 
  products and markets including the acceptance and adoption of the Group's technology and products 
by actual and potential customers and the level and rate of take up; and 
 
  exposure to contingent liabilities including potential claims relating to pre-production units under trial 
with customers. 
 
The Group and Parent Company's management of liquidity risk is further discussed in note 19 to the financial 
statements. 
 
Internal control and risk management 
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group and Parent Company have processes to 
identify, evaluate and manage key risks. The nature of the Group and Parent Company's business is changing 
from research and development to greater emphasis on its application and commercial exploitation.  This calls 
for rigorous cost analysis and market risk assessment.  The system is designed to manage and minimise risk of 
failure to achieve the Company's strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.   
 
Key areas of internal control are listed below: 
 
  regular review of the technical development programmes, the commercialisation of the Group's 
technology and the financial performance of the Group in the context of the Company's business plan; 
 
  an organisation structure with clear executive policies on recruitment, training, appraisals and project 
management; 
 
  an annual budget showing projected revenues, costs, funding requirements and operational targets. The 
Board is responsible for approving the budget and monitoring performance against it; and 
 
  a system to ensure the security of the Group's intellectual property.  
 
The directors consider that the present system of internal control is sufficient for the needs of the Group and 
Parent Company and adequately addresses the risks to which the Group is perceived to be exposed.  The Board 
reviews the system formally twice per year. 
 
On behalf of the board 
 
 
 
 
 
A J Wood 
Director 
 
 