 17 | Corac Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
www.corac.co.uk
Principles of Good Corporate 
Governance
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance.  It has adopted procedures to institute good 
governance insofar as it is practical and appropriate for an 
organisation of its size and nature, notwithstanding the fact that 
companies that have securities traded on the Alternative 
Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange (AIM ) are not 
required to comply with the Combined Code as appended to the 
Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.  Whilst 
not required to comply with the Code, the Group has chosen to 
give selected disclosures which they believe are necessary or 
valuable to readers. 
As the Group grows, it will regularly review the extent of its 
corporate governance practices and procedures. At its current 
stage of development, the Parent Company does not consider it 
appropriate to be fully compliant with the Combined Code.
Application of Principles
Directors
During the year the Board consisted of two full time executive 
directors and two non-executive directors. The Board met ten
times in the year and is provided with relevant information on 
financial, business and corporate matters prior to meetings.  As a 
result of the transformation of the group, a search was initiated in 
the last quarter of the year to find an additional non-executive 
director to proactively address the growing needs of the Board to 
support the larger group of companies from a business and 
corporate governance perspective.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and 
divestment policy, approval of the budget, approval of major 
commercial contracts and capital expenditure projects and 
consideration of significant operational and financial matters.  The 
Board monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the 
progress of the Group towards achievement of its budgets and 
forecasts.  This is achieved by the close involvement of the 
executive directors in the day-to-day running of the business and 
by regular reports submitted to and considered at meetings of the 
Board and subcommittees.  The Board also considers employee 
issues, key appointments and compliance with relevant legislation.  
The Board has both an Audit and a Remuneration Committee.  
The Board do not consider it necessary to constitute a separate 
Nominations Committee and all members of the Board are 
consulted on the potential appointment of a new director or a 
company secretary.  
All directors can receive appropriate training as necessary and are 
able to take independent professional advice in relation to their 
duties if necessary at the Parent Company's expense.  All directors
are subject to re-election every three years.
Relationship with shareholders
The Board attaches a high importance to maintaining good 
relationships with all shareholders.  The Parent Company holds 
regular meetings with institutional shareholders to keep them 
updated on the Group's performance, strategy, management and 
Board membership.  In addition, the Board welcomes as many 
shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting 
and encourages an open discussion after the formal proceedings.  
The Parent Company gives regular briefings to a number of 
analysts who cover the technology sector and actively encourages 
more analysts to follow the Group.
Accountability and audit
Directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year.  Under that law the directors 
are required to prepare the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS ) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the 
company for that period.  In preparing these financial statements 
the directors are required to: 
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; 
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity's financial
position and financial performance; and
 make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company's 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Group and Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006.  They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the 
company's website.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge the 
financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and the management report, 
which is incorporated into the directors' report, includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
As far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant 
information of which the Parent Company's auditor is unaware.  
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant information and to establish that the Parent Company's 
auditor is aware of that information.
Corporate Governance 
Report 18 | Corac Group Plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
www.corac.co.uk
Corporate Governance Report
Audit Committee
During the year the Audit Committee comprised two non-
executive directors.  The Committee has specific terms of 
reference which deal with its authority and duties.  It meets at 
least twice a year, with the Chief Financial Officer, Executive 
Chairman and the auditor attending by invitation.  The 
Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the 
auditor each year.  The Committee overviews the adequacy of the 
Group and Parent Company's internal controls, accounting 
policies and financial reporting and provides a forum through 
which the Company's external auditor reports to the non-
executive directors.
The Board has decided that the size of the Group does not justify 
a dedicated internal audit function.  This position will be reviewed 
as the Group's activities increase.
Going Concern
Discussion of going concern is included within the accounting 
policies described in note 2 of the Notes to the Financial 
Statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group 
and Parent Company have processes to identify, evaluate and 
manage key risks. Following the acquisitions, the nature of the 
Group and Parent Company's business has changed from pure 
R&D to a mix of commercial design, manufacturing and 
service/maintenance as well as on-going R&D. This calls for 
rigorous cost analysis and market risk assessment.  The system is 
designed to manage and minimise risk of failure to achieve the
Parent Company's strategic objectives, and can only provide
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.  
Key areas of internal control are listed below:
 the review of contract progress against milestones and 
forecast expectations to ensure that contracts are delivered 
on time and on budget.
 regular review of the technical development programmes, 
the commercialisation of the Group's technology and the 
financial performance of the Group in the context of the 
Parent Company's business plan;
 an organisation structure with clear executive policies on 
recruitment, training, appraisals and project management;
 an annual budget showing projected revenues, costs, 
funding requirements and operational targets. The Board is 
responsible for approving the budget and monitoring 
performance against it; and
 a system to ensure the security of the Group's intellectual 
property. 
The directors consider that the present system of internal control 
is sufficient for the needs of the Group and Parent Company and 
adequately addresses the risks to which the Group is perceived to 
be exposed.  The Board reviews the system twice per year.
On behalf of the Board
R W King
Chairman 
Audit Committee
25 March 2013
R W King
Chairman 
Audit Committee
25 March 2013