 Compliance with the Combined Code
Corin is committed to high standards of corporate governance. Throughout the year the Company complied with the
principles of good governance and code of best practice, published in June 1998 and annexed to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, except to the extent set out below. 
The directors confirm that the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code for the year ended 31 December 2003, with the exception of:
 
Following the Company's flotation on the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2002, the service contracts of the former
Chairman, the Chief Executive and Finance Director were amended to provide for twelve months written notice
expiring on or after the second anniversary of flotation. With effect from 9 May 2003, the Company has been in
compliance with Provision B.1.7 of the Code, which recommends notice periods of one year or less.
 
The Board includes two independent non-executive directors, neither of whom has been appointed Senior Independent
Non-executive Director as recommended by Provision A.2.1 of the Code. The two independent non-executive
directors make up the Audit Committee, however, Provision D.3.1 requires that the Audit Committee comprises of at
least three non-executive directors. Given the size of the Company, the Board considers that the current
arrangements are appropriate.
 
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was unable to attend the AGM held in 2003. He is, however, planning
to attend the forthcoming AGM, thereby complying with Provision C.2.3.
Corin will continue to improve and develop its corporate governance practices during 2004 to ensure timely compliance with
the  Combined Code on Corporate Governance' published in July 2003 and appended to the Listing Rules.
Application of principles of good governance
The Board and its committees
The Board currently comprises an independent non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and one independent 
non-executive director. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. All directors
are subject to re-election every three years.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and for the Group's system of corporate
governance. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and a statement on going
concern are given in the Report of the Directors.
The Board meets formally every month to review trading performance, forecasts and strategy, and to consider possible
acquisitions and reporting to shareholders. The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors
are fully considered. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, have
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are entitled to take independent professional advice. 
The following formally constituted committees support the Board, dealing with specific aspects of the Group's affairs in
accordance with written terms of reference:
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by W S C Richards. Its other member is G M Hart. The
committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure
of the Board. 
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by G M Hart. Its other member is W S C Richards. It is
responsible for the Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost. The committee determines the contract
terms, remuneration and other benefits for the executive directors, including performance related bonus schemes, pension
rights and compensation payments. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors. Further
details of the Company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors'
Remuneration Report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by W S C Richards. Its other member is G M Hart. The committee
provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are held at least twice a year and are also attended,
by invitation, by the Chief Executive and Finance Director. The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a range of matters
including the half-year and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls,
which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information, reported to the shareholders. The committee discusses the
nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
16
CORIN GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The audit committee advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the external auditors 
and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work. During the year the committee approved, monitored 
and subsequently reviewed the assurance work carried out by Grant Thornton in order to ensure objectivity and
independence were maintained throughout.
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interest in the Company's strategy and performance.
The Operating and Financial Review includes a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular
dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement of the year 
end results and at the half year. The Company also has an Investor Relations area on its website, www.coringroup.com, 
on which financial and other information is available and regularly updated.
All shareholders are welcomed to the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will be available to answer questions from
both private and institutional investors. As in previous years, proxy votes for and against each resolution proposed at the
meeting will be announced.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining the Group's system of internal control and it confirms that there is an ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board further confirms that it
has reviewed Corin's system of internal control for effectiveness. It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure in order to achieve the Group's strategic objectives, and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The system has been in place for the full year
under review and up to the date of review of the financial statements.
The Board's policy is to have systems in place within the Group that optimise the Group's ability to manage risk in an effective
and appropriate manner. The Board has delegated to the executive directors responsibility for identifying, evaluating and
monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed. Monthly management meetings
provide a forum for the discussion and escalation of any material internal control issues or any significant new risks identified.
The Board is updated regularly throughout the year and reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control on an
ongoing basis by: 
 
Reviewing detailed budgets for the year ahead along with the five-year rolling plan and capital expenditure approval
procedure and authorisation levels. Central to this exercise is a review of the commercial and financial risks and
opportunities facing the Group. Particular focus is given to the consideration of the risks unique to each newly formed
direct sales operation and to potential candidates for the direct sales strategy.
 
Reviewing, on a regular basis, operational performance against the budget for the current year and against prior year
performance. The Board initiates action plans, if necessary, to optimise operational and financial performance.
 
Retaining primary responsibility for acquisition policy and research and development programmes and all associated
commercial, legal and financial due diligence work. Below Board level there are clearly defined management
authorities for the approval of capital expenditure which is controlled through the budgetary process and subject to
strict authorisation levels.
Corporate risk management policy and strategy is the responsibility of the Board and is reviewed and updated regularly
throughout the year. Corin's Code of Conduct policy statement has been introduced during 2003 in response to an internal
operational risk project. Management of health and safety issues continues to be a priority for the Group. Commercial risk is a
familiar consideration at the monthly International management meetings in the context of Corin's expanding worldwide
network of distributors and direct sales operations.
The audit committee considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors.
Corin does not have a dedicated internal audit function, although internal audits are carried out under the Group's ISO 9001
accredited quality assurance process. The Board considers that the current arrangements are adequate at this stage of the
Group's development. The Board will continue to assess the need for an internal audit function on an annual basis.
On behalf of the Board
S J Hartley
Finance Director and Company Secretary
6 April 2004
17
CORIN GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2003