 Statement of compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code The Company is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance. The Board is accountable 
to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance.
The Company has complied with the Code provisions set out 
in Section 1 of the Combined Code during 2003, with the
exception of provision A.2.1 and compliance with the 
Turnbull Guidance. 
Until October 2003 the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive
were combined with Julian Treger's role as Executive Chairman.
The Board addressed this exception to the Combined Code with
the appointment of Mark Adams, formerly the Chief Operating
Officer, as Chief Executive Officer. However, Mr Treger remains 
in an Executive capacity in his position as Chairman. Mr Adams
has the responsibility for the day to day operations of the Group
while Mr Treger retains responsibility for the strategic direction
and policy of the Group. The Board has also been strengthened
with the appointment of a fourth Non-executive Director and
the operation of a committee on conflicts as discussed below.
In 2003 there was no formal regular review, as required by the
Turnbull Guidance, of the risks faced by the business. A partial
review was undertaken early in 2003 and a full review is to be 
completed in 2004. This process of identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group will continue
throughout the current year. Further assurance has been
provided during 2003 by the work undertaken by external
consultants whilst performing the UK strategic review. 
This review covered all aspects of the business and 
reviewed both operational and financial processes.
Additional explanation of how the principles are applied is set
out below and, in connection with Directors' remuneration, in
the Report on Directors' Remuneration.
Application of Code principles
Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the
management of the Group's business, for Group strategy,
reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding 
and reporting to the Shareholders. The Board meets when
required, normally monthly, and the agenda for the Board
meetings incorporates a consistent format of matters 
reserved for its decision. 
The Board comprises the Executive Chairman, two other
executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors, three 
of whom are independent. Lord Blackwell is the senior
independent Director. The Board considers that the Non-
executive Directors bring a wide range of business and financial
experience to the Group. All Directors are subject to election by
Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment 
and to re-election at least every three years.
The Directors are provided with the opportunity to receive
appropriate training. The Company Secretary, Ms Watson, is
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed 
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. 
In addition, procedures are in place for Directors to seek both
independent advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the
Board as a whole. 
Conflicts Committee Under s317 of the Companies Act,
Directors have a legal obligation to disclose to the Board details
of any contract in which they have an interest. In addition, as a
result of Mr Treger's relationship with the Active Value Funds
10 Corporate Services Group
and Andrew Wilson's links with Lord Ashcroft and their
respective significant shareholdings in the Company, the 
Board has established procedures intended to manage issues
involving potential conflicts of interest. A Committee, chaired by
Lord Blackwell comprising himself, Mr Button and Mr Young,
considers any issues that are referred to it that may involve a
conflict for any Director and/or their connected persons and/or
major shareholders and takes decisions on behalf of the Board 
in connection with conflict issues. This Committee has been in
place throughout the year and remains in place on an ongoing
basis to consider and deal with conflict issues as and when they
arise. Mr Treger and Mr Wilson, in their capacities as Directors 
of the Company, will inform the Committee of any matter in
connection with which a conflict may arise.
The Company is satisfied that it is capable of carrying on its
business independently of the Active Value Funds and Lord
Ashcroft and that all transactions and relationships between 
the Company, the Active Value Funds and Lord Ashcroft and 
any of their associates will be at all times at arm's length and 
on a normal commercial basis. 
Audit Committee The Group has an Audit Committee whose
responsibilities include oversight of the Group's internal audit
strategy, the review of reports from the Auditors, review of 
the half year and annual report and accounts prior to their
submission to the full Board, examining the standards of
accounting and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's
financial control systems. The Committee also reviews the 
cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external
Auditors and the nature of non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and is
chaired by Mr Button. Its other members during 2003 were 
Mr Avenel until his retirement, Mr Wilson following his
appointment and Lord Blackwell. Meetings have been attended
on invitation by the Executive Chairman, the Group Finance
Director and the Group Chief Executive Officer. The Group's
external Auditors have attended all the Audit Committee
meetings throughout the period.
Remuneration Committee Mr Avenel chaired the Group's
Remuneration Committee until his retirement. Thereafter the
committee was chaired by Mr Young and its other members
during 2003 were Mr Button and Lord Blackwell. The Committee
meets at least twice a year. It is responsible for making
recommendations to the Board within agreed terms of reference
on the Group's policy on executive Directors' remuneration
including performance-related remuneration. The Committee 
has access to professional advice from both inside and outside
the Group. In developing its remuneration policy the Committee
has taken note of the principles set out in Schedule A to the
Code. The Report on Directors' Remuneration on behalf of 
the Board is set out on pages 12 to 15.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee was chaired
until his retirement by Mr Avenel. Thereafter the Committee was
chaired by Mr Young. The other members of the committee are
Mr Button and Lord Blackwell. The Committee is responsible 
for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board having
regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
Dialogue with Shareholders The Directors have established 
a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and 
its institutional Shareholders by making presentations to
institutional investors and communicating regularly with 
such Shareholders throughout the year.
Corporate governance statement The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate
with private and institutional investors and welcomes their
participation.
Internal control The Directors have responsibility for the
Group's system of internal control. In recognition of that
responsibility the Directors set policies and require regular
assurance that the internal controls are operating effectively.
As part of the ongoing process of controls review there 
has been a phased implementation of a self assurance
programme across the UK branch network. In 2004 these 
will be supplemented with independent reviews which aim 
to cover the entire network during the course of a year.
Summary reports from this process will be submitted to the
senior management teams of the business and these will 
then be passed onto the Board as a whole.
Further assurance has been provided during 2003 by the work
undertaken by external consultants whilst performing the UK
strategic review. This review covered all aspects of the business
and reviewed both operational and financial processes.
The Directors recognise that the inherent limitations in any
system of internal control mean that the system can provide 
only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material
financial misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the system comprise:
- Assessment and management of risks A regular
assessment of strategic and operational risks has not been
documented by management and reviewed by the Board
throughout 2003. This is not in accordance with the guidance 
of the Turnbull Committee on internal control. A partial review
was undertaken by management in early 2003 and will be
followed by a full, formally documented review in 2004 and
with key actions identified. This will include regular monitoring,
investment in further resources, insurance and contingency
planning. The review findings will be presented to the Board 
and procedures set up so that this area is regularly considered 
in the future.
- Maintaining an appropriate control environment 
The Directors have established an organisation structure with
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated
authority. The Directors have delegated to executive
management the establishment and implementation of control
systems appropriate to the various businesses. Internal review
procedures, as well as a programme of regular reviews by the
executive management, provides assurance that the control
environment is operating as intended. Operating divisions are
required to prepare and regularly update business plans and
agree strategy with the Board. 
- Financial reporting system The Group has established a
comprehensive system for reporting financial information to 
the Directors. The principal elements of this include a formal
review by the Directors of detailed budgets, quarterly forecasts,
monthly management accounts and regular and detailed cash
flow forecasting and reporting.
11 Corporate Services Group
Corporate governance statement
Directors' responsibilities
Accounts, including adoption of going concern basis
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for 
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period. In preparing these accounts, 
the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and Group and enable
them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities. 
Going concern After making enquiries and as explained 
more fully in note 1 to the accounts, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.