 Cosalt plc 
Report and accounts 2003
19 Corporate governance
This Report explains the Board's application of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice (the Combined
Code), which are incorporated in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In this report the Board has adopted the  comply or explain' principle introduced by the Cadbury Report and reinforced by Higgs,
and explains where the Group does not fully comply with the recommendations, giving reasons for such non-compliance.
The Board
The Board consists of four executive and four non executive Directors and the role of Chairman and Group Managing Director 
are clearly defined and separate. Two of the non executive Directors, namely James Dean and David Hobdey are considered to
be independent. Following the publication of the revised Combined Code, two non executive Directors, namely David Bolton and
John Kelly are no longer considered to be independent as they have served on the Board for more than nine years from the date
of their first election. They do, however, have no business or other relationship with the Company or management which could
interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement and all the non executive Directors bring considerable experience,
character and expertise to the Board.
Mr Dean was appointed the senior independent non executive Director on 27th October 2003.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and for the Group's system of corporate
governance. It reviews trading performance forecasts and strategy and agrees future plans. The non executive Chairman, David
Bolton, is responsible for the running of the Board. Executive responsibility for the running of the Company's business rests with
the four executive directors, Bill Wood, Neil Carrick, Peter Nevitt and Winston Phillips (from 2 February 2004). The Directors are
provided with regular information on the Company's performance and activities and meet on a monthly basis. Meetings include 
a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board's decision and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
The Board met thirteen times during the year and all of the meetings were attended by all Directors, with the exception of 
James Dean and Adrian Thomas who did not attend two meetings and Peter Nevitt and David Hobdey who did not attend one
meeting. The non executive Directors periodically visit different parts of the Group and meet the local management. Through this
procedure the Board is able to retain full control of the Group, determining strategy and monitoring performance of objectives and
compliance with policies. Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent
professional advice if necessary, at the Company's expense. Appropriate training is available for new Directors. Executive and 
non executive Directors are formally appointed by the Board as a whole. Whilst non executive Directors are not appointed for 
a specific term, their re-election is, along with all other Directors, submitted to the shareholders in General Meeting on a rotational
basis at least once every three years and at the first opportunity after their initial appointment. Non executive Directors do not
benefit from share options or pension provisions.
A review is currently being undertaken to establish a process for the formal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and its
individual members.
Board Committees
The Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board are chaired by Mr Kelly and are constituted by the four 
non executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference and reviews the scope and findings of the Group's external Auditors and 
the Group's accounting controls and procedures through regular monitoring and a programme of internal audit reviews of controls
of operating units. 
The Committee also reviews, on behalf of the Board, the significant Group risks identified from the Risk Review exercises undertaken
by individual management teams throughout the Group. The Committee met twice during the year and all of the meetings were
attended by all of the members of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of Parent Board Directors and Senior Executives and makes
recommendations to the Main Board in connection with the Executive Share Option Schemes. The Remuneration Report is set
out on pages 16 to 18. Cosalt plc 
Report and accounts 2003
20 Corporate governance
continued
Internal controls
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate risks and therefore can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Group has formally implemented a process to identify, evaluate and manage the Group's significant risks. The principal
elements of the internal control system which were in force throughout the period covered by the financial statements and to the
date of signing the accounts are described below.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure where operating and restricted financial responsibility is clearly delegated 
to the divisional management. This allows the Group to obtain maximum benefit from their skill in the relevant business sector.
Identification and assessment of the risks inherent in each operating unit is carried out annually by means of a risk workshop
incorporating a broad cross section of management. Management have identified appropriate risk management responses to the
key risks generated by this exercise. Business risks are monitored at the monthly management meetings of the operating units
which are usually attended by the Group Managing Director and Finance Director. The Board has reviewed a report summarising
the risks for each operating unit and the Group as a whole.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system. Annual budgets are approved by the Board and
actual results are formally reviewed against budget and the prior year every month. Divisional management report monthly to the
Board on their performance, any significant variances from budget and make revisions to forecasts as appropriate. Borrowings
are controlled centrally and cash projections are prepared and monitored on a daily basis, if required, to ensure that the Group
has adequate funds and resources for the foreseeable future.
Procedures and authorisation levels for all expenditure incurred throughout the Group have been defined. Capital expenditure 
in excess of  10,000 and all acquisitions are appraised and authorised by the Board.
There is a rolling programme of internal audit reviews of operating units which are documented and any significant findings or
risks reported to the Audit Committee and appropriate action taken. The external auditors, in carrying out their work in order 
to express an opinion on the financial statements, review and test the systems of internal financial control and the information
contained in the financial statements. They report on any weaknesses found when meeting with the Audit Committee.
Going concern
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and have
adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Relations with shareholders
The Company, principally through the Group Managing Director and Finance Director, maintains a regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders and financial analysts, particularly following the interim and preliminary results announcements. The Company's
Annual General Meeting is used as the main opportunity for the Directors to communicate with private investors. The Group
maintains a website which gives additional information for shareholders. At the Annual General Meeting in March 2003 the
Chairman indicated the level of proxies received on all the resolutions following the vote by the meeting.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
The directors believe the Company is complying with all current areas of practice as detailed in the Combined Code, except 
as set out below:
  There is no formal Nominations Committee as the Board considers that given the size and composition of the Board this 
provision is inappropriate.
 Service Contracts for some Executive Directors are set at a duration in excess of one year as described in the Remuneration 
Report.
The Directors are of the opinion that these areas of non-compliance do not prejudice investors' interests and are justifiable given
the specific circumstances of the Company. Cosalt plc 
Report and accounts 2003
21 Statement of Directors' responsibilities for accounts
Statement of Directors' responsibilities for accounts
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the period, and of the profit or loss for that period. In preparing those
accounts the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the accounts;
 prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.