 48 Crest Nicholson PLC
COMPLIANCE
The Company is committed to attaining the highest
standards of corporate governance and has complied
throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined
Code (the Code) published in June 1998 and the
supplementary guidance provided by the Turnbull Report
in September 1999, except as follows:
 In view of the size and composition of the Board, the
Company did not previously consider it appropriate to
recognise a Senior Independent Director as required
by provision A 2.1 of the Code; however, on 28th
January 2003 Mr R F Erith was appointed Senior
Independent Director.
  Mr J Callcutt has a notice period longer than one year.
This contract was agreed prior to the issue of the
Combined Code and does not comply with provision 
B 1.7 of the Code. All of the other Executive Directors
have contracts containing notice periods of one year or
less.
The Code established fourteen principles of good
governance which are divided into four main categories.
These categories and the means by which the Company
has complied with them are explained below. 
DIRECTORS
The Board consists of five Executive Directors and three
Non-Executive Directors. Of the latter, all are considered to
be totally independent within the meaning of provision 
A 3.2 of the Code. 
The Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of
appointment expiring as follows:
Mr J W Matthews 31st December 2004
Mr R F Erith 30th June 2003
Mr L J Wigglesworth 18th September 2003
It is a requirement of the Company's Articles of
Association that each Director should offer himself for 
re-election every three years. The Articles similarly
stipulate that any Director appointed by the Board is also
required to offer himself for re-election by the shareholders
at the first Annual General Meeting after such appointment.
All members of the Board are equally accountable
under the law for the proper stewardship of the Company's
affairs. The Non-Executive Directors are, however,
independent of management and free from any business
or other relationship with the Company, enabling them to
bring an independent judgement to bear on issues brought
before the Board. There is a clear division of responsibility
between the independent Non-Executive Chairman, Mr J W
Matthews, and the full time Chief Executive, Mr J Callcutt,
to whom the Board has delegated responsibility for
running the Company.
corporate governance
The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and has an
agreed schedule of matters reserved to it for collective
decision. These include strategic policies, corporate
performance reviews and overall financial and
organisational control. It is supplied in a timely manner
with information in a form and of a quality that is
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
A formal procedure exists to allow Directors to take
independent professional advice and the Company will meet
such reasonable expenses that arise in taking such advice.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary for his
advice and services, and training is available for new and
existing Directors, as and when required.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the
members of which are the Directors listed below. Mr P C
Nicholson was also a member of all three Committees until
his retirement on 31st March 2002.
Audit Committee
Mr R F Erith (Chairman)
Mr J W Matthews
Mr L J Wigglesworth
The Audit Committee meets at least three times each year
and provides a link between the Board and the Company's
internal and external auditors on matters coming within
the scope of the Group audit. These matters include
accounting standards and policies, internal financial and
non-financial control procedures, and the Group accounts. 
The duties of the Audit Committee include keeping under
review the scope and results of the audit and its cost
effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the
auditors. The Committee also reviews all Preliminary and
Interim Statements before announcements are made. The
Committee does not become involved in the day to day
running of the business, which remains the responsibility
of the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee
Mr J W Matthews (Chairman)
Mr R F Erith
Mr L J Wigglesworth
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice each
year to establish and review, in consultation with the Chief
Executive, the remuneration and terms of employment of
Executive Directors and certain senior executives. In
particular, the Committee determines specific
remuneration packages for each Executive Director. The
fees for the Non-Executive Directors are decided by a
Committee of the Board comprising only Executive
Directors. The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 51
to 57. corporate governance
Nomination Committee
Mr J W Matthews (Chairman)
Mr R F Erith
Mr L J Wigglesworth
Mr J Callcutt
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary to assess
the suitability of persons for appointment as Directors and,
when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the
approval of the Board.
The Board has also established the following Committees:
Executive Committee
This Committee comprises the Executive Directors and the
Company Secretary. The Committee meets regularly
throughout the year and acts in an advisory capacity in
the creation and implementation of policy, trading
strategies and the taking of major decisions. 
Committee for Social Responsibility
During 2002 the Board established the Committee for
Social Responsibility which is charged with managing the
Company's ethical, social and environmental policies so as
to achieve a balance between its commercial objectives
and its obligations to society at large. Its members are 
Mr J Callcutt (Chairman), Mr R F Erith, Mr L J
Wigglesworth, the Company Secretary and the
Environmental Manager.
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
Please refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 57.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company encourages active dialogue with its private
and institutional shareholders, both current and
prospective. Meetings are held with institutional
shareholders on a regular basis. Shareholders are also
kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual
and Interim Reports and the Company's website. Save in
exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board
attend the Annual General Meeting which is used to
communicate with private investors. Their participation is
encouraged through a question and answer session during
the Meeting.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
A review of the Group's performance and financial position
is included in the Chairman's Statement, Operating Review
and Financial Review. The Board uses these and the
Directors' Report to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company's position and
prospects. The statement of Directors' responsibilities is
shown on page 26 and the going concern statement is
shown on page 18.
As indicated above, the Company has an established
Audit Committee to whom the external auditors, KPMG
Audit Plc, and the Group's Internal Auditor, report.
As regards internal control, the Directors acknowledge
responsibility for the systems set up within the Group for
this purpose and for reviewing their effectiveness. They are
designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. The Company
complies with the Code's principles on internal control
reporting and throughout the year has operated the
procedures necessary to implement the supplementary
guidance contained in the Turnbull Report.
The Group has the following established framework of
internal controls:
Financial Reporting
There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual
budget and associated three year plan approved by the
Directors. Actual results (or performance) are reported
against budget and revised forecasts of profit, cash flow
and balance sheets are prepared each month. The
Company reports to shareholders on a half yearly basis.
Operating Unit Controls
Controls and procedures, including information systems
controls, are detailed in policy and procedure manuals
which are subject to regular review. An Authority Manual
details the general principles of and specifies the limits
arising from the delegation of authority within the Group.
Day to day control is exercised by the members of the
Executive Committee (see above). 
Risk Identification
The Group has established a Risk Review Committee (a
sub-committee of the Executive Committee) which meets
on a regular basis to assess and review the risks facing the
business on an on-going basis and to ensure that
reasonable levels of control are implemented to address
those risks.
Investment Appraisal
The Group has clearly defined systems for the authorisation
and control of projects, which are set out in a Project
Manual. The key element is the Project Committee (a sub-
committee of the Executive Committee) which is
responsible for the authorisation of all major projects. 
Centralised Functions
A number of the Group's key functions are controlled
centrally. These include finance, treasury, banking,
taxation, pensions, insurance, information technology,
human resources, health & safety, public relations and
secretarial.
49 Crest Nicholson PLC 50 Crest Nicholson PLC
corporate governance
Internal Control Systems and Procedures Review
The Company has developed a review process which
enables key elements of internal control systems and
procedures to be monitored, with the aim of identifying
areas of weakness and ensuring that the appropriate
corrective action is taken. The process includes a review
by the Board on an annual basis, and by the Risk
Review Committee at each of its regular meetings each
year. The review focuses on five principal areas of
interest:
  Control environment
  Identification and evaluation of risks and controls
objectives
  Information and communication
  Control procedures
  Monitoring and corrective actions
Internal Audit
The Company maintains an internal audit unit which
reports to the Audit Committee. It is charged with
carrying out examinations and investigations which
assist in providing the Audit Committee with reasonable
assurance of:
  compliance with established policies and procedures
  the reliability and integrity of information
  the safeguarding of assets and the economical and
efficient use of resources    