 Corporate Governance Report 
Creston plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 28 
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority (the Combined Code ). The Board sets out its report below on 
how the Group has applied the principles and complied with the Combined Code during the year ended 31 March 2006.  
Compliance Statement 
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group has complied with all the provisions of Section 1 of the 
Combined Code. 
The Board of Directors 
During the year, the Board comprised a Chairman, who is non-executive, two Executive Directors and two Non-
Executive Directors. All the Non-Executive Directors consider themselves to be independent and Mr D J Hanger is the 
senior independent Non-Executive Director. Notwithstanding the fact that the Chairman has been a Director for more 
than 11 years, the Board consider this involvement to start from January 2001 when Creston re-listed as a marketing 
services company. Through the Chairman's directorship of Western Selection P.L.C., a significant shareholder of Creston, 
the Chairman has an interest in Creston similar to that of a shareholder. Therefore his interests are aligned with those  
of other shareholders and are viewed by the Board as allowing the Chairman to act independently of management. 
The Board met on seven occasions during the year following a formal agenda. The Board is provided with monthly 
management account packs and other relevant information in a timely manner and in a form and quality that it considers 
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.  
 
No. of 
meetings in 
year DCM DHE BCB DJH PJC 
Board (scheduled) 7 7 7 7 7 7 
Audit Committee 2 2 - - 2 2 
Remuneration 
Committee 4 4 - - 4 4 
Nominations 
Committee - - - - - - 
The Board is responsible for the leadership of the Company and the Group, and in discharging that responsibility it 
makes decisions objectively and in the best interests of the Group. The Board sets the vision, values and standards  
for the Group. The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility to the executive management. It determines their duties 
and reviews performance against agreed budgets and against the Group's objectives, values and standards, including 
employment, environmental and health and safety policies as set out in the Group policies and procedures. 
The balance of the Board, together with the advice sought from the Operating Board and the Company's external 
advisors, ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision. 
The separation of the Chairman's role from the discharging of executive responsibilities has been clearly defined 
throughout the year. The Chairman is responsible for the effective performance of the Board through a schedule of 
matters reserved for approval by the Board (comprising of issues considered most significant to the Group in terms  
of financial impact and risk) and control of the Board agenda. The Chairman conducts Board and shareholder meetings 
and ensures that all Directors are properly briefed. The Chief Executive, supported by the Chief Operating and Financial 
Officer, is responsible to the Board for running the business and implementing Group strategy. 
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professionals at the Company's 
expense. Training is available for Directors as necessary. New Directors will receive an induction programme and all  
the Directors are encouraged to continue professional education programmes. The Company has arranged appropriate 
insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors. 
Committee meetings are held independently of Board meetings and invitations to attend are extended by the 
Committee Chairman to other Directors, the Group's advisors and management as appropriate. 
A representative of the Company Secretary attends all Board meetings to record proceedings and is available to  
advise on any corporate governance issues that may arise. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in his duties  
of ensuring efficient communication between all Directors, the Committees and senior management as well as the 
professional development of Directors. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee 
and the Remuneration Committee including their roles and the authority delegated to it by the Board are available  
on request and on the investor relations section of the Group's website (www.creston.com). 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprised Mr D C Marshall (Chairman), Mr D J Hanger and Mr P J Cunard throughout the  
year ended 31 March 2006. The auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee and are invited to attend the two 
formal meetings to review the interim and full-year results. The Audit Committee also meets to address specific issues as 
appropriate. It deals with the annual accounts and important audit, accounting and taxation matters as well as compliance 
with legal requirements and it monitors the adequacy of the Group's internal controls and accounting policies.    
www.creston.com 29
The Audit Committee also considers the continuing appointment of the auditors and their fees. It ensures the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors through a careful review of their terms of engagement and  
scope of work. This includes reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services supplied by the external auditors  
to the Group, seeking to balance objectivity and value for money. 
The external auditors are excluded from providing services where the threat to their independence is considered  
to be too great (for example systems design and implementation, management functions or human resources). 
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee comprised Mr D C Marshall (Chairman), Mr D H Elgie, Mr D J Hanger and Mr P J Cunard 
throughout the year ended 31 March 2006. The appointment of Directors is a formal process involving proposal by the 
Nominations Committee and the approval of the whole Board. The Nominations Committee will undertake whatever 
process is most appropriate for the identification of suitable candidates and their assessment, taking into account any 
other commitments that they have. Appointments are made on merit and are considered against objective criteria. 
All Directors are required to retire every three years and may offer themselves for re-election, which is not automatic.  
As a long-term growth company, it is appropriate for Directors to serve on the Board for more than a single term, 
subject to continuing satisfactory performance. Given its small size, changes to the composition of the Board are 
infrequent, however progressive refreshing of the Board may occur through further appointments, which will be made 
commensurate with the growth of the Company.  
Directors' Performance Evaluation 
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual 
Directors. Individual evaluation aims to show whether each Director continues to contribute effectively and to 
demonstrate commitment to the role (including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and other 
duties). The Chairman acts on the results of the performance evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the 
weaknesses of the Board and, where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the Board or seeking the 
resignation of Directors. 
The Chairman is responsible for the annual evaluation process and acts on its outcome. Each Director submits a  
self-appraisal to the Chairman in respect of their individual performance, in respect of the performance of the Board  
and in respect of each Board committee of which they are a member. The self appraisal is discussed by the Chairman 
with the Director. 
For the Board and its committees, the appraisal considers actual performance against performance objectives, terms  
of reference, communication, effectiveness, flexibility and contribution to risk management. 
Creston Operating Board 
Creston's Operating Board is the key forum for the operational management of the Group and the Board believes that 
it is a vital element in harnessing the entrepreneurial talent of the subsidiary management's expertise and experience. 
The role of the Operating Board is to: 
  debate and agree as to the strategic development of the Group; 
  evaluate the performance of the Group companies; 
  evaluate and agree on acquisition opportunities; and 
  identify synergy and cross-selling opportunities for shared business. 
The current members of the Operating Board are: 
Don Elgie Chief Executive and Chairman of the Operating Board 
Barrie Brien Chief Operating and Financial Officer 
Keith Bates Managing Director of MSL 
Graham Monk Managing Director of TRA 
Glenn Orr Chairman of the EMO Group 
Jeremy Martin Joint Managing Directors of CML Research  
Grant Litchfield 
}
(in rotation) 
 
Roger Nelson Co-Managing Directors of NBC 
Martin Bostock 
}
(in rotation) 
 
Greg Delaney Chairman of DLKW group 
Mark Lund Chief Executive of the DLKW group 
Catherine Warne Managing Director of Red Door 
Simon Williams Group Synergy and Strategy Director 
Chris Warren Managing Director of TMW 
Nick Sparrow Managing Director of ICM Group 
As Creston's expansion continues the format and structure of the Operating Board will be kept under review. 
Nominations to the Operating Board are at the discretion of the Executive Board of Creston plc. 
 