 Annual Report & Accounts
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Company has adequate financial
resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason the  going concern
basis' has been adopted in preparing the accounts.
Auditors
Following the conversion of our auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, to a Limited Liability Partnership
(LLP) from 1st January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers
resigned on 13th March 2003 and the directors appointed
its successor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as auditors.
Resolution 9 will be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as
auditors to the Company.
By order of the board
S M Smith, Secretary
Solihull
21st March 2003
The board supports the principles of corporate governance
advocated by the Combined Code and complied with its
provisions in the year under review. It also notes Derek
Higgs' Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-
executive Directors and Sir Robert Smith's Report and
Proposed Combined Code Guidance for Audit
Committees. In addition, during 2002, the board
considered and, where appropriate, implemented the
guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) issued
by the Association of British Insurers in October 2001. The
board takes full responsibility for CSR and it is included in
the risk management process.
The board of directors
The board meets regularly and in total met seven times
during 2002. Matters specifically reserved to the board for
decision include material capital expenditure, approval of
annual budgets and the development of corporate
strategy. The board takes regular account of significant
risks to the Group including social, environmental and
ethical issues. It has identified and assessed short and
long-term risks and ensured that effective systems are in
place for management of these risks.
The board of directors of the Company currently
comprises the non-executive chairman, three executive
directors and four further non-executive directors. The
roles of group chairman and group chief executive are held
by separate directors and there is a clear division of
responsibilities between them. Management reports fully
to the board at each board meeting and additionally as
required. All directors are suitably qualified and trained or
experienced so as to be able to participate in the work of
the board. Vic Cocker has been nominated as senior non-
executive director. Non-executive directors are appointed
for an initial term of 3 years pursuant to a letter of
appointment. Details of fees paid during the year are set
out on page 20. 
In July 2003, Kit Farrow will have been a member of
the board for ten years. Tony Wilson does not meet the
test of independence under the recommendations
outlined in the Higgs Report. It is not their intention to
stand for re-election in 2004. The board expects to make
further suitable non-executive appointments during the
course of 2003. The board has also announced the
executive appointment of Judy George and she will join
the board as US retail director from 1st July 2003.
The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate
accountability and participate fully in the review of
strategic proposals to help ensure that the interests of
shareholders and relevant stakeholders in the Company
are safeguarded.
All directors have access to the advice and services of
the group secretary, who, with the chairman, is
responsible for the proper conduct of board procedures.
The group secretary reports to the chairman upon
secretarial matters. To assist with the independent
conduct of their function, the non-executive directors are
able to obtain professional advice at the Company's
expense, if required in connection with their duties. 
Audit committee
The audit committee was chaired by Kit Farrow until
March 2003 and is now chaired by John Lovering. It normally
meets at least three times each year and did so in 2002.
Membership comprises all non-executive directors of the
Company. It has written terms of reference which deal with
its authority and duties which include keeping under review
the scope and results of the audit and the
Report of the directors
Corporate governance
17 FOODSERVICE GROUP
cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the
auditors. In addition, the committee receives reports from
internal audit and specialists from within the Group. The
committee also considers the nature and extent of auditors'
supply of non-audit services, such as consultancy services.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee is under the chairmanship of
Kit Farrow. The committee meets as and when required
and met twice during 2002. Membership comprises the
non-executive directors and such executive directors as
may be co-opted, provided that a majority of non-
executive directors is maintained at all times. The
committee has written terms of reference and is
responsible for nominating candidates with required skills
and attributes for approval by the full board to fill
vacancies on the board and ensure that the board has an
appropriate balance of expertise and ability.
Remuneration committee 
As detailed in the remuneration report on page 19.
Internal control and risk management
The board is responsible for the Group's systems of
internal control, including internal financial control,
operational and compliance controls and risk
management and for monitoring their effectiveness. The
board confirms that it has established procedures
necessary to implement the Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code. The meeting calendar and agenda of the
board ensure that risk management and internal control
are considered on a regular basis throughout the year and
are subject to continuous review and development.
Throughout the Group's operations, regular management
and board meetings review all aspects of the Group's
businesses, including those where there are potential risks
to the Group. Key procedures include planning, budgeting
and investment appraisal. All operations have quarterly
reviews with the executive directors to discuss
performance and strategy.
Systems of internal control are designed to provide
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the Group's
assets are safeguarded and that the financial information
and accounting records are reliable. 
The board has reserved, for its own approval, those
major decisions considered significant to the strategy and
operation of the Group as a whole. A control structure is
in place throughout the Group which requires at least two
appropriate levels of authorisation for other decisions
which have a major financial implication for the
businesses concerned. Continual monitoring of the
systems of internal financial control is the responsibility of
all management teams.
The Group has clearly defined guidelines for the
appraisal, approval and monitoring of acquisitions and
divestments, major capital investments and restructuring
costs. These include budgets (covering quantification of
benefits), detailed review and monitoring procedures,
specific levels of expenditure authority and due diligence
where businesses are being acquired. 
The board has approved operating policies and
controls for the Group's treasury activities and receives
regular information about them. In addition, the audit
committee and the board receive regular reports on the
Group's insurance and risk management programmes. 
The head of the Group's internal audit department
reports to the group finance director and has access to the
chairman of the audit committee. The department has an
annually agreed programme, which is approved by the
audit committee. External auditors consider the systems
of internal financial control, in conjunction with the internal
auditors, to the extent necessary to express their audit
opinion. Internal and external auditors report regularly on
the results of their work to management, including executive
members of the board, and to the audit committee. The
board will continue to review the effectiveness of the
Group's internal financial control systems.
Following a review of risk across the Group, a basis to
assess relevant risks was agreed and disseminated. This
ensures that appropriate risk reviews are carried out at
each business, taking account of the likelihood of
occurrence and degree of impact. Risks considered
include operational and financial contingencies and
compliance with legal and regulatory issues. In 2002 the
risk management process included social, environmental
and ethical issues and in 2003 these will be grouped
under the heading of Corporate Social Responsibility. A full
risk and control assessment has been prepared in respect
of the year to 31st December 2002 and will be updated
during 2003. 
Risk factors
As noted above, risk assessment of CSR issues was
introduced in 2002. Although the board is confident of
compliance with its CSR policies within Group companies,
the review of the supply chain on CSR issues is on-going. It
is intended to extend this review during 2003. 
Relations and communications with shareholders
Meetings are held between directors of the Company and
major institutional shareholders at regular intervals as part
of the Company's investor relations programme and as
necessary in relation to specific issues.
Corporate governance
18