 Whilst the Group is not required to comply under Combined Code 2006, the Group is committed to high standards of Corporate
Governance and considers sound governance and transparency to be fundamental to achieving its objective of enhancing shareholder
value. The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Group in accordance with the principles of corporate governance contained
in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, in so far as is practicable for a company of its size.
The Board of directors
The Board comprises four executive directors and three non-executive directors. Its role is to determine the strategic direction of the
Group within a framework of best practice corporate governance and prudent and effective controls which enables risks to be assessed
and managed. It sets the Group's values and standards, including matters relating to corporate social responsibility and ensures that its
obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met. 
The mix of skills and business experience of the non-executive directors is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the Board,
ensuring matters are debated and that no individual or group dominates the Board decision-making process. 
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include:
> The acquisition or disposal of a business or of shares in a company; 
> The establishment of a new business or closure of an existing business; 
> The annual budget and strategic plan; 
> Significant capital expenditure, IT equipment and leasing arrangements; 
> Proposed contracts satisfying specific criteria; 
> Changes to the organisation structure or management structure; and 
> Dividend policy.
The Board is assisted by certain committees and a description of the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to them is set
out below.
Audit Committee
The company has established an Audit Committee comprised of the non-executive directors. The Audit Committee meets not less than
three times per year and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the auditors and the audit fee,
reviewing the conduct and control of the annual audit and reviewing the operation of the internal financial control environment. It also
has responsibility for the reporting of the financial performance of the Group and for reviewing financial statements prior to publication.
Remuneration Committee
The company has established a Remuneration Committee currently comprised of the non-executive directors. It reviews the
performance of the executive directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and the basis of their service agreements
with due regard to the interest of shareholders. The Remuneration Committee also determines the allocation of share options to
employees. It is a rule of the Remuneration Committee that a director shall not participate in discussions or decisions concerning
his/her own remuneration.
The Group has adopted the Model Code for directors' dealings as set out in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and as
applicable to AiM companies and will take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by directors and relevant employees.
Nominations Committee
The company has established a Nominations Committee comprising one executive director, the non-executive directors and the
Chairman of the company. The Nominations Committee will meet at least twice a year and is responsible for reviewing the Board
structure, size and composition, making recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary 
and identifying candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board places as and when they arise.
Corporate Governance
36 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Governance Approval and Allotment Committee
The company has established an Approval and Allotment Committee comprising the executive directors and the Company Secretary. 
The Approval and Allotment Committee will meet as and when required and will be responsible for approving matters relating to the
interim and final accounts process, the entry into contracts, acquisitions and disposals, the entry into parent company guarantees and
treasury related contracts and the allotment of shares pursuant to the company's employee share schemes. 
Board processes
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring new directors receive appropriate training. Upon flotation of the company on
AiM, the Board had already been in place for a number of years. Following the flotation, the Board, together with directors of subsidiary
companies, received formal training provided by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. The Board is developing a
formal programme which will ensure new directors, as well as existing directors, receive appropriate training, particularly in the areas 
of legal, regulatory and accounting developments. This will include an induction pack, which incorporates background information 
about Cyril Sweett and its directors and details of Board procedures, directors' responsibilities and various governance-related issues.
Further training is provided as and when necessary and may be identified as part of the annual evaluation process.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there is a procedure for directors to seek independent
professional advice, in furtherance of their duties, at the company's expense. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are followed. The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman,
ensures that the information presented to the Board is not only timely but of sufficient quality to enable members to make an 
informed decision.
There were eight full Board and six other Board meetings during the financial year . The table below details the attendance by directors 
at Board meetings during the year:
Attendance
Executive
Francis Ives 11
Dean Webster 13
Michael Kemsley 14
Derek Pitcher 13
Jimmi Bradbury (resigned on 30 August 2007) 3
Andrew Hemsley (resigned on 30 August 2007) 3
Non-executive
Michael Henderson 7
Roger Mabey 8
Nicholas Woollacott (appointed on 21 November 2007) 2
In addition there were two meetings of the Audit Committee with full attendance.
Following the admission to AiM, all directors are submitted for re-election at regular intervals of not more than three years at the Annual
General Meeting, subject to continued satisfactory performance. The non-executive directors will be submitted for re-election at the
forthcoming AGM.
Board performance and evaluation
The Board is committed to evaluating its own performance. The Board is currently finalising a formal annual evaluation programme 
for its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors. The evaluation process will be used constructively as a
mechanism to improve Board effectiveness, maximise strengths and tackle weaknesses.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee has approved the development of an internal audit function and proposals are currently being considered for the
development of an implementation plan.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the nomination committee, for specified terms. 
They are subject to periodic re-appointment by shareholders and statutory provisions regarding removal.
Governance
Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Governance
37 All three non-executive directors have significant external commercial experience, and bring expert advice and strong judgement to the
Board. The Board believes that the non-executive directors are independent of management and have no business or other relationships
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Board believes that the relatively low value of
shares held by non-executive directors does not impair their independence.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is detailed in the Directors' remuneration report.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for establishing, reviewing and maintaining the Group's systems of internal control and risk management and
ensuring that these systems are effective for managing the business risk within the Group. The Group has established a framework for
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. The framework of risk management and internal control
operating within the Group has been in place throughout the year and is designed to safeguard shareholders' investments and the
Group's assets whilst ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained. This framework is reviewed annually.
It is the responsibility of management to ensure that the controls and procedures that operate within the framework are followed and
that the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and control issues, both operational and financial. The Board recognises that any
system of internal control exists to minimise the risk of failure rather than eliminate it, and that any system of internal control can only
provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk management of joint ventures and strategic partnerships is agreed between the parties and periodic reviews carried out where
appropriate.
The Group annually reviews the effectiveness of the risk management system and its internal controls.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to a continuing dialogue with its shareholders. Following the announcement and presentation of the interim and
year end results, there is a series of formal meetings with institutional shareholders. These meetings enable the executive directors 
to appraise the investors of the Group's business and future plans and the shareholders can communicate any concerns they may have.
The Group's brokers and financial PR advisors provide feedback from the shareholder and analyst meetings and present the results 
to the Board.
The Group's investor relations section on its website contains information on the Group's financial results and its stock exchange
announcements. Additionally, the AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders. All shareholders are invited to attend the AGM 
and all members of the Board will be available at the meeting to answer questions. Full Interim and Annual Reports are made available
to all shareholders.
Corporate Governance
Continued
38 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Governance