 D ATAFLEX HOLDINGS PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to applying the highest principles of Corporate Governance commensurate with its size.
The Directors are required to report their application of the principles of Section 1 of the code to enable shareholders
to evaluate how the principles have been applied. The main areas are outlined below, including the Directors'
consideration of internal controls. In addition, the various other reports contained in these accounts, notably the Report
on Remuneration, further explain how the Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code.
Compliance
The Company has complied throughout the year with the code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined
Code, except that the Board of the Company does not comply with code provision A.3.2 being that the majority
of the non-executive directors should be independent, code provision B.3.2. being that the remuneration
committee should consist exclusively of non-executive directors who are independent and code provision D.3.1.
being that the audit committee should be composed of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The Board believes that the current composition of the Board is suitable for the size of the company.
The Board
The Company supports the concept of an effective board leading and controlling the Company. The Board is
responsible for approving Company policy and strategy. The Board of Directors of the Company currently comprise
two executive Directors, one of whom is Group Chief Executive Officer, and three non-executive Directors, one
of whom is the Company's non-executive Chairman. This provides a balance whereby an individual or small group
cannot dominate the Board's decision making. The profiles of the Directors are set out on page 7. The non-
executive Chairman and the other non-executive Directors form a strong element in the Board whose opinions
carry significant weight in decision-making. Dr. Leonard is the senior independent non-executive director to whom
concerns can be conveyed. All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their
appointment and are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
A timetable of monthly Board meetings is agreed well in advance to ensure that, other than in exceptional
circumstances, each Director will be present in order to bring his own independent judgement to bear on issues
of strategy, performance, resources, and standards of conduct. The Board meetings follow a strict schedule of
recurring items to ensure that major developments for the group are reserved specifically for the Board and that
management provide sufficient information to the Board in order for them to be properly briefed. From time to
time the Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters of significance or new
opportunities to the group.
The Company engages independent professional financial and legal advisers and allows the Directors access to such
advice where they deem it necessary, although the Board has the right to ensure the level of such expenditure is
reasonable. The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board of Directors determines the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Company's strategy and
performance and therefore holds regular meetings with analysts and institutional investors, usually following the
announcement of interim and final results, to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and complete
view of the group's performance and to discuss objectives. The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate
with private investors and they are encouraged to participate through the provision of the annual report and
accounts and the interim report and accounts.
The entire Board of Directors is expected to be present at the Annual General Meeting and the Chairman of the
Board and Audit and Remuneration Committees will be available at the meeting to answer questions. There is a
resolution to approve the annual report and accounts and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue so that
they can be given proper consideration.
10 D ATAFLEX HOLDINGS PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
11
It is the Company's intention this year to indicate the level of proxies lodged in respect of each resolution at the
Annual General Meeting, the balance for and against the resolution, after each resolution has been dealt with by a
show of hands. 
The Company maintains information about its activities on its website, www.dataflex.com.
Accountability and audit
The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and prospects in all
interim and price-sensitive reports and reports to regulators as well as in the information required to be presented
by statutory requirements. 
A statement of Directors' responsibilities is set out on page 9, which should be read with reference to the group's
financial statements set out on pages 17 to 40.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has a primary responsibility for monitoring the quality of internal control and ensuring that the
financial performance of the group is properly measured and reported on and for reviewing reports from the group's
external auditors relating to the group's accounting and internal controls. The Audit Committee has written terms of
reference and comprises two non-executive Directors, namely Dr. Jack Leonard (non-executive Chairman) and Dr.
Paul Castle. The Group Chief Financial Officer normally attends and the other Directors have the right to attend if
invited by the Chairman of the Committee. The Audit Committee meets at least twice during the year to monitor
the effectiveness of the group's internal controls, accounting policies and financial reporting. It will meet with external
auditors to review their plan for the audit, discuss any matters arising from their audit visits and review any reports
that they may produce. The Committee will review the level of service provided to the group by the auditors to
ensure cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors and the scope and results of the audit. The
non-executive Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on the progress of the Committee meetings.
Remuneration Committee
The Board also has a formally constituted Remuneration Committee comprising two non-executive Directors,
namely Dr. Jack Leonard (non-executive Chairman) and Dr. Paul Castle. The committee has written terms of
reference and meets several times throughout the year to consider the terms and conditions of service, including
the remuneration and grant of options to executive Directors under the Share Option Schemes.
Nomination Committee
The Directors are of the opinion that the size of the Company does not yet justify the formation of a separate
nomination committee.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment
and the Company's assets. Such a system is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives. There are inherent limitations in any control system and accordingly even the most effective
system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed its risk management process and has identified areas where procedures need to be
changed or installed. The Board has reviewed the system of internal control in line with D.2.1. of the Combined
Code. In respect of this the entire system of controls was considered at two board meetings during the year and
the board consider the current internal controls to be sufficient. 
The Board is presently considering whether the size of the Company justifies an internal audit function and this
decision will be under annual review. The Directors are responsible for the group's system of internal control and
reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board reviews the operation and effectiveness of the group's
system of internal control on an ongoing basis. D ATAFLEX HOLDINGS PLC AND ITS SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The following are the main features of the internal control framework:
a) Financial reporting. There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly trading results, balance sheets and cash flow statements are reported against budget and updated
forecasts are presented to the Board. At each Board meeting a forecast for the full year is presented after taking
the current trading conditions into account. The three non-executive Directors attend monthly meetings, which
enables them to be fully informed regarding the performance of the trading subsidiaries.
b) T reasury management. The Board is supplied with details of the Company's cash position on a regular monthly
basis and the cash position is discussed at each Board meeting.
c) Risk management. There is an ongoing process for identifying and reviewing the principal risks affecting the
group's business and evaluating their financial implications. This is carried out in conjunction with operating
Company management and steps are taken, where possible, to mitigate or manage the risks identified. Insurance
is managed centrally to ensure consistency of cover.
d) Operational controls. The operating Company maintains financial controls and procedures appropriate to its
own business environment and consistent with overall group policies.
e) Compliance controls. The group maintains controls and procedures to ensure it complies at all times with
relevant United Kingdom laws and regulations.
In respect of risk management, detailed reviews of the group's business sectors have taken place with local
management taking account of the harsh telecoms trading environment. As a result of revenue forecasts provided
by Dataflex, Inc. the board concluded that it could not justify the funding of further losses and Dataflex, Inc. was
closed on 21 December 2001. In addition, other actions included office closures and staff reductions, ensuring
where possible, that current revenue streams and future product developments were not jeopardised.
Going concern
The Directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Brian Jobson
Director, Company Secretary
25 July 2002
12