 Dawson Holdings PLC 27
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two
other non-executive directors and two executive
directors. Biographical details of the directors are given
on page 4. The Board meets seven times a year and
additionally as required.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company
Secretary who organises all Board matters and can only
be removed by agreement of the Board as a whole.
They also have access to independent professional
advice where required. No executive director has a
contract of employment longer than one year.
The Board has a clearly documented schedule of
matters reserved for it including the agreement of
strategies and budgets, approval of major capital
expenditure and policies covering treasury options.
Each month, members of the Board receive summary
financial and operating results for each business area
compared to the annual budget and the latest of the
quarterly forecast updates. In addition, they receive a
narrative review and explanation of the results from the
divisional directors and the Group Finance Director.
Board balance
The executive directors on the Board consist of
Mr David Blundell, Group Managing Director and
Mr David Lowther, Group Finance Director, who is also
responsible for all head office support activities and the
Books library supply operation.
The Board contains three non-executive directors, one
of whom acts in the capacity of Chairman. Dr Neil Cross
is the recognised senior non-executive member. All
three non-executive directors are independent of
management (except for commercial transactions with
Mr M V L Pearce as disclosed in note 25 to the financial
statements) and free from any business or other
relationships, which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement. The Board believes that an
effective balance of power is maintained and that it is
not possible for an individual or small group of
individuals to dominate the Board's decision taking.
Appointments to the Board
A Nomination Committee consisting of the non-
executive directors and the senior executive director has
been appointed to consider recommendations to the
Board for appointment of new directors.
Directors' remuneration
The membership of the Remuneration Committee is
shown on page 17 of the Remuneration Committee
report. This report also shows details of how the Code
principles with respect to directors' remuneration have
been applied.
Relations with shareholders
The directors meet with institutional shareholders and
analysts on a regular basis with the intention of
developing their understanding of the business through
formal presentations.
Following the publication of its annual report, the Board
holds an annual general meeting (AGM) at which the
full participation of private shareholders is encouraged.
Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least
twenty working days before the meeting. All of the
directors including the Chairmen of each of the Audit
and Remuneration Committees are in attendance and
are available to answer questions. At the meeting, the
level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be
available. A separate resolution is proposed on each
substantially separate issue and there is a separate
resolution relative to the report and accounts.
Internal control
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the
company's system of internal control and for reviewing
its effectiveness. Such a system can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives. The group's system as a whole is designed to
provide directors with reasonable assurance that
problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with
appropriately.
The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the
effectiveness of the system of internal control, including
financial, operational, compliance and associated risk
management, is reviewed by the Board at least annually.
In addition, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on
the Combined Code (The Turnbull Report ) was
published in September 1999 to provide guidance to
directors in respect of this requirement.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the
company. This has been in place for the full financial
year, has been reviewed by the Board and accords with
the Internal Control Guidance for Directors produced by
the Turnbull working party.
During the accounting period to 28th September 2002
the group operated under an established internal
control framework, key elements of which include:
Annual budgets and three year plans are reviewed and
accepted by the Board prior to implementation
throughout the group.
Corporate Governance
This statement describes how the principles of The Combined Code issued by the
London Stock Exchange in June 1998 are applied by the company. Dawson Holdings PLC 28
The group manages its business by monitoring
performance against budget and forecast updates
during the year.
The group has clear procedures for the delegation of
authority deriving from the list of matters reserved for
the decision of the Board including the approval of
capital expenditure.
Each division has its own executive management
meeting on a monthly basis to discuss financial and
operational issues relating to the division. These
meetings include reviews of reports relating to a variety
of aspects of performance and control. In addition,
monthly meetings are held involving all divisional
Managing Directors, the Group Managing Director and
Group Finance Director. Here the key performance and
control points arising from individual divisions are
discussed, along with broader issues relating to the
group as a whole.
The group's system of internal control at key operations
is regularly reviewed by the Internal Audit team.
Corrective action is taken by the Internal Audit team
after review by the Board and Audit Committee.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the business has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future and therefore have adopted the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee, consisting of the three non-
executive directors and chaired by Dr Neil Cross, meets
at least three times a year. This provides a forum for
frank communication with the company's auditors and
enables direction to be given for the implementation of
any necessary improvements in Internal Financial
Control processes that result from the formal review of
the control environment and business risk undertaken
during the year. The Audit Committee also reviews the
nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the
company's auditors. This is a safeguard to avoid the
possibility that the auditors' objectivity and
independence could be compromised.
A yearly review has been introduced during the period
ended 28th September 2002, which is undertaken by
the Audit Committee in order to assess the auditors'
independence.
The Board has agreed the auditors' appointment and
fees will in future, subject to shareholder approval, be
settled by the Audit Committee.
In considering their appointment for other services the
services provided are divided into the following
categories:
 Audit related services - This is work that, in their
position as auditors, they must or are best placed
to undertake, such as due diligence, due to their
knowledge of the business.
 Tax consulting - Deloitte & Touche are only used
where they are best suited to the company's
requirements.
 Non-audit related services are put out to tender
to other service providers.
No system consulting work has been undertaken for the
company by Deloitte & Touche.
Compliance
The Board considers that the company was in full
compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined
Code throughout the financial year.
Statement of directors'
responsibilities in respect of the
financial statements
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to
prepare financial statements for each financial year
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the company and of the group at the end of the
financial year and of the profit of the group for that
period. In preparing those financial statements, the
directors are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply
them on a consistent basis, making judgements
and estimates that are prudent and reasonable
 State whether applicable accounting standards
have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements, and
 Prepare the financial statements on a going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the group will continue in business
The directors confirm that they have met the above
requirements. The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and of the group and to enable them to ensure
that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal
control and for safeguarding the assets of the group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance