 26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Introduction
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the Principles of Good Governance and Code 
of Best Practice (the  Code') issued by the Financial Services Authority as an Appendix to its Listing Rules. This statement describes how
the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Group's compliance with the Code Provisions.
Board Meetings and Responsibilities
Corporate governance is the responsibility of all Directors. In addition to meeting regularly, at least six times a year, separate strategic
discussions take place. Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital
projects over a defined limit, annual budgets, new Group borrowing facilities and significant changes to employee benefit schemes. 
There is a distinct and defined division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive. The Chairman is primarily
responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the
business and for the implementation of the strategy agreed by the Board. However, it should be noted that following the tragic death 
of Mr P J Harrower on 30 December 2002, the Chairman assumed the responsibilities of Group Chief Executive until the appointment of
a new Group Chief Executive. It is intended to restore the division of responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman and Group
Chief Executive as soon as a new Group Chief Executive can be appointed.
Independent Directors
The Board currently comprises a Chairman, who is also acting as Group Chief Executive, four Executive Directors and three 
Non-executive Directors and their details are set out on pages 20 and 21. The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience
to the Company and are considered by the Board to be independent. Mr A C Salvesen was formerly Managing Director of a subsidiary
within the Christian Salvesen Group (as described on page 21), however, he has not been employed in an executive capacity by either
Christian Salvesen or Aggreko since 1989. Mr N H Northridge has been appointed as the senior independent Director and together
with the two other Non-executive Directors provides a strong and independent element on the Board. 
Re-election of Directors
One third of the members of the Board must retire by rotation each year and may offer themselves for re-election if eligible. The Board has
also resolved that all of its members must submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals of at least every three years. Any Director
appointed by the Board will be subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after his or her appointment and will not be
taken into account in determining the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Standing Committees
The Board has standing Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, the membership of which is detailed on pages 20 and 21.
Each committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by the Board and the minutes of the committee meetings are circulated
to and reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee is currently comprised of three Non-executive Directors. It meets at least three times a year under the chairmanship
of Mr R V McGlone who succeeded Mr P G Rogerson on 19 December 2002. Although they are not members, the Group Chief Executive,
Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and the external Auditors normally attend these meetings. Both the internal and external Auditors
have direct access to the Committee Chairman at all times. The nature and scope of the audit are discussed with the external Auditors 
in advance and any matters arising from their work and the Accounts are reviewed. The Committee also aims to ensure that the internal
audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group, reflecting the determination of the Board to
ensure that internal financial control procedures are of a high standard. Written and verbal reports from the Head of Internal Audit 
are received by the Committee on a regular basis.
The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised of three Non-executive Directors. It meets at least twice a year and is now under 
the chairmanship of Mr N H Northridge who succeeded Mr P G Rogerson on 22 January 2003. Its primary function is to determine the
Company's policy on Board remuneration and to approve the specific terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors
and senior managers including the basis on which performance related awards are calculated. The Committee also determines the terms
on which any employee share or share option schemes are to be offered and the basis of invitations to participate. The fees payable to
Non-executive Directors are established by the full Board.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and includes the Non-executive Directors and the Group Chief
Executive. Its responsibilities are to assist the full Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment 
of a new Director or Chairman.
Relations with Shareholders
The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 57 and 58 sets out the resolutions that will be proposed. The Board supports the use 
of the meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and encourages their participation. The Company is ready, where
practicable, to enter into a dialogue with institutional Shareholders, analysts and investors. Senior executives seek to meet regularly 
with institutions and major Shareholders to improve their understanding of the Company and its objectives. 
Aggreko WEB pdf  14/3/03  11:40 am  Page 26 27 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Internal Control
Monitoring Risk
The Board has applied Principle D.2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the risks that are considered significant by the Group.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's system of Internal Control as well as significant risk issues. Such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The Board's monitoring framework covers a wide range of controls, including financial, operational and compliance
controls together with risk management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and considering whether significant
risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified is promptly remedied.
As part of the continual review and strengthening of risk management activities, the Board has introduced enhanced reporting
procedures for identifying and monitoring key areas of risk.
The Board also considers financing and investment decisions concerning the Group and monitors the policy and control mechanisms 
for managing treasury risk. The Group insurance programme is reviewed by the Board which also approves self-insured exposures. 
A comprehensive system for monitoring all significant risks has been in operation throughout the year and key risks have been identified
on a risk register. The Board has considered the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that would
be taken in response to them if they did occur.
Review of Effectiveness 
In compliance with Provision D.2.1 of the Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control. 
On an annual basis the Board undertakes a formal review, which is designed to assess the application of the principal financial 
and operational controls operated by the Group. The review, which is based on self-assessment by senior operational management, 
is carried out using a risk review and control questionnaire and is intended to complement the internal and external audit procedures.
During the year the Audit Committee of the Board reviews the external and internal audit work programmes and considers reports 
from internal and external Auditors on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses. It also receives responses 
from management regarding the actions taken on issues identified in audit reports.
The Board has also undertaken a specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report. This assessment 
considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the year ended 31 December 2002. Accordingly, the Board 
is satisfied that the Group continues to have an effective system of internal control.
Corporate Responsibility 
The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, which 
protects the environment as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers and the communities in which 
it operates. These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and responsibly manage environmental, health and safety risks through
implementation of a comprehensive Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management System that standardises best operating
practices, objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, performance indicators and goals. These policies are set out in more detail 
on pages 18 and 19.
Pensions
The assets of the UK defined benefit pension fund are controlled by trustees; they are held separately from the assets of the Company
and invested by independent fund managers. The segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company. Three trustees have
been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have been appointed. This fund was closed to new
employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002; new employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Compliance with the Code
As noted under  Board Meetings and Responsibilities', on 30 December 2002, the Chairman assumed the responsibilities of Group
Chief Executive. It is intended to restore the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive as soon 
as a new Group Chief Executive can be appointed.
With the exception of this item, the Directors consider that the Group complies and has complied throughout the year ended 
31 December 2002 with all of the Provisions of the Code. 
Philip G. Rogerson
Chairman 
27 February 2003
Aggreko WEB pdf  14/3/03  11:40 am  Page 27