 Corporate Governance
42 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Introduction
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the Combined Code 
of Corporate Governance (the Code ) and has reviewed its corporate governance policies and practices in 
the light of the revised Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 that has applied to 
the Company since 1 January 2004. 
Board Meetings and Responsibilities
Corporate governance is the responsibility of all Directors. The Board meets at least six times a year. Amongst
the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects
over a defined limit, annual budgets, new Group borrowing facilities and significant changes to employee benefit
schemes. 
There is a distinct and defined division of responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman and the Group
Chief Executive. The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Group
Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the business and for the implementation of 
the strategy agreed by the Board. The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors without 
the Executives present. Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive Directors meet without 
the Chairman present on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The attendance of Directors at meetings in 2005 is set out in the table below:
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number of Meetings in 2005 7354
P G Rogerson 7 n/a n/a 4
R C Soames 7 n/a n/a 4
F A B Shepherd 7 n/a n/a n/a
A G Cockburn 7 n/a n/a n/a
G P Walker 7 n/a n/a n/a
K Pandya * 4(4) n/a n/a n/a
A C Salvesen 7354
N H Northridge 7354
R V McGlone 7343
n/a Not a member of Committee
* joined the Board on 20 June 2005 - maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
A programme has been prepared that is designed to ensure that new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored
induction on joining the Board. During the year the Board visits operational locations; Directors are briefed on 
a wide range of topics and are given the opportunity to discuss aspects of the business with employees. Directors
have access to independent professional advice at the Company's expense where they judge this to be necessary
to discharge their responsibilities as Directors. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with. 
Independent Directors
The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Group Chief Executive, four other Executive Directors and three
Non-executive Directors; their details are set out on pages 36 and 37. The Non-executive Directors bring a 
wide range of experience to the Company and are considered by the Board to be independent as defined in 
the revised Code. The Board has considered the independence of Mr A C Salvesen who is himself a significant
shareholder and holds just under 3% of the issued share capital. The Board does not consider that this holding
will impact Mr Salvesen's independence. The Board has also satisfied itself that none of the Non-executive
Directors represent any other shareholder or group of shareholders.
Mr N H Northridge has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director and together with the two other
Non-executive Directors provides a strong and independent element on the Board. The revised Code states 
that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent Non-executive
Directors. However, the Directors believe that to achieve this balance, requiring the appointment of two
additional Directors, would cause the Board to be unwieldy.  43 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Re-election of Directors
One third of the members of the Board must retire by rotation each year and may offer themselves for re-election
if eligible. The Board has also resolved that all of its members must submit themselves for re-election at regular
intervals of at least every three years. Any Director appointed by the Board will be subject to election by
shareholders at the first opportunity after his or her appointment and will not be taken into account in
determining the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Standing Committees
The Board has standing Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the memberships, roles and
activities of which are detailed in separate reports; Audit Committee on page 45, Remuneration Committee 
on page 48 and Nomination Committee on page 47. Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference
approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to, and reviewed by the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the standing Committees of the Board are available on our website at
www.aggreko.com/investors under the heading Corporate Governance .
Board Performance Evaluation
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance. This involved the completion of assessment
questionnaires by all Directors covering the performance of the Board and its Committees. Other aspects 
that were reviewed included the effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and Non-executive Directors, 
the monitoring of operational performance, and corporate governance, as well as leadership and culture. 
The Board considered a summary of the conclusions and this was followed up by meetings as appropriate 
with individual Directors. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 110 to 113 sets out the resolutions that will be proposed. 
The Board supports the use of this meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and encourages
their participation. The Company is ready, where practicable, to enter into a dialogue with shareholders, through
analyst briefings and investor presentations. Senior executives seek to meet regularly with institutional and
major shareholders to improve their understanding of the Company and its objectives. The Senior Independent
Director is available to meet shareholders if they have concerns. In addition to attending meetings with
Shareholders the Board has sought to understand the views of investors better by commissioning regular
feedback reports from the Company's Stockbrokers. 
Internal Control
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the risks that are considered significant by the Group. This process is designed to manage rather
than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss. The Board's monitoring framework covers a wide range of controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls together with risk management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from
management and considering whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and
ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified is promptly remedied. The Board continues to enhance
and strengthen the procedures for identifying and monitoring key areas of risk.
The Board also considers financing and investment decisions concerning the Group and monitors the policy 
and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk. The Group insurance programme is reviewed by the Board,
which also approves self-insured exposures.
During the year the Audit Committee of the Board reviews the external and internal audit work programmes
and considers reports from internal and external auditors on the system of internal control and any material
control weaknesses. It also receives responses from management regarding the actions taken on issues identified
in audit reports.  Corporate Governance continued
44 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Review of Effectiveness of Internal Control 
In compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Group's system of
internal control. 
On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a formal review that is designed to assess the application 
of the principal financial and operational controls operated by the Group. The review, which is based on self-
assessment by senior operational management, is carried out using a risk review and control questionnaire and 
is intended to complement the internal and external audit procedures. There is also a comprehensive procedure
for monitoring all significant risks and key risks have been identified on a risk register. The Board has considered
the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that would be taken in response
to them if they did occur.
The Board has undertaken a specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report. 
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2005.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group continues to have an effective system of internal control.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible
manner, which protects the environment as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its
customers and the communities in which it operates. These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and
manage responsibly environmental, health and safety risks through implementation of a comprehensive Global
Environmental, Health and Safety Management System that standardises best operating practices, objectives,
data collection, reporting, audits, performance indicators and goals. These policies are set out in more detail on
pages 30 to 34.
Pensions
The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are controlled by trustees; they are held separately from the
assets of the Company and invested by independent fund managers. These segregated funds cannot be invested
directly in the Company. Four trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member-
nominated trustees have been appointed. This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 
1 April 2002; new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Compliance with the Code
The Directors consider that the Group complies and has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2005
with all of the Provisions of the Code with the exception that the Code states that at least half of the Board,
excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent Non-executive Directors, and the Directors
believe that to achieve this balance would cause the Board to be unwieldy.
Philip G Rogerson
Chairman 
9 March 2006