 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 17
The Company complies with the detailed
Corporate Governance provisions
incorporated into the Listing Rules for
quoted companies. The Group complied
with all Combined Code requirements
throughout the year.
Board structure and processes
The Board consists of its Non-executive
Chairman, its Chief Executive, Finance
Director and four Non-executive Directors,
with Mr A M Jackson as the senior 
Non-executive Director. Mr P B Dermody
stepped down as Chief Executive on 
1 September 2003 and retired as a Director
on 13 October 2003. Mr C A Leaver was
appointed as his replacement as Chief
Executive on 1 September 2003. Details of
all the Directors, together with the
committees on which they sit, are set out
on page 13. All members of the Board
submit themselves for re-election every
three years. Mr N N Walmsley and 
Mr R G Stubbs retire by rotation and
submit themselves for re-election. 
Mr A M Jackson has served for more than
nine years as a Non-executive Director and
therefore submits himself for re-election.
The Board meets at least every two months
during the year with further meetings
arranged as necessary. The Non-executive
Directors meet at least once a year without
the presence of any Executive Directors.
During the year the Board met formally on
eleven occasions. Mr R G Stubbs and 
Mr N N Walmsley attended all formal
meetings. Lord Daresbury, Mrs D Hewitt,
Mr S P Morgan, Mr P B Dermody and 
Mr A M Jackson each gave their apologies
for non-attendance at one meeting. 
All committee meetings were fully
attended. There are a number of matters
which are always dealt with by the Board
such as approval of the annual budget,
authorisation of major acquisitions and
disposals, as well as significant items of
capital expenditure. The Board also
approves the issue of the final and interim
results and the Annual and Interim Reports
of the Group.
In advance of each meeting, the Board
receives detailed financial information on
the business performance of the Group in
addition to items for decision. The Board
also requests additional information as it
requires. The Directors are therefore able to
make informed decisions on corporate and
business issues under consideration.
The Company Secretary is responsible for
ensuring that Board processes and
procedures are appropriately followed and
support effective decision making. All
Directors have access to the Company
Secretary's advice and services and there is
also a formal procedure for Directors to
obtain independent professional advice in
the course of their duties, if necessary, at
the Company's expense. An induction
programme is arranged for all new
Directors. This covers the major trading
activities of the Company as well as the
roles and responsibilities of Directors
generally. Directors receive subsequent
training as required and are also
encouraged to visit the Company's trading
operations.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief
Executive are separate. The Non-executive
Chairman is responsible for effectively
operating and chairing the Board. The Chief
Executive has overall responsibility for
managing the Company, which includes
strategy and operations.
The Non-executive Chairman and 
Mr S P Morgan both have interests in
substantial share holdings in the Company
(5.2% and 13.7% respectively at 
28 September 2003) and the Non-executive
Chairman was also previously the Chief
Executive. As a result, they are not
considered to be independent.
Mr A M Jackson has been a Director of the
Company since 1993 and, in accordance
with best practice, the Board has reviewed
whether, in its opinion, he remains
independent. In addition they have also
reviewed whether he should, on the
grounds of length of service, be replaced.
The Board has concluded that Mr A M
Jackson's industry experience, his
understanding of the business and the level
of commitment he displays to the Board are
such that he provides just the sort of
challenge expected of an independent Non-
executive Director. The Board therefore
considers Mr Jackson to be an independent
Non-executive Director.
To further strengthen the independence of
the Board, the Board is seeking to appoint
another independent Non-executive
Director in the forthcoming year.
Save as previously mentioned, the Non-
executive Directors have no material or
business relationships with the Company
and each of the other Non-executive
Directors are regarded as independent.
Audit Committee
The Company has an Audit Committee
consisting of Non-executive Directors under
the chairmanship of Mr N N Walmsley. 
The members of the Audit Committee are
as disclosed on page 13. The Committee
meets at least three times a year and its
terms of reference follow those
recommended by the Combined Code and
its decisions and proceedings are reported
to the Board.
The external Auditors are invited to attend
all the Audit Committee meetings and
other Board members are invited to attend
as appropriate. Part of each meeting of the
Audit Committee is held between the Non-
executive Directors and the external
Auditors in private.
The Audit Committee reviews the annual
financial statements of the Company
together with its accounting systems and
internal controls. The individuals responsible
for the Company's internal audit function
have direct access to the Chairman of the
Audit Committee. The Committee also
reviews the appointment and terms of
reference of the external Auditors and
monitors the level of non-audit services
provided by the Auditors. A breakdown of
non-audit fees is provided in Note 2. The
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the
Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee
The Company has a Remuneration
Committee, under the chairmanship of 
Mrs D Hewitt, which meets at least once a
year. Details of the members of the
committee and its remit are disclosed in the
Report on Directors' Remuneration on 
page 19.
Statement on Corporate Governance 18 DE VERE GROUP PLC STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement on Corporate Governance
continued 
Nomination Committee
The Company has a Nomination Committee
under the chairmanship of Mr A M Jackson.
This Committee recommends to the Board
the appointment of all Executive and Non-
executive Directors. The Committee
determines the terms of reference for new
appointments and uses external advisers to
identify suitable candidates for any vacant
directorships; each candidate is interviewed
by all members of the Committee. A
shortlist is then prepared and further
interviews take place as appropriate. Any
appointments to the Board are approved by
the Board as a whole. During the year, 
Mr C A Leaver was appointed Chief
Executive and the above procedure was
followed in relation to his appointment.
Newly appointed Directors are subject to
election by shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting following appointment.
Under the Company's Articles of
Association all Directors must submit
themselves for re-election at least every
three years.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are
given high priority. The Chief Executive's
Overview, Chairman's Statement, Operating
and Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 12
include a detailed review of the business
and future developments of the Group.
There is regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders, including presentations after
the Company's announcement of the 
half-year and year-end results, and
following any strategic activity. Following
such meetings, minutes are prepared and
circulated to the whole Board so that they
are aware of shareholders' views.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting
as an important means of communication
with private and institutional investors and
encourages their participation. The
Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen
of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination committees are available at
Annual General Meetings to answer
questions. Details of resolutions to be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting
on 20 February 2004 can be found in the
Notice of Meeting.
To further improve communications with
shareholders, the Group has a website
(www.deveregroupplc.co.uk) dedicated to
the communication of corporate
information such as: current and historical
financial reports, presentations and press
releases together with a link to the current
share price. We also offer our shareholders
the option of receiving electronic versions
of shareholder communications, including
the annual and interim reports. Information
regarding this service can be downloaded
directly from the corporate website.
Internal contol
The Board is responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing
its effectiveness. The system of internal
control is designed to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the
Company's assets by managing the risks of
not meeting business objectives and is
intended to provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The principal elements of the Group's
system of internal control and risk
management, that comply with the
Turnbull guidance and which were in place
throughout the year under review and up
to the date of approval of the Accounts,
are as follows:
 A risk management report is reviewed at
each meeting of the Board of Directors.
This report summarises all foreseen
strategic, operational, financial, technical
and environmental risks that could
prevent the achievement of business
objectives.
  All major risks identified in the risk
management reports are assessed and
allocated to specific individuals as
appropriate. Action plans to mitigate the
identified risks are in place.
 A detailed budget is prepared for the
following financial year along with a
strategic plan for the subsequent three
years. Actual results are reported monthly
and compared to both budget and prior
year results. Operational performance of
the hotels is reviewed against external
industry benchmarks.
 A formal appraisal and approval process
is operated for all items of capital
expenditure. Projects are required to
demonstrate achievement of appropriate
operational and financial criteria.
 Key systems and controls are documented
and, on a monthly basis, self-certification
reports are signed off by heads of finance
functions across the Group.
  Internal audits are conducted in
accordance with a rolling programme.
Each hotel or business unit is audited at
least once each year, with further audits
being conducted in accordance with
perceived risk.
  The Group has a clearly defined
organisational structure which allows
appropriate segregation of duty.
Employees have prescribed authority levels.
The effectiveness of internal control 
systems are considered and monitored
regularly (and at least once a year) by the
Board of Directors and the Audit
Committee. The Directors confirm that they
have reviewed the effectiveness of the
Internal Control system in accordance with
the above procedures.
Going concern
The Directors consider, after making
enquiries, that the Company has adequate
resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and,
accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt
the going concern basis in the preparation
of the Accounts.