 www.deevalleygroup.com
Stock Code: DVW
15
17805	 10/06/10	 Proof	5
Our Governance
Corporate Governance
Compliance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. Save as explained below, the Group has, 
throughout the period under review, complied with the 
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 (the Code ).
Directors and the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the 
Group and for determining long-term objectives and strategy. 
The management of the Group's businesses is delegated to the 
executive Directors, subject to a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved to the Board, which includes:
 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure 
budget.
 Changes to the Group's capital structure.
 Approval of financial statements.
 Dividend policy.
 Approval of the Business Plan for submission to Ofwat.
 Appointment of key professional advisers.
 Approval of major capital projects and material contracts.
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Managing Director, 
the Finance Director and two non-executive Directors 
considered by the Board to be independent. Brief biographies 
of the Directors are given on page 12.
The Board normally meets at least six times a year, with 
further meetings as required in order to deal in a timely 
manner with items specifically reserved to the Board. During 
the year under review the Board met on ten occasions, with full 
attendance from all eligible Directors, except that Mr A C Bird 
did not attend the meeting on 28 May 2009 and Mr D T Weir did 
not attend the meeting on 10 June 2009.
Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to attend monthly 
Dee Valley Water management meetings in order to keep up to 
date their knowledge of the Group's operations.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, and there is an agreed procedure for 
Directors, if necessary, to take independent professional advice 
at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their duties. 
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at 
intervals of no more than three years.
During the year, an internal review of the performance of the 
Board and of individual Directors was carried out. As a result, a 
number of objectives have been set for the Board over the next 
12 months.
The areas covered include:
  planning for the next Periodic Review
  succession planning for the Board
  minimising the risk of fluctuations in power costs
Progress in achieving these objectives will form part of the next 
review of the performance of the Board. The Company is not in 
compliance with Code Provision A.6.1 in that the performance 
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees was not reviewed 
during the year.
New Directors receive a full and tailored induction to the Group 
but, given the size of the Group, the induction is not formalised. 
To the extent that the induction is not formalised, the Company 
does not comply with Code Provision A.5.1.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches high importance to communicating with 
all shareholders. Its policy is to be available for meetings 
with institutional shareholders in order to explain the Group's 
results, policies and future strategy. The meetings are 
normally attended by the Managing Director and Finance 
Director, who report the views of major shareholders to the 
Board. To the extent that none of the Company's non-executive 
Directors normally has direct face-to-face contact with major 
shareholders, the Company is not in full compliance with Code 
Provisions A.5.1, D.1.1 and D.1.2.
The Company encourages shareholder participation in Annual 
General Meetings. At such meetings, all Directors make 
themselves available to answer questions, either formally or 
informally, in respect of their responsibilities as a  
Board member or as a member of a Board Committee. All 
shareholders receive the full Annual and Interim Reports.
Remuneration Committee Report
The members of the Committee are Mr A C Bird (Chairman) 
and Mr D T Weir, both being independent non-executive 
Directors and Mr G R Scott who was independent on 
appointment. Other Directors may attend committee meetings 
as required.
During the year under review, the Committee met formally 
on one occasion, with full attendance, and determined 
the remuneration package for the executive Directors and 
Chairman. No Director is involved in determining his own 
remuneration. Given the nature of the Group's principal 
business, the Committee does not feel it appropriate for 
performance-related elements to form a significant proportion 
of the total remuneration package of executive Directors, a 
non-compliance with Provision B.1.1 of the Code.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from 
the Company Secretary on request and are also available on 
the Company's web site: www.deevalleygroup.com. Dee Valley Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010
16
17805	 10/06/10	 Proof	5
Corporate Governance continued
The Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 19 
contains an explanation of remuneration policy together with 
details of the remuneration paid to each Board member during 
the year.
Nomination Committee
The Company is not in compliance with Code Provision A.4.1 in 
that it does not have a continuing Nomination Committee. On 
the occurrence of a vacancy for a Director, the Board will form 
a Nomination Committee with a membership appropriate to 
the vacancy under consideration. When there are no vacancies, 
the continuing duties of the Nomination Committee are carried 
out by the Board; these duties mainly involve consideration of 
the composition of the Board and succession planning.
Audit Committee Report
The members of the Committee are Mr D T Weir (Chairman) 
and Mr A C Bird, both being independent non-executive 
Directors and Mr G R Scott, who was independent on 
appointment. Other Directors and the external auditors may 
attend committee meetings as required. The duties of the 
Committee include:
 Monitoring the integrity of the Group's financial statements.
 Reviewing the accounting polices and disclosures in 
financial reports.
 Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
controls.
 Making recommendations to the Board regarding the 
appointment of the Group's external auditors and approving 
their terms of engagement.
 Assessing the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from 
the Company Secretary on request and are also available on 
the Company's web site: www.deevalleygroup.com. During the 
year under review, the Committee met on two occasions, with 
full attendance at both meetings.
Note 4 discloses the fees paid to the auditor for other services. 
In order to preserve auditor independence and objectivity,  
non-audit work may be awarded to the external auditor where 
the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of 
the Group is necessary, or where significant benefit can be 
gained from work previously carried out, for example tax advice 
or due diligence on transactions. All other work will not be 
placed with the external auditor.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system 
of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management, and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the Group. Managers are responsible for the 
identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable 
to their areas of the business together with the design and 
operation of suitable internal controls. These risks may be 
associated with a variety of internal and external sources 
including environmental and regulatory requirements.
Risks are identified using standardised procedures 
and documentation covering expected consequences, 
likelihood, impact, current controls and any potential control 
improvements. The executive Directors have reviewed the 
results of the risk assessments and have communicated 
them to and discussed them with the Board as part of  
the review of effectiveness of the Group's system of  
internal control.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the need for an 
internal audit function. The system of internal financial 
control is reviewed by the external auditors by means of 
reports arising from the statutory audit and additional 
assignment reports that are examined by the Audit 
Committee and reported on to the Board.
The Board intends to monitor internal controls in general 
by means of self assessments, but will from time to 
time consider the need for independent reviews by risk 
specialists.
Going Concern
The Group's business activities together with the factors that 
are likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Operating and Financial Review 
on pages 05 to 11. The financial position of the Group, its 
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also 
described in the Operating and Financial Review. In addition, 
notes 23 and 25 to the financial statements include the 
Group's objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of 
its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together 
with a customer monopoly in its area of supply. Consequently 
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully despite the current economic 
outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future and consider that the going 
concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the 
financial statements.