 www.deevalleygroup.com
Stock Code: DVW
17
20485.04 10/06/2011 Proof 5
Our Performance Our Governance
Corporate Governance
Compliance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. Save as explained below, the Group has, throughout 
the period under review, complied with the provisions set out 
in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
issued in June 2008 (the Code ).
Directors and the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the 
Group and for determining long-term objectives and strategy. 
The management of the Group's business is delegated to the 
executive Directors, subject to a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved to the Board, which includes:
  Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure 
budgets
  Changes to the Group's capital structure
  Approval of financial statements
  Dividend policy
  Approval of the Business Plan for submission to Ofwat
  Appointment of key professional advisers
  Approval of major capital projects and material contracts
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Managing Director, the 
Finance Director and two non-executive Directors considered by 
the Board to be independent. Brief biographies of the Directors 
are given on page 14.
The Board normally meets at least six times a year, with further 
meetings as required in order to deal in a timely manner with 
items specifically reserved to the Board. During the year under 
review the Board met on 11 occasions, with full attendance from 
all eligible Directors.
Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to attend monthly 
management meetings in order to keep their knowledge of the 
Group's operations up to date.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, and there is an agreed procedure for 
Directors, if necessary, to take independent professional advice 
at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their duties. All 
Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at intervals 
of no more than three years.
During the year, an internal review of the performance of the 
Board and of individual Directors was carried out. As a result, a 
number of objectives have been set for the Board over the next 
12 months.
The areas covered include:
  Planning for the next Periodic Review
  Risk review
  Continuing to minimise the risk of fluctuations in  
power costs
  Succession planning for the Board
Progress in achieving these objectives will form part of the next 
review. The Company is not in compliance with Code Provision 
A.6.1 in that the performance of the Remuneration and Audit 
Committees was not reviewed during the year.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board attaches high importance to communicating with 
all shareholders. Its policy is to be available for meetings with 
institutional shareholders in order to explain the Group's results, 
policies and future strategy. The meetings are normally attended 
by the Managing Director and Finance Director, who report 
the views of major shareholders to the Board. To the extent 
that none of the Company's non-executive Directors normally 
has direct face-to-face contact with major shareholders, the 
Company is not in full compliance with Code Provisions A.5.1, 
D.1.1 and D.1.2.
The Company encourages shareholder participation in Annual 
General Meetings. At such meetings, all Directors make 
themselves available to answer questions, either formally or 
informally, in respect of their responsibilities as a Board member 
or as a member of a Board Committee. All shareholders receive 
the full Annual and Interim Reports.
Remuneration Committee Report
The members of the Committee are Mr J H Schofield (Chairman) 
and Mr D T Weir, both being independent non-executive 
Directors, and Mr G R Scott, who was independent on 
appointment. Other Directors may attend committee meetings 
as required.
During the year under review, the Committee met formally on one 
occasion, with full attendance, and determined the remuneration 
package for the executive Directors and Chairman. No Director 
is involved in determining his own remuneration. Given the 
nature of the Group's business, the Committee does not feel it 
appropriate for performance-related elements to form a significant 
proportion of the total remuneration package of executive 
Directors, a non-compliance with Provision B.1.1 of the Code.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from 
the Company Secretary on request and are also available on the 
Company's web site: www.deevalleygroup.com.
The Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 19 and 20 contains 
an explanation of remuneration policy together with details of the 
remuneration paid to each Board member during the year.
Nomination Committee
The Company is not in compliance with Code Provision A.4.1 in 
that it does not have a continuing Nomination Committee. On 
the occurrence of a vacancy for a Director, the Board will form a 
Nomination Committee with a membership appropriate to the 
vacancy under consideration. When there are no vacancies, the 
continuing duties of the Nomination Committee are carried out 
by the Board; these duties mainly involve consideration of the 
composition of the Board and succession planning. Dee Valley Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts for  
the year ended 31 March 2011
18
20485.04 10/06/2011 Proof 5
Corporate Governance continued
Audit Committee Report
The members of the Committee are Mr D T Weir (Chairman) 
and Mr J H Schofield, both being independent non-executive 
Directors and Mr G R Scott, who was independent on 
appointment. Other Directors and the external auditor may 
attend committee meetings as required. The duties of the 
Committee include:
  Monitoring the integrity of the Group's financial statements
  Reviewing the accounting polices and disclosures in 
financial reports
  Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls
  Making recommendations to the Board regarding the 
appointment of the Group's external auditor and approving 
its terms of engagement
  Assessing the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from 
the Company Secretary on request and are also available on the 
Company's web site: www.deevalleygroup.com. During the year 
under review, the Committee met on two occasions, with full 
attendance at both meetings.
Note 4 discloses the fees paid to the auditor for other services. In 
order to preserve auditor independence and objectivity, non-
audit work may be awarded to the external auditor where the 
work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the 
Group is necessary, or where significant benefit can be gained 
from work previously carried out, for example tax advice or due 
diligence on transactions. All other work will not be placed with 
the external auditor.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system 
of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management, and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and 
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group. Managers are responsible for the identification 
and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of 
the business together with the design and operation of suitable 
internal controls. These risks may be associated with a variety 
of internal and external sources including environmental and 
regulatory requirements.
Risks are identified using standardised procedures and 
documentation covering expected consequences, likelihood, 
impact, current controls and any potential control improvements. 
The executive Directors have reviewed the results of the risk 
assessments and have communicated them to and discussed 
them with the Board as part of the review of effectiveness of the 
Group's system of internal control.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the need for an 
internal audit function. The system of internal financial control 
is reviewed by the external auditor by means of reports arising 
from the statutory audit that are examined by the Audit 
Committee and reported on to the Board.
The Board intends to monitor internal controls in general by 
means of self assessments, but will from time to time consider 
the need for independent reviews by risk specialists.
Going Concern
The Group's business activities together with the factors that are 
likely to affect its future development, performance and position 
are set out in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 
06 to 13. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described in 
the Operating and Financial Review. In addition, notes 23 and 
25 to the financial statements include the Group's objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and 
its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with 
a customer monopoly in its area of supply. Consequently the 
Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully despite the current economic 
outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future and consider that the going concern 
basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial 
statements.