 14 Corporate Governance Deltron Annual Report 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to the maintenance of
high standards of corporate governance as set
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
appended to the listing rules of the Financial
Services Authority (the Code). The Board
considers that except where mentioned below
the Company was in compliance with the
Code throughout the year ended 30
September 2003.
The Board 
The Board critically examines the Group's
strategy and budget annually and meets
monthly to review the financial performance of
the Group, current trading and key business
initiatives. It also meets on an ad hoc basis as
required. It has a schedule of matters reserved
to it for decision, including items such as the
approval of the annual and interim financial
statements, material capital commitments and
business acquisitions and disposals. The Board
receives detailed papers on the business to be
conducted at each meeting in advance. 
At the end of the financial year the Board
comprised: the Chairman, Paul Gourmand
who is non executive and who is responsible
for the effective conduct of Board and
shareholder meetings, and for ensuring that all
directors are properly briefed in order to take a
full part in Board discussions; the Chief
Executive, Christopher Sawyer who is
responsible for developing and implementing
business strategy and processes and for the
management of the organization; three other
executive directors and three additional non
executive directors. The Chairman, 
Sir Ivor Cohen and David Weir are considered
independent of management having no other
commercial, family or other relationships with
the Company, its suppliers or customers.
None of the non executives have been
appointed as senior independent non-
executive director in compliance with the Code
as the Board do not believe it is appropriate
given the number of independent non
executives. The Directors' names along with
the non executive directors' biographies are
contained within the Directors' Report and
indicate the breadth of their business and
financial experience, necessary to support the
management of a pan-European Group the
size of Deltron
In accordance with the Company's Articles of
Association, one third of the non executive
directors are required to retire by rotation each
year, this year Pierre Romano retires and offers
himself for re-election. Sir Ivor Cohen as
announced in the October 2003 placing and
open offer prospectus will retire from the Board
as a non executive director and as Chairman of
the Audit Committee and as a member of the
remuneration and nominations committees on
31 December 2003. David Weir joined the
Board on 23 September 2003 as a non
executive director and will take over Sir Ivor's
duties from 1 January 2004. David Weir, being
appointed during the year, will stand for 
re-election at the next General Meeting. 
There is no requirement under the Articles of
Association for the executive directors to retire
once re-elected at the first AGM after their
appointment. This is not in accordance with the
Code as the Board do not believe it is
appropriate at this time. All executive directors
have rolling service contracts with the company
and these do not exceed one year's notice. 
The non- executive directors do not have fixed
term appointments. Their service contracts
require only twelve months' notice of termination. Deltron Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance 15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Continued
The Board has delegated certain matters to
committees of the Board, the principal such
committees being referred to below. 
Remuneration Committee 
The composition and terms of reference of the
Remuneration Committee, under the
chairmanship of Paul Gourmand are set out on
page 17 together with a statement of the
Company's remuneration policy. Full details of
directors' remuneration appear on page 19.
The details of each executive director's
remuneration package are determined by the
Remuneration Committee in line with the policy
adopted by the full Board, and each executive
director abstains from any discussions or
voting at Board meetings on Remuneration
Committee recommendations where such
recommendations have a direct bearing on the
director's own remuneration package. The
Chief Executive attends meetings of the
Remuneration Committee by invitation but is
not present when his own performance or
remuneration details are being considered.
Nominations Committee
The nomination committee comprises Paul
Gourmand, Christopher Sawyer, David Weir and
Sir Ivor Cohen. It is chaired by Paul Gourmand
and is responsible for the selection and
nomination of candidates for Board appointment.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Sir
Ivor Cohen meets at least four times a year and
monitors and reviews the system of financial
and operational controls of the Group. It also
considers the Group's compliance with the
Combined Code. The Audit Committee only
has two non-executive Directors, rather than
the minimum of three as required by Code
provision D3.1. The Committee can request the
external auditor, executive directors and any
other officers of the Group to attend its
meetings. In addition, the Group's external
auditors have direct access to the Committee
to raise any matters that may concern them.
The Committee receives papers from the
external auditor and management, at each
meeting. The Audit Committee keeps under
review the nature, scope and results of the
external audit. The independence and
objectivity of the external auditors is also
considered on a regular basis, with particular
regard to the level of non audit fees. The Audit
Committee reviews with management a
detailed analysis of the Company's financial
information prior to completion and
announcement of the half year and year end
results and receives a report from the external
auditors on the audit process. The external
auditors may also meet separately with the
Chairman, the Chief Executive and Group
Finance Director. The report and accounts and
interim results go through a detailed verification
and due diligence process before being issued.
Internal Control 
The Board recognise that the management of
risk is key to ensuring that a robust system of
internal control is maintained by the business. 
In particular, the Board has placed considerable
emphasis on putting in place an ongoing
process, which is in accordance with the
Turnbull guidance, for identifying, evaluating and
managing those risks facing the business which
are considered significant. Such a system can
only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or
loss. When reviewing the Internal controls the
Board consider the potential significance of
each risk factor, the likelihood of incurring a 
loss and the cost of the appropriate controls. 16 Corporate Governance Deltron Annual Report 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Continued
The Directors have and continue to review the
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
control covering financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management. 
As part of the Group's internal controls the
following have been in place for the year under
review and up to the date of approval of the
annual report and accounts.
Annual budgets for each business unit
Twice yearly strategy review where the 
Board and the business unit management 
meet to determine policy and to discuss the 
risk management implications of that policy
Regular review of actual performance 
against the budgets
Presentations to the Board by each business 
unit during the year covering financial 
performance, key suppliers and customers, 
future risks and opportunities concluding with 
a question and answer session
Regular cash flow forecasting
Ongoing review of the major risks 
and their impact
Controls and procedures over the security 
of data held on computer systems
Treasury and Taxation policies are set centrally.
Internal audit is not currently undertaken as a
specific central function although the Board do
review this decision annually. However each
business unit has its own dedicated finance
staff and a member of the central finance team
regularly visits each business unit and is
authorised to test the internal controls of the
business and report any concerns to the
Group Finance Director.
Communication with Shareholders 
The Company fully appreciates the importance
of communication with its shareholders. At the
half year, an interim report is published and
sent to all shareholders. At the year end a full
set of Annual Accounts is produced. These
reports are intended to provide shareholders
and other interested parties with a balanced
and clear understanding of Deltron's
operational performance and prospects and its
financial results and position. The annual report
and accounts are also published on the
Group's website www.deltron-electronics.com.
There is regular dialogue with individual
Institutional shareholders and general
presentations are made following the release
of the preliminary results for the year. All
shareholders have the opportunity to put
questions at the Company's Annual General
Meeting, at which a report is made on the
highlights of the key business developments
during the financial year under review. 