 Long term debt obligations comprise borrowings (before deducting interest rate and foreign currency swaps) with an original maturity 
of greater than one year. Purchase obligations include various long term purchase contracts entered into for the supply of certain raw
materials, principally grapes, cans and glass bottles.The contracts are used to guarantee supply of raw materials over the long term and 
to enable more accurate predictions of future costs. It is expected that all contractual commitments will be funded from future operating
cash flows and no new borrowings will be required to meet these obligations. Provisions for liabilities and charges and creditors greater
than one year do not include  32 million in respect of vacant properties (included in operating leases),  113 million for onerous contracts
(included in purchase obligations), post employment provisions and deferred taxation.
In addition, the group has resumed service-based contributions to the Diageo UK pension fund.The contribution is expected to be
approximately  50 million per annum. At 30 June 2004, the group had  312 million of 9.42% cumulative guaranteed preferred securities
which were included in non-equity minority interests on the consolidated balance sheet.The securities were redeemed at the option 
of the company during the year ended 30 June 2005.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
In connection with the disposal of certain businesses, the group has given guarantees of third party debt which were necessary to
complete the disposals on the most favourable terms.The directors are not aware of any instances of default by the borrowers at present,
but the ability of the borrowers to continue to be in compliance with the guaranteed debt instruments, and in particular remaining current
on payments of interest and repayments of principal, is significantly dependent on the current and future operations of those borrowers
and their affiliates. Diageo guaranteed up to $850 million ( 475 million) of external borrowings of Burger King until December 2007.These
loans had an original term of five years from December 2002, although Diageo and Burger King agreed to structure their arrangements 
to encourage refinancing by Burger King on a non-guaranteed basis prior to the end of five years. On13 July 2005, Burger King refinanced
these external borrowings on a stand-alone basis releasing Diageo of its obligations under the guarantee. See  Material contracts -
Agreement for the sale of Burger King Corporation' for further information. In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury in October 2001,
Diageo has guaranteed debt of International Multifoods Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of The JM Smucker Company as from 18
June 2004, to the amount of $200 million ( 112 million), repayable in November 2009.
In addition, certain of the acquired Seagram businesses had pre-existing guarantees at the date of the acquisition in relation to the
solvency of a third party partnership.This partnership has outstanding loans of $100 million ( 56 million).Vivendi has indemnified the
group against any losses relating to these arrangements.
The above guarantees are unrelated to the ongoing operations of the group's business.
The group also has unrecognised gains and losses of  145 million and  61 million, respectively, in respect of financial instruments at 
30 June 2005. For further disclosures with regard to financial instruments, see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo group, has any off-balance sheet financing arrangements
that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on the group's financial condition, changes in financial condition,
results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.
Risk management
The group's funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are managed by the group's treasury
department.The treasury department uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these
underlying treasury risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and
subsequently monitored by the finance committee (this committee is described in the corporate governance report).These include
benchmark exposure and/or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.The benchmarks, hedge cover and overall appropriateness 
of Diageo's risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, significant business, strategic or accounting
changes.The framework provides for limited defined levels of flexibility in execution to allow for the optimal application of the board-
approved strategies.Transactions giving rise to exposures away from the defined benchmark levels arising on the application of this
flexibility are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.They are carried at fair value and gains or losses are 
taken to the profit and loss account as they arise. At 30 June 2005 gains and losses on these transactions were not material.
The finance committee receives bi-monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures away 
from the defined benchmarks.The internal control environment is reviewed regularly.
53 Operating and financial review Diageo Annual Report 2005 Currency risk The group publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements which will affect the group's transaction costs,
and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets 
by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps.The group's
policy is to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net assets before net borrowings at approximately the following percentages - 
90% for US dollars, 90% for euros and 50% for other significant currencies where a liquid foreign exchange market exists.This policy leaves
the remaining part of the group's net assets before net borrowings subject to currency movements. Exchange differences arising on the
retranslation of foreign currency net borrowings and foreign exchange swaps are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains
and losses to match exchange differences on foreign equity investments, in accordance with SSAP 20. Under IFRS, Diageo will continue 
to hedge its net investment in foreign currency denominated assets. Net investment hedges will take the form of foreign currency
borrowings or derivatives. From 1 July 2005, Diageo has introduced additional processes to determine, monitor and document the
effectiveness of these hedges in the context of the underlying exposure under IAS 39.
For currencies in which there is an active market, the group seeks to hedge between 80% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign
exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency exchange contracts.The gain or loss on 
the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction. Diageo expects hedges entered into to be effective, and therefore
does not expect the impact of ineffectiveness on the profit and loss account to be material.
Interest rate risk The group has an exposure to interest rate risk and is most vulnerable to changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest
rates.To manage interest rate risk, the group manages its proportion of fixed to variable rate borrowings within limits approved by the board,
primarily through issuing long term fixed rate bonds, medium term notes and fixed and floating rate commercial paper, and by utilising
interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps and swaptions.The profile of fixed rate to floating rate net borrowings is maintained
according to a duration measure that is equivalent to an approximate 50% fixed and 50% floating amortising profile.The number of years
within the amortising profile depends on a template approved by the board.The floating element of US dollar borrowing is partly protected
using interest rate collars although, following a policy review in 2002 interest rate collars are no longer being transacted and the existing
collars are reducing as the individual instruments reach maturity. Remaining interest rate collars as at 30 June 2005 will take up to approximately
one year to expire. In addition, where appropriate, the group may use forward rate agreements to manage short term interest rate exposures.
Swaps, swaptions, forward rate agreements and collars are accounted for as hedges. Such management serves to increase the accuracy of 
the business planning process. Following the implementation of IFRS from 1 July 2005 the majority of Diageo's existing interest rate hedges
are designated as hedges under IAS 39. Diageo expects hedges entered into to be effective, and therefore does not expect the impact 
of ineffectiveness on the profit and loss account to be material.
Capital structure Diageo manages its capital structure to achieve capital efficiency, maximise flexibility and give the appropriate level 
of access to debt markets at attractive cost levels.This is achieved by targeting a range of ratios which are currently broadly consistent 
with an A band credit rating.
Liquidity risk The group's policy with regard to the expected maturity profile of group financing companies' borrowings is to limit the
proportion of such borrowings maturing within 12 months to 50% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits and the level 
of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits. In addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop
facility terms from relationship banks to support commercial paper obligations.
Credit risk A large number of major international financial institutions are counterparties to the financial instruments transacted by the
group. Group policy is to enter into such transactions only with counterparties with a long term credit rating of A or better.The group
monitors its credit exposure to its counterparties, together with their credit ratings.
Commodity price risk The group uses commodity futures and options to hedge against price risk in certain commodities. All commodity
futures and options contracts hedge a projected future purchase of raw material. Commodity futures or options are then either closed out 
at the time the raw material is purchased or they are exchanged with the company manufacturing the raw material to determine the
contract price. Commodity contracts are held in the balance sheet at fair value but any gains and losses are deferred until the contracts 
are closed out or exchanged. Open contracts at 30 June 2005 and gains and losses realised in the year or deferred at the balance sheet date
were not significant.
Operating and financial review continued
54 Operating and financial review Diageo Annual Report 2005