 accounts corporate governance review of the year 
15 The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate governance
Other than as indicated below, the Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the period with the revised Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, as revised in June 2006 (the Combined Code). Compliance with the provisions 
of the Combined Code relating to Directors' remuneration is covered by the Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 20.
During the year, the Board did not comply with the requirement to undertake an annual evaluation of its performance and that of its committees 
and individual Directors.
The following relates to the Company's application during the period to 28 March 2009 of the principles and detailed provisions of the Combined Code.
Board of Directors 
During the year, the Board was broadly balanced with the non-executive Chairman supported by a non-executive Vice Chairman, one other 
non-executive Director and two Executive Directors. The Director recognised as the senior independent Director for the purposes of the Combined Code 
is J A Kitchen. A J Dick resigned as a Director on 5 August 2008. D H Norman was appointed on 7 August 2008.
The Board of Directors met ten times during the year. S J Rutherford and M G D Wakeman attended all meetings. M J Temple and J A Kitchen 
attended nine meetings, D H Norman attended six meetings and A J Dick attended four meetings. The Board retains full and effective control over 
the Group and is responsible for overall Group strategy and management, acquisition and divestment policies, internal control, control of major 
capital expenditure projects and significant financing matters. It also reviews annual budgets and the progress towards achievement of those 
budgets. A schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board's decision has been agreed.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at regular intervals and at least 
every three years.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Board committees 
The Board has delegated specific responsibility to two committees, each with defined terms of reference. Minutes of their meetings are circulated 
to and reviewed by the Board. 
The Audit Committee consists of all the non-executive Directors and is chaired by J A Kitchen (who the Board considers has recent and relevant 
financial experience). It met twice during the year, with the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, and representatives of the external auditor 
in attendance. It reviewed the interim and final financial statements and considered the Annual Report and Accounts before submission to the Board 
for approval, the appointment of the external auditor, the scope of the audit and matters arising from the audit and internal control procedures. 
During the year J A Kitchen and S J Rutherford attended both meetings of the committee and M J T emple attended one meeting of the committee. 
There is provision for the committee to meet with the auditor without the attendance of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee consists of all the non-executive Directors and is chaired by J A Kitchen. It determines the terms and conditions 
of employment for Executive Directors and agrees the parameters of remuneration for the senior management. There were three meetings during 
the year attended by all members. The Remuneration Committee also functions as the Nomination Committee. 
Owing to the size of the Board, it is not considered necessary for the Board to have a separate Nomination Committee.
Internal control 
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board monitors the effectiveness of the systems of internal control principally through the regular review of financial information and the work 
of the Audit Committee.
Operational and compliance controls and risk management are part of the Group's basis of operation.
The Board has established key principles of Corporate Governance for the Group. These include:
   an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The process is reviewed regularly 
by the Board and accords with the requirements of the Combined Code; and
   a comprehensive financial reporting structure, including a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses which culminates 
in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board. 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The major elements of the system and the process of review are as follows:
   an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to executive management;
   a comprehensive framework for planning, budgeting and reporting the performance of the Group's operating units. Monthly results are 
reported against budget and forecasts (which are regularly revised);
   defined policies and minimum financial controls and procedures at each operating unit; 
   prescribed procedures for capital expenditure applications;
   confirmation by operating unit senior managers of compliance with the Group's procedures (regular internal control reviews are also carried out 
by Group finance staff); and
   the identification and appraisal of risks during the annual process of preparing business plans and detailed budgets and their regular review 
during the year.  The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2009 16
Corporate governance/continued
Internal audit
Head office staff perform control review visits to locations on a cyclical basis. The results of these reviews are reported to the Audit Committee.
Relations with the auditor
During the year the auditor provided tax and other non-audit advice to the Company and its subsidiaries. The Board has considered the effect on 
the independence of the auditor and concluded that their provision of non-audit services was the most cost-effective way of obtaining appropriate 
advice without a serious risk of compromising the independence of the auditor. The Audit Committee monitors the scope of the auditor's work. 
Relations with shareholders
The Company carries out a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders while having regard to UK Listing Authority guidance on the release 
of price sensitive information. Full use is made of the Annual General Meeting and the Company's website to communicate with private investors. 
The results of proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands. 
Statement of Directors' responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to 
prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance 
of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial 
statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation. 
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company. 
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
   select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
   make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
   for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; 
   for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements; and 
   prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company 
will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and 
Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of corporate and financial information included on the Company's website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern 
The Directors are confident, after making appropriate enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. Further information on this matter is set out 
in the Basis of Preparation section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
By order of the Board
Alan Myers 
Secretary
23 June 2009 