 65
Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance summary
Business review
Post employment benefi t liabilities are also not included in the table above. The group makes service-based cash contributions to the 
Diageo pension scheme in the United Kingdom. In the year ending 30 June 2010, the contribution is expected to be  46 million. In 
addition, the group has agreed a defi cit funding plan with the trustee of the UK Diageo Pension Scheme, which provides for the group 
to make a further payment of  50 million in the year to 30 June 2010 into an escrow account. The amount already held in escrow at 
30 June 2009 is  144 million. It is anticipated that the escrow will be released to the trustee and invested into the Scheme during the 
year ending 30 June 2010. Funding arrangements are being reviewed and may be adjusted following agreement between Diageo and 
the trustee, based on the results of the valuation as at 31 March 2009. Additionally, funding arrangements will be reviewed and adjusted 
in the light of future triennial actuarial valuations. Contributions to other plans in the year ending 30 June 2010 are expected to be 
approximately  1 25 million.
Off -balance sheet arrangements
In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury in October 2001, Diageo has guaranteed debt of International Multifoods Corporation, 
a wholly owned subsidiary of The JM Smucker Company as from 18 June 2004, to the amount of $200 million ( 1 21 million), until 
November 2009. The directors are not aware of any instances of default by the borrower at present, but the ability of the borrower 
to continue to be in compliance with the guaranteed debt instrument, and in particular remaining current on payments of interest and 
repayments of principal, is signifi cantly dependent on the current and future operations of the borrower and its affi  liates. This guarantee 
is unrelated to the ongoing operations of the group's business.
  Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo group has any off -balance sheet fi nancing 
arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material future eff ect on the group's fi nancial condition, changes 
in fi nancial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.
Risk management
This section on risk management forms part of the audited fi nancial statements.
  The group's funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are managed by the group's treasury 
department. The treasury department uses a combination of derivative and conventional fi nancial instruments to manage these 
underlying risks.
  Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and 
subsequently monitored by the fi nance committee. This committee is described in the corporate governance report. These policies 
and guidelines include benchmark exposure and/or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk. The benchmarks, hedge cover and 
overall appropriateness of Diageo's risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, signifi cant business, 
strategic or accounting changes. The framework provides for limited defi ned levels of fl exibility in execution to allow for the optimal 
application of the board-approved strategies. Transactions giving rise to exposures away from the defi ned benchmark levels arising 
on the application of this fl exibility are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis. These derivative fi nancial 
instruments are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise. At 30 June 2009 gains and losses 
on these transactions were not material.
  The fi nance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures away from 
the defi ned benchmarks.
Currency risk 
The group publishes its consolidated fi nancial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies. As a result, 
it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements, which will aff ect the group's transaction costs and 
the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations. Where hedge accounting is applied, hedges are 
documented and tested for hedge eff ectiveness on an ongoing basis. Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be eff ective 
and therefore does not expect the impact of ineff ectiveness on the income statement to be material.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 
The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fl uctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign operations by 
designating net borrowings held in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards. Where a liquid foreign 
exchange market exists, the group's policy approved by the board is to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net investment in 
foreign operations within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars, 80% to 100% for euros and 50% to 100% for 
other signifi cant currencies.
  Exchange diff erences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings (including foreign currency swaps and forwards), 
to the extent that they are in an eff ective hedge relationship, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense to 
match exchange diff erences on net investments in foreign operations. Exchange diff erences on foreign currency borrowings not in a 
hedge relationship and any ineff ectiveness are taken to the income statement. 66
Diageo Annual Report 2009 
Business review
Transaction exposure hedging 
For currencies in which there is an active market, the group's policy approved by the board is to seek to hedge between 60% and 
100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency 
exchange contracts with coverage levels increasing nearer to the forecast transaction date. The eff ective portion of the gain or loss on 
the hedge is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense and recycled into the income statement at the same time 
as the underlying hedged transaction aff ects the income statement. Any ineff ectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Hedge of foreign currency debt 
The group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the forward foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency 
denominated bonds. The eff ective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the statement of recognised income and 
expense and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction aff ects the income statement. 
Any ineff ectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Interest rate risk 
The group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally on changes in US dollar, euro and sterling interest rates. To manage 
interest rate risk, the group manages its proportion of fi xed to fl oating rate borrowings within limits approved by the board, primarily 
through issuing fi xed and fl oating rate term debt and commercial paper, and by utilising interest rate derivatives. These practices 
serve to reduce the volatility of the group's reported fi nancial performance. To facilitate operational effi  ciency and eff ective hedge 
accounting, the group's policy is to maintain fi xed rate borrowings within a band of 40% to 60% of projected net borrowings, and the 
overall net borrowings portfolio is managed according to a duration measure. The board approved template specifi es diff erent 
duration guidelines and fi xed/fl oating amortisation periods (time taken for the fi xed element of debt to reduce to zero) depending 
on diff erent interest rate environments. The majority of Diageo's existing interest rate hedges are designated as hedges. Designated 
hedges are expected to be eff ective.
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter diffi  culty in meeting obligations associated with fi nancial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or other fi nancial assets. The group's policy with regard to the expected maturity profi le of borrowings of group 
fi nancing companies is to limit the amount of such borrowings maturing within 1 2 months to 50% of gross borrowings less money 
market demand deposits, and the level of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits. In 
addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop facility terms from relationship banks to support commercial paper obligations.
Credit risk 
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in fi nancial loss to the group. Credit risk 
arises from cash balances (including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents), fi xed income and money market investments and 
derivative fi nancial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, fi nancial guarantees and 
committed transactions. Credit risk is managed on a group basis separately for fi nancial and business related credit exposures.
Financial credit risk 
Diageo minimises its fi nancial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the board. 
Counterparties are limited to major banks and fi nancial institutions, and the board defi ned policy restricts the exposure to any one 
counterparty bank by setting credit limits taking into account the credit quality of the counterparty bank as defi ned by Moody's, 
Standard and Poor's or Fitch. The board also defi nes the types of fi nancial instruments which may be transacted. The group policy 
ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no signifi cant concentrations of credit risk. Financial 
instruments are only transacted with major international fi nancial institutions with a long term credit rating within the A band or better. 
The credit risk arising through the use of fi nancial instruments for interest rate and foreign exchange management is estimated with 
reference to the fair value of contracts with a positive value, rather than the notional amount of the instruments themselves.
  When derivative transactions are undertaken with bank counterparties, Diageo may, where appropriate, enter into certain 
agreements with such bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefi t of the other if the net 
valuations of the derivatives are above a pre-determined threshold. 
  During the year ended 30 June 2009, Diageo reviewed the credit limits applied and continued to monitor the counterparties' 
credit quality in response to market credit conditions.