 Report of the Board of Directors
As reported in this document, 2002 was a year of consolidation and preparation for new opportunities
from a broadening product and technology portfolio. Collaboration with partners and customers, as well
as an acquisition, ensured that we made progress in the development of products for a more diverse
customer base.
During the year the Board oversaw the functioning of executive management of the Company at the
quarterly Board Meetings of February 4, April 17, July 18, October 17, 2002 and assured itself of the
proper conduct of executive management during that year. At such Board Meetings the Board received
and analyzed reports from the chief executive as to the achievements of the Company as compared to
budget and progress made in achieving the commercial goals for the year.
The Remuneration Committee, comprising Jan Tufvesson, Michael Glover and Tim Anderson met in
December 2002 to discuss the achievements of the Management during that year and to establish the
individual objectives of the Management for 2003. The Audit Committee, comprising of Jan Tufvesson
and Michael Glover, met on a quarterly basis. These meetings concentrated on a review of the financial
information to be reported on for the relevant prior financial period and on the internationally accepted
standards for fair and responsible financial reporting and corporate governance.
The Company's audited financial statements, for the year ended December 31, 2001, and the reports
from the Directors and Auditors thereon were presented to, and approved by, the shareholders at the
fourth annual general meeting of the Company, held on May 16, 2002, at which KPMG, the Company's
independent auditor was reappointed until the following annual general meeting of the Company .
The Board extends its thanks and appreciation to the Executive Management and all employees for
their hard work and considerable achievements in 2002.
Corporate Governance
Implementing high corporate governance standards
On November 13, 2002 Dialog Semiconductor Plc publicly declared its commitment to comply with
German and internationally accepted standards for fair and responsible corporate governance.
Accordingly, Dialog Semiconductor (as a foreign company listed on the German stock exchange) 
has established and published its own Corporate Governance Standards corresponding in substance
to the provision of the Declaration on Corporate Governance . Dialog has adopted and will follow
these principles in order to further enhance the confidence of shareholders, customers, employees and
the general public in the Company .
Full details of the corporate governance principles are published on Dialog Semiconductor's internet
site (www.dialog-semiconductor.com), but in summary they cover the following key areas.
Board of Directors
78 Management       Letter to our Shareholders       Corporate Profile       Our Shares       Management Report       Financial Statements
Variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is measured based on the profitability on the
Company as well as success in reaching specific strategic goals.
Compensation (in  ) Directors Holdings
Base Long-term
Name Position salary Bonus incentives Shares Options
Roland Pudelko Executive Director,
CEO and President 267,323 - - 320,405 417,450
Tim Anderson 1) Non-executive Director 7,955 - - 20,816 -
Michael Glover Non-executive Chairman 
of the Audit Committee 25,192 - - 195,000 -
John McMonigall Non-executive Director 23,866 ----
Jan Tufvesson 2) Non-executive Chairman 25,192 - - 175,062 -
Michael Risman Non-executive Director 7,955 - - 1,172 -
Tord Martin Wingren Non-executive Director 23,866 ----
381,349 - - 712,455 417,450
1) Tim Anderson is also a partner in the law firm Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, which frequently acts as our legal adviser. Fees to Reynolds Porter Chamberlain for
legal services rendered during the 2002 fiscal year amounted to   267,884.
2) During 2002, Jan Tufvesson received a consultancy fee of   43,401. In anticipation of new corporate governance principles of Nasdaq, to document Jan Tufvesson's
independence the consultancy contract was terminated as of October 31, 2002.
Shareholders rights and the Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Each share carries one vote, and there are no multiple voting rights or preferential voting rights (golden
shares). All financial and independent audit reports are presented to the AGM. The AGM is where the
directors will obtain authorization to approve and pass resolutions related to Company business, such as
auditor's remuneration, and issue of new shares. The Company will also facilitate the personal exercising
of shareholders' voting rights. The company shall publish key information relating to the AGM on its
web site on the day of the annual meeting.
Board of Directors' responsibilities, composition and compensation
Dialog has six non-executive directors and one executive director on the Board, to supervise the general
management and develop the Company's strategy . The non-executive directors do not play an active
role in day-to-day operations providing an independence and objectivity in the making of key decisions.
During 2002, directors received the remuneration listed below and their shareholding's in Dialog
Semiconductor are as follows.
79 Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee
Dialog has established an Audit Committee of the Board of Directors consisting of independent directors:
Messrs. Glover (Chairman of the Audit Committee) and Tufvesson. To maintain independence, mem-
bers of the Committee are not to receive payment from the Company for consulting, advisory, or other
services other than for board service and are not to be affiliated with the Company . The Remuneration
Committee determines the salaries and incentive compensation of Dialog's officers and the officers of
the Company's subsidiaries and provides recommendations for the salaries and incentive compensation
of other employees and consultants. Our Remuneration Committee consists of Messrs. Tufvesson, (chair-
man of the Remuneration Committee), Glover and Anderson. None of the members of this Committee
should serve as an employee of the Company .
Transparency, including director's dealing, insider dealing and loans
Dialog promptly discloses price sensitive information to the stock exchanges and then publishes the
information electronically . Significant shareholder interests are reported according to the UK Compa-
nies Act 1985. Transactions in securities of the Company's own shares carried out by members of the
Board of Directors and of their family members will be reported and published without delay pursuant
to section 15a of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz). With regard to insider
dealing Dialog has adopted a Code of Dealing, in which we comply with stringent guidelines to ensure
against suspicion of abusing the possession of price sensitive information, by prohibiting dealing in any
of the company's financial instruments during defined periods. In addition, the Company will not pro-
vide or guarantee any loans to directors or senior executives.
Auditor's independence
KPMG provided tax and audit related services of   99,739 during 2002. Tax services to be rendered in
2003 amount to   54,640. Our Auditor, KPMG, confirmed their independence at each quarterly audit
committee meeting and declared the following:
We hereby confirm, that as of February 25, 2003, we are independent accountants with respect to the
Company within in the meaning of the Securities Acts administered by the Securities and Exchange
Commission of the United States and the requirements of the Independence Standards Board, German
law, the German Coporate Governance Code and professional standards in Germany and the United
States. In particular
1. We verified that no professional relationships to the Company exist that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence. This relates especially to board membership and employee relation-
ships with the Company .
2. We verified that no financial relationships exist that may reasonably be thought to bear on our inde-
pendence. This relates especially to direct investments such as stocks, bonds and similar invest-
ments. We are also independent in respect to the requirements of   319 paragraph 2 no. 8 HGB. For
each of the last five years our annual revenues generated from services to the Company and other
entities for which the Company holds more than 20 % ownership amounted to less than 30 % - in fact
less than 1% - of our total revenues. This is also expected to be the case for the current fiscal year.
80 Management       Letter to our Shareholders       Corporate Profile       Our Shares       Management Report       Financial Statements
3. We will also ensure that anything which may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence
with regard to the self review threat will be avoided. In particular, apart from the audit we have not
taken part in the maintenance of any books or records or the preparation of financial statements and
will not do so in future.
4. We will comply with the requirements regarding internal rotation (  319 paragraph 3 no. 6 HGB).
5. We are not aware of any other relationships or matters which may reasonably be thought to bear on
our independence such as close family or personal relationships with the board members or man-
agement of the Company .
Our internal organization complies with the requirements of the Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der
Wirtschaftspr ferkammer und des Instituts der Wirtschaftspr fer in Deutschland: Zur Qualit tssiche-
rung in der Wirtschaftspr ferpraxis (VO 1/1995). Our partners are prohibited to have any financial
investment in a KPMG audit client. All other professional staff is prohibited to have any financial invest-
ment in an audit client he or she delivers services to. The affected persons have to declare that they
comply with these regulations on a regular basis. 
Declaration of conformity with regard to the German corporate governance code
Dialog Semiconductor Plc has established and published its own corporate governance principles cor-
responding in substance to the provisions of the Declaration on Corporate Governance  as published
on November 13, 2002 thereby adopting in substance the recommendations of the Government Com-
mission on the German Corporate Governance Code .
This declaration is available on the Internet at: www.dialog-semiconductor.com/Investor Relations/
Corporate Governance.
London, February 2003
Jan Tufvesson,
Chairman
81