 Shareholder 
Information 
Corporate 
Profile 
Management 
Report 
Report of Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm 
Consolidated Financial  
Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
64 | Annual Report 2006 
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Principles
High corporate governance standards 
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is committed to comply with Ger-
man standards for fair and responsible corporate governance. 
Accordingly, Dialog Semiconductor (as a foreign company 
listed on the German stock exchange) has established and 
published its own Corporate Governance Principles corre-
sponding in substance to the provision of the German Dec-
laration on Corporate Governance . Also, Dialog has adopted 
a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  
Full details of the Corporate Governance Principles and the 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are published on Dialog 
Semiconductor's internet site (www.dialog-
semiconductor.com). In summary, the Corporate Governance 
Principles cover the following key areas: 
Shareholders rights and the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) 
Each share carries one vote and there are no multiple voting 
rights or preferential voting rights (golden shares). All finan-
cial and independent audit reports are presented to the AGM. 
The AGM is where the directors will obtain authorization to 
approve and pass resolutions related to company business, 
such as auditor's remuneration and issue of new shares. The 
Company publishes key information relating to the AGM on 
its web site on the day of the annual meeting. 
Board of Directors' compensation 
Directors' compensation, shareholdings and options are dis-
closed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.  
Variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is 
measured based on the revenue and profitability of the Com-
pany as well as success in reaching specific strategic goals. 
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Govern-
ance and Nomination Committee 
Dialog has established an Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors. Committee members are appointed by the Board 
from amongst the non-executive directors of the Company.  
Members are independent and one of them has to be a finan-
cial expert. Committee members are Messrs. Hughes (Chair-
man of the Audit Committee), Glover, Weber and Tan. The 
CEO, CFO and a representative of the external auditors nor-
mally attend meetings. The committee Chairman reports 
formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting 
on all matters within its duties and responsibilities. After 
each meeting, the committee meets with the board to discuss 
audit issues without management in attendance.  
The Compensation Committee determines the salaries and 
incentive compensation of Dialog's officers and the officers 
of the Company's subsidiaries and provides recommendations 
for the salaries and incentive compensation of other employ-
ees and consultants. Our Compensation Committee consists 
of Messrs. McMonigall (Chairman of the Compensation 
Committee), Glover and Reyes. None of the members of this 
Committee should serve as an employee of the Company.  
Our Governance and Nomination Committee consists of 
Messrs. Shaw (Chairman of the Nomination Committee), 
Reyes and Glover and sits with the purpose of seeking to 
ensure that the Board has directors of the right skills and 
experience to help guide the Management. 
Transparency, including Director's dealing, insider dealing 
and loans 
Dialog promptly discloses price sensitive information to the 
stock exchange and then publishes the information electroni-
cally. Significant shareholder interests should be reported to 
the Company according to the UK Companies Act 2006. 
Transactions in securities of the Company's own shares car-
ried out by members of the Board of Directors and their 
family members will be reported and published without delay 
pursuant to section 15a of the German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelsgesetz). With regard to insider dealing 
Dialog has adopted a Code of Dealing.  This sets out guide-
lines to prevent abuse of price sensitive information by pro-
hibiting dealing in any of the company's financial instru-
ments during defined periods. In addition, the Company will 
not provide or guarantee any loans to Directors or senior 
executives. 
Business conduct and ethics 
The Company shall comply with all governmental laws, rules 
and regulations that are applicable to the Company's activi-
ties and expects that all Directors, officers and employees 
acting on behalf of the Company will obey the law. Directors, 
officers and employees should not be involved in any activ-
ity which creates or gives the appearance of a conflict of 
interest between their personal interests and the Company's 
interests. The Company is committed to promoting the values  Shareholder 
Information 
Corporate 
Profile 
Management 
Report 
Independent Auditor's 
Report 
Consolidated Financial  
Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
Company  
Financial Statements 
Corporate 
Governance 
 
Annual Report 2006 | 65 
of honesty, integrity and fairness in the conduct of its busi-
ness and sustaining a work environment that fosters mutual 
respect, openness and individual integrity. Directors, officers 
and employees are expected to deal honestly and fairly with 
the Company's customers, suppliers, competitors and other 
third parties. 
Auditor's independence 
The aggregate fees billed for each of the last two fiscal years 
for professional services rendered for the audit of annual 
financial statements or services by the principal accountants 
(KPMG then E&Y), were as follows: 
 
The amount in 2006 relates to E&Y; the amount in 2005 
relates to KPMG. In 2006 no tax services were rendered by 
E&Y.  
On October 4, 2006 the Company announced the appoint-
ment of Ernest & Young as its auditors and the resignation of 
KPMG in that role with immediate effect. The change of 
auditors followed a tender process initiated by the Company.  
Board Meetings 
During the year the Board oversaw the functioning of execu-
tive management of the Company at the quarterly Board 
Meetings of February 14, April 20, July 13 and October 18 
2006 and assured itself of the proper conduct of executive 
management during that year. At such Board Meetings the 
Board received and analyzed reports from the Chief Execu-
tive as to the achievements of the Company as compared to 
budget and progress made in achieving the commercial goals 
for the year. 
In addition, on 5 and 6 December 2006 a two day strategy 
meeting was held to plan for the future and to discuss the 
achievements of the Management during that year. 
During 2006, Jan Tufvesson, Michael Risman, Roland Pu-
delko and Tim Anderson resigned as directors and I would 
like to thank each of them for their many years of valuable 
contribution to the Company.  The board was supplemented 
by the important appointments of Christopher Burke, Russ 
Shaw, Peter Tan and Peter Weber. 
The Compensation Committee met in February, April and 
October 2006 to discuss and recommend to the Board em-
ployee remuneration, appointments and share option grants.  
Michael Risman resigned from the Committee in July.  John 
McMonigall succeeded him as Chairman of the Committee 
which also includes Greg Reyes and Michael Glover. The 
Audit Committee, now comprising Aidan Hughes as Chair-
man and Michael Glover, Peter Weber and Peter Tan, met on 
a quarterly basis. These meetings concentrated on a review of 
the financial information to be reported for the relevant prior 
financial period and on the internationally accepted stan-
dards for fair and responsible financial reporting and corpo-
rate governance. The Governance and Nomination Commit-
tee, now comprising Russ Shaw as Chairman, Greg Reyes and 
Michael Glover, met twice during the year to consider the 
issue of new Board appointments. 
The Company's audited financial statements for the year 
ended December 31, 2005, and the reports from the Directors 
and Auditors thereon were presented to, and approved by, 
the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Com-
pany, held on June 19, 2006, at which KPMG, the Company's 
independent auditor, was reappointed until the following 
Annual General Meeting of the Company.   
The Board extends its thanks and appreciation to the Execu-
tive Management and all employees for their hard work in 
2006. 
 
Declaration of conformity with regard to the German Cor-
porate Governance Code 
Dialog Semiconductor Plc has established and published its 
own corporate governance principles corresponding in sub-
stance to the provisions of the German Declaration on Cor-
porate Governance  as published on November 13, 2002 
thereby adopting in substance the recommendations of the 
Government Commission on the German Corporate Govern-
ance Code . 
This declaration is available on the Internet at: www.dialog-
semiconductor.com/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. 
London, 10 April 2007 
 
Greg Reyes, Chairman 
(in thousands of  ) 2006 2005 
Auditors' remuneration   
   audit (170) (192) 
   tax fees - (60) 
 (170) (252) 