 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 29
Corporate Governance
Section 3 | Management and governance
Governance standards
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is committed to implementing high levels of governance. Accordingly, Dialog Semiconductor (as a foreign
company listed on the German stock exchange) has established and published its own Corporate Governance principles corresponding
in substance to the provision of the German Declaration on Corporate Governance .
Dialog's Corporate Governance principles are published on its Website (www.dialog-semiconductor.com). The Website also contains
a full version of the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This details Dialog's expectations regarding the ethical standards
that each Director, officer and employee should follow while acting on the Company's behalf.
Corporate Governance information relating to the past financial year is set out below.
Shareholders and the Annual General Meeting (AGM )
The AGM, at which the annual financial statements and audit reports are presented, is the main forum for Shareholders to exercise
their voting rights. Directors appointed by the Board during any given year are subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM.
In addition, one-third of the Directors must resign each year and may put themselves forward for re-election. Changes to the
constitution of the Company are decided by Shareholders' resolution. Similarly, the AGM is the forum at which Shareholders can
authorise the Directors to issue new shares.
Dialog does not have any shares in issue which have multiple voting rights, preferential voting rights or maximum voting rights.
Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for determining Dialog's business strategy and ensuring that an executive is appointed to implement it.
It is also responsible for overseeing the financial aspects of the business.
The Board, which met five times during the year, currently consists of seven non-executive Directors and one executive Director.
The compensation provided to each Director is detailed in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 32 to 34. The executive
Director's remuneration is performance related and is connected to a set of goals and Dialog's profitability.
Audit Committee, and Remuneration and Nomination Committee
Dialog's Audit Committee comprises the following Directors: Aidan Hughes (Chairman), John McMonigall and Peter Tan. The
Committee is responsible for monitoring financial statements and reviewing the performance of the external auditors. It also assesses the
efficiency of the audit process and (among other things) considers compliance with accounting standards. The Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary and representatives of the external auditors usually attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is chaired by Russ Shaw who is assisted by Chris Burke and Peter Weber.
The responsibility of the Committee, among other things, is to determine subject to Board approval, the salaries and incentives
of Dialog's senior executives and decide on the size and composition of the Board. Corporate Governance is monitored at Board
level - a reflection of the importance it is given by the Board.
During the year, the Audit, and Remuneration and Nomination Committees met frequently to analyse issues under their jurisdiction,
usually on the day before each Board meeting. 30 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate Governance
Section 3 | Management and governance
Transparency
Under UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, significant Shareholders are required to notify Dialog of a shareholding of 3% or more.
Dialog must then notify BaFin and the Stock Exchange. Under S.15a of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz)
transactions in the Company's shares carried out by members of the Board of Directors and their family members are reported and
published without delay.
The Company operates a Code of Dealing in its shares which is designed to prevent insider trading and the abuse of price-
sensitive information.
The Board appreciates the value of keeping Shareholders informed of Dialog's performance throughout the year. As a result,
it publishes quarterly financial reports, together with key information on the AGM, on its Website.
Takeovers directive
At 31 December 2009, the Company's issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. Details
of the share capital can be found in note 19 consolidated financial statements.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one
vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or by proxy
in relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in
relation to each resolution are announced at the annual general meeting and published on the Company's website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than:
 certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws);
 employees of the Company are not allowed to trade in shares or exercise options in certain close periods (such close periods
normally start two weeks before the end of each quarter and end 48 hours after the release of the financial results).
Changes in the share capital of the Company in 2009 were as follows:
 On 25 September 2009, the shareholders of the Company approved an offering of 12 million new ordinary shares of 10 pence each
in the capital of the Company;
 On 20 October 2009, the Company completed an offering of 3,500,000 previously unissued ordinary shares at 10 pence each
to its employee share options trust.
Details of both changes in share capital can be found in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Besides that, the Company
did not purchase own shares and the Company holds no shares in treasury.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and
for voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid. The agreements
between the Company and its Directors for compensation for loss of office are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 32.
The Company's articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Shareholders. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 31
Section 3 | Management and governance
Internal control
In accordance with the EU Transparency Directive (DTR 7.2.5), Dialog's Board of Directors and Audit Committee acknowledge that they
are responsible for the Company's processes of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such processes are designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks it faces. This process is reviewed in
accordance with the EU Transparency Directive. The process was in place during 2009 and up to the date of the approval of the 2009
annual report and financial statements.
The Company's Board and Audit Committee can confirm that necessary actions have been taken to remedy any significant failings
or weaknesses identified from these process reviews and from two additional independent IT audits performed during 2009.
Business conduct and ethics
Dialog seeks to comply with all laws and regulations that have an impact on its business. In addition, the Company expects its
employees and Directors to act with honesty, integrity and fairness in the conduct of its business. Dialog's Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics is published on the Company's Website.
Dialog is committed to taking account of interests outside the Company, including those of employees, business partners, the
environment and the local communities on which it has an impact. The Board values, and has developed, a culture of corporate social
responsibility that takes the above factors into consideration.
Audit and auditors
The consolidated financial statements have been audited by Dialog's auditors, Ernst and Young (E&Y ). E&Y were appointed in
October 2006 following a tender process.
The remuneration given to the auditors over the past two financial years is detailed in notes 3 and 31 to the consolidated financial
statements on pages 55 and 84.
The Company's audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008, and the reports from the Directors and
auditors thereon, were presented to, and approved by, the Shareholders at the AGM of the Company held on 22 April 2009.
E&Y, the Company's independent auditors, were reappointed until the following AGM.
Declaration of conformity with regard to the German Corporate Governance Code
Dialog Semiconductor Plc has established and published its own Corporate Governance principles corresponding in substance
to the provisions of the German Corporate Governance Code  as amended on 14 June 2007 thereby adopting in substance
the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code. This declaration is available
on the internet at: www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Gregorio Reyes
Chairman
11 February 2010