 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 23
Corporate social responsibility
Section 2 | Business review
Dialog considers that the social challenges of corporate
responsibility should be based on fair wages, healthy and
safe working conditions, respect for human rights, honest
relationships and commitment to community development.
With regard to these challenges, Dialog is committed to the
adoption of the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct (EICC)
standard as the model for ensuring that working conditions
for internal and external suppliers are safe and that all workers
are treated with respect and dignity.
This commitment is reflected in Dialog's own Code of Conduct ,
which addresses all the key areas defined in the EICC standard
along with recognised standards such as International Labour
Organization Standards (ILO), Universal Declaration of Human
Rights (UDHR), Social Accountability International (SAI) and the
Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI).
In addition, the Company complies with the worldwide ISO
14001 Environmental Standard - and expects its suppliers to do
the same - in order to ensure that all manufacturing processes
are environmentally compliant.
Human rights and code of conduct
Dialog's philosophy is that all its suppliers must demonstrate a
commitment to upholding workers' human rights and to treating
them with dignity and respect. Standards such as the UDHR,
SAI and the ETI have been used as a basis for these requirements.
All labour must be given voluntarily and workers must be free
to leave their employment on reasonable notice. Child labour
must not be used at any stage of manufacturing. Working hours
must not exceed the maximum set by local laws and wages must
comply with all applicable laws.
Dialog and its suppliers must ensure that workers are not
threatened or subjected to inhumane or harsh treatment,
harassment or any form of unlawful discrimination. Open
communication and direct engagement between workers and
management is encouraged, even in those countries where
there is no meaningful legal protection.
In order to promote its philosophy several new initiatives have
been introduced to all of Dialog's manufacturing partners during
2009, including a detailed code of conduct for them to review
and implement.
Detailed self-audits have been performed by all our suppliers in
order to verify the implementation of this code of conduct and
on-site audits and inspections are performed regularly by Dialog
to verify its continuing maintenance.
Health and safety
Dialog considers a safe and healthy working environment to be
essential in the maintenance of employees' morale and in the
In 2009, the pledge amount was reduced to US$3.0 million and
converted to cash. Our exposure to credit risks arising from other
financial assets, such as cash and cash equivalents, available-for-
sale and held-to-maturity financial investments, would arise from
the default of a counterparty and is limited to the carrying
amount of the particular instruments.
Liquidity risk
We monitor our liquidity on a quarterly basis with the objective
of avoiding interest on short-term bank liabilities or overdrafts.
Our policy is to structure the maturity of our current financial
assets in the Group to meet 100% of the respective maturities
and liabilities.
An international equity offering was launched in Q3 2009, with
the subscription being approximately three times oversubscribed.
Twelve million new ordinary shares were priced at  3.65,
representing a premium of 4% to the price on the offer
announcement date. The shares were placed with a number of
Tier 1 institutional investors to raise gross proceeds of  43.8 million
(US$ 64.3 million). Net proceeds (after deduction of offering
expenses of US$4.7 million) were US$59.7 million. The proceeds
from the offering will be used to increase our working capital
resources to fund future growth, to acquire complementary
technology and intellectual property and expand our design
and technical support teams, particularly in the US and Asia.
Risks and their management
By providing an exciting work experience in an attractive environment, with
investment in our people and resources, Dialog continues to attract leading
talent in the industry. 24 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate social responsibility
Section 2 | Business review
production of high-quality and innovative products. As a result,
we require our major suppliers also to be committed to ensuring
the creation of healthy and safe working conditions. We expect
them to provide evidence of suitable controls, safe working
procedures, preventative maintenance and general protective
measures in their working environments.
When hazards cannot be adequately controlled by these means
alone, suitable protective clothing or equipment is supplied, and
evacuation procedures and facilities are in place at Dialog's and
suppliers' premises.
Connecting with employees
Dialog aims to attract and retain the best people by ensuring that
all employees receive comprehensive on-the-job formal training,
coaching and mentoring. Clear and regular communication is
achieved through regular Company-wide information sessions,
led by the CEO, and every effort is made to keep employees fully
aware of Company matters that affect them.
We encourage employee feedback at all levels for new ideas
to improve business efficiency and performance. We support
initiatives and fundraising in the local communities in which
we work.
Ethics
Dialog believes that continued success in the semiconductor market
can be achieved only by adopting high standards of ethical
behaviour when dealing with customers, suppliers and workers.
It is particularly important to protect Intellectual Property (IP ),
which is the key to ensuring the development of innovative
solutions to complex problems. Any transfer of technology or
know-how is always done in a manner that protects IP rights;
effective protection also means that products can be discussed
openly with our business partners.
The disclosure of information which is related to business
activities, structure, our financial situation and performance
is always carried out in accordance with applicable regulations
and prevailing industry practices. We expect the highest standards
of integrity from all Dialog stakeholders; any malpractice is
strictly prohibited and may result in immediate termination
and legal action.
Neither we nor our suppliers offer or accept inducements or
any other means of obtaining undue or improper advantage.
We have a whistle-blower  policy in place to protect employees'
confidentiality and encourage our suppliers to do the same.
Management systems
Dialog's management system complies with the EICC code.
It is certified to the ISO 9001 international standard as a formal
implementation of the code and is committed to implementing
and facilitating continuous improvements, and to mitigating
operations-related risks. To enable us to comply with all applicable
laws, regulations and customer requirements, as required by
the code, we also ensure that all our major supply-chain partners
are accredited at least to the same standard. To ensure that we
constantly improve our management systems, we regularly review
and audit internal and supply-chain management systems.
The environment and environmental protection
The environmental agenda at Dialog considers climate change
environmental protection aspects (air, land and water quality),
effective resource management (eco-efficiency) and sustainability.
Our commitment to the environment is evidenced by our ISO14001
certification. Since we firmly believe that sustainable development
can be secured only if we safeguard our valuable resources,
we deal only with suppliers that have similar environmental
goals and are also accredited to the ISO14001 standard.
Within our supply chain, we continually emphasise that
environmental issues should be an instinctive part of any
decision-making process, and that suppliers should use
environmentally friendly technology to:
 reduce and eliminate emissions of ozone-depleting, and other
volatile organic chemicals (VOC);
 design and manufacture only environmentally friendly products;
 manage, reduce and dispose of hazardous substances safely;
 monitor and control waste water and solid waste emissions;
 reduce and eliminate all types of waste, including water
and energy;
 reduce waste by maximising product yields; and
 ensure all environmental permits are obtained, maintained
and kept current.
As a fabless semiconductor company, it is important to Dialog
that all of its manufacturing partners also follow their
requirement to respect the environment.
To this end every supplier is required to complete a self-audit
questionnaire to identify and document compliance to Dialog's
environmental requirements.
Also, evidence of compliance to requirements is checked during
regular supplier on-site audits.
Some recent examples of the environmental improvements
implemented by our suppliers are:
 reduction of VOC Emissions through the use of local scrubbers;
 reduction in water usage by 2% due to water recycling
and developing of rainwater drainage systems to increase
the collection of rainwater for reuse;
 reduction of scrap (failed devices) by maximising product yields;
and
 use of recycling facilities for extractions and reuse of precious
metal and plastic. This has enabled a raw material recycle rate
increase of around 7% compared to 2008.