 Section 3 | Management and governance
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  33
Governance standards
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is committed to 
implementing high levels of governance. 
Accordingly, Dialog (as a foreign company listed 
on the German stock exchange) has established 
and published its own Corporate Governance 
principles corresponding in substance to the 
provision of the German Declaration on 
Corporate Governance . 
Dialog's Corporate Governance principles are 
published on its Website (www.dialog-
semiconductor.com). The Website also contains 
a full version of the Company's Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics. This details 
Dialog's expectations regarding the ethical 
standards that each Director, officer and 
employee should follow while acting on the 
Company's behalf.
Corporate Governance information relating  
to the past financial year is set out below.
Shareholders and the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM )
The AGM, at which the annual financial 
statements and audit reports are presented,  
is the main forum for Shareholders to exercise 
their voting rights. Directors appointed by the 
Board during any given year are subject to 
Shareholder approval at the AGM. 
In addition, one-third of the Directors must 
resign each year and may put themselves 
forward for re-election. Changes to the 
constitution of the Company are decided by 
Shareholders' resolution. Similarly, the AGM is 
the forum at which Shareholders can authorise 
the Directors to issue new shares. 
Dialog does not have any shares in issue which 
have multiple voting rights, preferential voting 
rights or maximum voting rights.
Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for determining 
Dialog's business strategy and ensuring that  
an executive is appointed to implement it. 
It is also responsible for overseeing the financial 
aspects of the business. 
The Board, which met five times during the 
year, currently consists of seven non-executive 
Directors and one executive Director. The 
compensation provided to each Director is 
detailed in the Directors' remuneration report 
on pages 35 to 37. The executive Director's 
remuneration is largely performance related 
and is connected to a set of goals and  
Dialog's profitability.
Audit Committee, and Remuneration  
and Nomination Committee
Dialog's Audit Committee comprises the 
following Directors: Aidan Hughes (Chairman), 
John McMonigall and Peter Tan. The Committee 
is responsible for monitoring financial statements 
and reviewing the performance of the external 
auditors. It also assesses the efficiency of the 
audit process and (among other things) considers 
compliance with accounting standards. The 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
the Company Secretary and representatives  
of the external auditors usually attend Audit 
Committee meetings. 
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee 
is chaired by Russ Shaw who is assisted by Chris 
Burke and Peter Weber. The responsibility of 
the Committee, among other things, is to 
determine, subject to Board approval, the salaries 
and incentives of Dialog's senior executives  
and decide on the size and composition of  
the Board. Corporate Governance is monitored 
at Board level - a reflection of the importance  
it is given by the Board. 
During the year, the Audit, and Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees met five times  
to analyse issues under their jurisdiction,  
usually on the day of, or the day before,  
each Board meeting.
Transparency
Under UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 
significant Shareholders are required to notify 
Dialog of a shareholding of 3% or more or 5% 
or more in the case of shares held by investment 
managers (on behalf of clients), scheme 
operators and ICVCs. Dialog then makes this 
information public and notifies BaFin and the 
Stock Exchange. Transactions in the Company's 
shares carried out by members of the  
Board of Directors and their family members 
are reported and published under s15a  
of the German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelsgesetz) and DTR3. 
The Company operates a Code of Dealing  
in its shares which is designed to prevent 
insider trading and the abuse of price  
sensitive information. 
The Board appreciates the value of keeping 
Shareholders informed of Dialog's performance 
throughout the year. As a result, it publishes 
quarterly financial reports, together with key 
information on the AGM, on its Website.
Takeovers directive
At 31 December 2010, the Company's issued 
share capital comprised a single class of shares 
referred to as ordinary shares. Details of the 
share capital can be found in note 18 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of 
the Company every holder of shares present in 
person and entitled to vote shall have one vote 
and on a poll, every member present in person 
or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote for every ordinary share held. The notice 
of the general meeting specifies deadlines for 
exercising voting rights either by proxy notice 
or by presence in person or by proxy in relation 
to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. 
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers 
for, against or withheld in relation to each 
resolution are announced at the annual general 
meeting and published on the Company's 
Website after the meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in the Company other than:
   certain restrictions may from time to time  
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws);
   employees of the Company are not allowed 
to trade in shares or exercise options in 
certain close periods (such close periods 
normally start two weeks before the end  
of each quarter and end 48 hours after  
the release of the financial results).
On 4 February 2010, an offering of 3,500,000 
previously unissued ordinary shares at 10 pence 
each to its Employee Benefit Trust was made.
Details of changes in share capital can be  
found in note 18 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Besides that, the Company did  
not purchase its own shares and the Company 
holds no shares in treasury. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between Shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities  
and/or voting rights. 
Dialog has an Employee Benefit Trust which 
holds Dialog shares for the benefit of employees, 
Corporate Governance Section 3 | Management and governance
34  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
including for the purpose of satisfying awards 
made under the various employee share plans. 
The trustee may vote the shares as it sees fit, 
and if there is an offer for the shares the 
trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the 
offer but will have regard to the interests of  
the employees, may consult them to obtain 
their views on the offer and may otherwise 
take the action with respect to the offer it 
thinks fair.
There are no agreements between the Company 
and its Directors or employees providing for 
compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that occur because  
of a takeover bid. The agreements between the 
Company and its Directors for compensation 
for loss of office are given in the Directors' 
remuneration report on pages 35 to 37.
The Company's Articles of Association may only 
be amended by a special resolution at a general 
meeting of Shareholders.
Internal control
Dialog's Board of Directors and Audit 
Committee acknowledge that they are 
responsible for the Company's processes  
of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. Such processes are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives, and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks it faces. This process is reviewed 
in accordance with the EU Transparency Directive. 
The process was in place during 2010 and  
up to the date of the approval of the 2010 
annual report and financial statements.
The Company's Board and Audit Committee 
can confirm that necessary actions have been 
taken to remedy any significant failings or 
weaknesses identified from these process reviews.
Business conduct and ethics
Dialog seeks to comply with all laws and 
regulations that have an impact on its business. 
In addition, the Company expects its employees 
and Directors to act with honesty, integrity and 
fairness in the conduct of its business. Dialog's 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 
published on the Company's Website.
Dialog is committed to taking account of interests 
outside the Company, including those of 
employees, business partners, the environment 
and the local communities on which it has an 
impact. The Board values, and has developed,  
a culture of corporate social responsibility that 
takes the above factors into consideration.
Audit and auditors
The consolidated financial statements have 
been audited by Dialog's auditors, Ernst and 
Young (E&Y ). E&Y were appointed in 
October 2006 following a tender process.
The remuneration given to the auditors over 
the past two financial years is detailed in  
note 3 to the consolidated financial statements 
on page 59 and note 30 to the Company 
financial statements on page 89.
The Company's audited financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2009, and  
the reports from the Directors and auditors 
thereon, were presented to, and approved by, 
the Shareholders at the AGM of the Company 
held on 5 May 2010. E&Y, the Company's 
independent auditors, were reappointed until 
the following AGM.
Given the acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor 
B.V. (SiTel ) on 10 February 2011, the Board 
has requested that Kevin Harkin, the Senior 
Statutory Auditor, extend his period of service 
from five years to seven years (to end with 
audit of the 31 December 2012 annual report). 
The Board believes that this will give the  
Group greater stability and more comfort over 
audit quality over the next two years as SiTel  
is integrated into the Group. After due 
consideration, Kevin Harkin and Ernst & Young 
LLP have accepted this request and have 
advised that they will implement additional 
review procedures in order to mitigate any 
potential risk of familiarity impairing their 
independence.
Declaration of conformity with regard to 
the German Corporate Governance Code
Dialog Semiconductor Plc has established  
and published its own Corporate Governance 
principles corresponding in substance  
to the provisions of the German Corporate 
Governance Code  as amended on 14 June 
2007 thereby adopting in substance the 
recommendations of the Government 
Commission on the German Corporate 
Governance Code. This declaration is  
available on the internet at:  
www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Gregorio Reyes
Chairman
10 February 2011
Corporate Governance continued