 32 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
John Matthews
Chairman of the  
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises John Matthews (Chairman), 
Ian Grice and Marie-Louise Clayton, who was appointed to the 
Committee on joining the Board on 13 November 2012. John 
Rennocks was a member of the Audit Committee until his 
resignation from the Committee on 13 November 2012; 
however John Rennocks will continue to attend meetings of the 
Committee at the invitation of the Chairman. John Matthews 
and Marie-Louise Clayton are both qualified accountants who 
have recent and relevant financial experience. 
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the 
Executive Directors and the external auditor. In addition, the 
Chairman of the Committee meets privately with the external 
auditor at least twice each year. The Group Company Secretary 
is Secretary to the Committee. 
Role of the Committee 
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are set  
out in written terms of reference which are available on the 
Company's website (www.diplomaplc.com). They are 
as follows:
 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group's financial performance, reviewing significant financial 
judgements contained therein;
 to review the Group's internal control systems and risk 
management procedures;
 to make recommendations to the Board for it to put to 
shareholders for approval in general meeting in relation to 
the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditor and to approve the terms of engagement of 
the external auditor;
 to review and monitor the external auditor's independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditor;
 to report to the Board, on any matters in respect of which it 
considers that action or improvement is needed and to make 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken; and
 to consider annually whether there is a need for a formal 
internal audit function and make recommendation to the 
Board.
Number of Committee Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2012
John Matthews (Chairman) 6/6
John Rennocks 5/5
Ian Grice 5/6
Marie-Louise Clayton (appointed 13 November 2012) 1/1
In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role to play 
through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the auditor 
relationship and auditor independence. The Committee 
reviewed the audit engagement in 2008 and following an audit 
tender process, recommended to the Board the appointment  
of Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and Group. The 
Committee supports recent guidance in the Code that the 
external audit engagement should be put out to tender at least 
every ten years.
The Committee has also established a set of guidelines covering 
the type of non-audit work that can be assigned to the external 
auditor. These relate to further assurance services where the 
auditor's detailed knowledge of the Group's affairs means that 
they may be best placed to carry out such work. This extends to, 
but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, 
regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in connection with 
disposals. Work in connection with acquisitions, including due 
diligence reviews, is generally not provided by the auditor, but is 
placed with other firms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditor; a 
separate firm is retained to provide tax advice, including any 
assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are put out to 
tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of 
demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
The Committee receives an annual report which provides details 
of any assignments and related fees carried out by the auditor in 
addition to their normal audit work, and these are reviewed 
against the above guidelines.
The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved the 
arrangements by which Group employees may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible irregularities in financial reporting 
or other matters (so called whistleblowing  procedures).
Activities During the Year
The Audit Committee assists the Board in assuring the integrity 
of the financial statements and related disclosures. 
Corporate Governance continued
Audit Committee 33
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
During the current year, the Committee carried out the 
following work:
 at its meetings in May and November, the Committee 
reviewed the Interim Report and the Annual Report & 
Accounts, respectively. On both occasions, the Committee 
received reports from the Group Finance Director and from 
the external auditor identifying any accounting or 
judgemental issues requiring its attention. At its November 
meeting, the Committee also received reports from the 
Group Internal Audit Manager; 
 in September the Committee met with the external auditor to 
discuss their audit plan process;
 in January and July the Committee met to approve formal 
Interim Management Statements which were released to the 
market, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules; and
 the Committee met on one further occasion during the year 
to review a Trading Update which the Company issued to the 
market. 
In the November meeting, the Committee reviews the 
information included in the Annual Report & Accounts to ensure 
that the information provides a fair review of the Group's 
business. It also reviews the external audit management letter 
and the procedures designed to ensure that the external auditor 
was aware of all relevant audit information , as required by the 
Companies Act 2006.
In May, the Committee also assesses the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and receives a report on the external 
auditor's own quality control procedures. This assessment 
covers all aspects of the audit service provided by the 
Company's external auditor. 
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Group's system of internal control. The system of internal 
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with 
defined authority levels. The day-to-day running of the Group's 
business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the 
Company. The Executive Directors visit each operating unit on  
a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance 
management and staff.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a 
weekly and/or monthly basis and are measured against both 
budget and half year reforecasts which have been approved and 
reviewed by the Board. On an annual basis, each business unit  
is required to prepare a risk assessment process on the key 
strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks to the Group's 
business. They include common definitions of risk and ensure, 
as far as practicable, that the policies and procedures 
established by the Board are appropriate to manage the 
perceived risks to the Group. These assessments are 
supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key financial 
controls of the business units which are critically reviewed by 
the Group's Internal Audit Manager. The Committee will 
annually review the results of these assessments and identify the 
key strategic and operating risks of the Group. During the year, 
the risk assessment process revealed no significant risks of 
which the Board was not previously aware.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have 
the largest potential impact on the Group's long term 
performance are set out on pages 22 to 25.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's risk 
management and internal control systems. T aking into account the 
processes that have been designed and implemented for 2012, the 
Board, with the advice of the Committee, has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems 
for the period from 1 October 2011 to the date of this report and is 
satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk management and 
internal control systems.
Internal Audit
The Group's finance department includes a separate internal 
audit function. This was expanded in September by the 
appointment of a second qualified internal auditor who will be 
based in Toronto, Canada and reports to the Group Internal 
Audit Manager in London. A full programme of internal audit 
visits has been completed during the year. The scope of work 
carried out by internal audit generally focuses on the internal 
financial controls and risk management procedures operating 
within each business. Written reports are prepared on the results 
of each visit which sets out weaknesses identified during the 
work, together with recommendations to improve the control 
environment. These reports are reviewed and discussed with 
the Executive Directors. 
At the conclusion of the financial year, the Group Internal Audit 
Manager reports to the Committee on the results of the audit 
work carried out in the year and agrees an Audit Plan for the 
following financial year. There were no significant weaknesses 
identified in the audits undertaken during the current year, but a 
number of recommendations were made to improve internal 
review processes and risk management procedures, particularly 
in the newly acquired businesses and where the opportunity to 
segregate duties was limited. 
The Committee continues to keep under review the need for a 
more independent internal audit function in the Group. The 
Committee remains satisfied that the Group's system of internal 
control is appropriate for a group of the size and nature of 
Diploma PLC and the Committee's current view is that a separate 
formal independent internal audit function is not necessary.