 The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance,
which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The directors believe that the principal function of the Board is to continue to deliver sustainable wealth for the Group's investors,
and that this should be achieved within the acknowledged corporate governance guidelines. The directors confirm that they have
continued to ensure that the Group applies and maintains the principles of good corporate governance set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code, in so far as it is practicable for a public company of its size. Further explanation of how the principles have been
applied in connection with directors' remuneration is set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Directors There are regular Board meetings during the year, usually held quarterly. All directors receive reports prior to each meeting and the
Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions, including overall Group strategy, acquisitions,
disposals, capital expenditure, determining financing matters and treasury policy. Papers are despatched to all Board members in
advance of all meetings with sufficient timeliness to enable them to discharge their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the advice and service of the company secretary who is responsible to the Board, ensuring that Board
procedures are followed. The Board has established an agreed procedure whereby any director, wishing to do so in the furtherance
of his duties, may take independent professional advice at the Company's expense. No external advice was sought during the year.
Although, given their extensive business interests outside the Group, the non-executive directors bring strong independent
judgement and knowledge to the Board's deliberations, only J. J. Hobbs would be considered independent under the terms of the
Code. C. MacDonald-Hall could not be considered independent given that he was formerly an executive director of the Company, his
length of service to the Company and the extent of his shareholding in the Company. The non-executives do not participate in any
of the Company's share option schemes or the senior bonus scheme and their service is non-pensionable.
Given the Group's size and structure, it has remained possible for J.C. Smith to continue in the role of Executive Chairman
throughout the year. This has served the Group well over many years and there are no plans to change this arrangement in the near
future. J.J. Hobbs, as Deputy Chairman, fulfils the role of senior independent director and together with C. MacDonald-Hall ensures
that there is no undue influence exerted over the Board by any individual.
Given the size of the Board a balance between executives and non-executives has always proved difficult to maintain. Throughout
the year, the Board has consisted of three executive directors and two non-executives. However, as described above, this
constitution ensures that no individual dominates the Board's decision taking.
The Nomination Committee comprises J. C. Smith, J. J. Hobbs and C. MacDonald-Hall. It is chaired by J. C. Smith and meets as
required to select suitable candidates for appointment as executive and non-executive directors.
Under the Company's Articles of Association, at every annual general meeting, a third of all directors must retire by rotation. All
directors are subject to this article.
Relations with shareholders The Company welcomes discussions with shareholders where practicable. The directors of the Company are always available to
participate in meetings with institutional shareholders at their request.
Shareholders are given notice of the annual general meeting and details of the matters to be discussed in advance. At this meeting,
all shareholders are invited by the Chairman to ask relevant questions and all reasonable effort is made to deal in as full a manner
as possible with all matters properly raised. In line with the requirements of the Combined Code, information relating to the level of
proxies lodged at this meeting is formally announced to shareholders after each resolution has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Accountability and Audit The Chairman's Statement on page 3 contains information relevant to an assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
Statements regarding the directors' responsibilities for preparing the Group's financial statements and the auditors' responsibilities
for reporting on them are set out on pages 12 and 13.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control. This system has been designed to ensure reasonable,
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Group's assets and is designed to bring
to the attention of the directors matters requiring attention on a timely basis so that they may be considered and dealt with
effectively.
Corporate Governance Statement
6 The directors have reviewed the internal control systems in place throughout the year and report their findings under the following
headings:
Control environment
There is a clearly defined organisational structure that allows the Group's objectives to be planned, communicated, executed,
controlled and monitored. The Group is committed to employing suitably qualified staff so that the appropriate level of authority can
be delegated to ensure the efficient management of the business.
Identification and evaluation of business risks and control objectives
The identification and evaluation of financial business risks facing the Group are reviewed as part of the development of the annual 
operating and budgetary plans. For other non-financial business risks the Board meets annually to consider formally and review the 
extent and nature of the major perceived risks to the business and the effectiveness of its internal controls in safeguarding against
these risks. In addition, both senior management and the directors continually monitor and develop appropriate control policies on
an ongoing basis to manage any new or existing areas of risk identified. These policies determine the key control procedures for
each area of risk as defined within the business and are communicated and enforced throughout all appropriate areas of the
organisation.
Information systems
The management information systems provide the business with relevant and timely reports from which both the directors and
senior management can monitor the performance of the business. Budgets are prepared and submitted to the Board for approval
and, together with data from prior years, provide the directors and senior management with comparative information on which to
assess and monitor the performance of the various activities of the Group.
Clear lines of authority exist between each subsidiary business and the Board. Consistent with the Group's policy of delegating
responsibility and commensurate authority to the management of the subsidiary businesses, the Board has delegated day to day
responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of internal financial controls to each business.
The Executive Chairman attends all board meetings of subsidiary businesses and regular contact on a more informal basis occurs as
and when issues develop. These procedures are supplemented by internal financial reviews and quarterly internal control
questionnaires.
Main control and monitoring procedures
The directors and senior management implement the control objectives of the Group through the adoption of defined controls and
procedures. Existing controls include the review of financial information, the setting of appropriate authority levels, the segregation
of incompatible duties and the defining of procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for major transactions and organisational
changes, in addition to compliance with operational best practices and compatibility with current legislation.
The executive directors have a significant involvement in the day to day management of the Group's activities and are, therefore,
able to monitor the control procedures at an operational level.
Regular financial reviews are conducted internally to ensure assets are safeguarded and to monitor compliance with the Group's
internal financial procedures, which have been set out clearly in the Group financial manual. These reviews and assessments from
financial and non-financial audits are circulated to all relevant executive directors highlighting any potential or perceived areas of
weakness to enable their timely resolution or refinement on an ongoing basis.
In addition to the monitoring of controls by the executive directors, any reportable weaknesses identified by the Group's external
auditors during the annual audit are discussed with the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman and is chaired by the Deputy Chairman. The
committee is responsible for reviewing the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts and it oversees the controls
necessary to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders. The Audit Committee discusses the nature,
scope and findings of the audit with the external auditors. Meetings are normally held three times a year although additional
meetings are held as appropriate.
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
7 The Audit Committee selects the auditors, approves their fees and reviews performance independently and objectively. The auditors
may carry out non-audit work such as in relation to borrowing and shareholders' circulars, taxation and, on occasion, due diligence
in connection with acquisitions.
Statement of compliance with The directors believe that the Group has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in the Combined Code on
the Combined Code Corporate Governance, except for the following matters;
Code Provision
A.3.2. Only one non-executive director would be considered independent under the terms of the Code.
B.1.7. Executive directors hold service contracts containing notice periods of more than twelve months.
B.2.2. The Executive Chairman is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
D.3.1. The requirement that the Audit Committee should consist of three non-executive directors. The Company has
two non-executive directors in total, both of whom are members of the Audit Committee, along with the
Executive Chairman.
With due regard to the Group's individual circumstances, the directors are currently of the opinion that the non-compliance with
regard to these areas is appropriate to the business requirements given the specific composition, size and structure of the Group,
and that the non-compliance does not prejudice investors' interests.
Adoption of Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
Basis continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement - continued
8