 14	 Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2005
The Company fully supports the Principles of Good Governance 
and the Code of Best Practice issued in July 2003 ( the Combined 
Code').
Except as stated in the sections on the Audit Committee and 
Dialogue with Shareholders the Company has, throughout the year, 
been in compliance with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of 
the Combined Code.
Board	of	Directors
The Board comprises the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors 
and five Executive Directors. The roles of Chairman and Group 
Managing Director are defined and separate. The division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman and Managing Director is 
clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
which enables it to provide effective leadership and control of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. It also ensures that the decision 
making process cannot be dominated by any individual or small 
group of individuals.
All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent  
of management and free from any business or other relationship which 
materially affects their independent judgement. Mr J L Smith is the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. Mr Smith has served  
on the Board since 1986. The length of this service is one of the 
circumstances which the Combined Code provision A.3.1 identifies  
as relevant to the determination of independence. Despite this 
circumstance, the Board has determined that Mr Smith is independent 
in character and judgement. Throughout his term of office Mr Smith 
has demonstrated a scrupulously independent approach. His extensive 
knowledge of the Company, coupled with his high level international 
legal and business experience, is invaluable to the Board. None of the 
other factors which the Combined Code identifies as relevant to the 
determination of independence applies to Mr Smith.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can  
be viewed on the Company's website or are available from the 
Company Secretary.
The Board met eight times during the year to consider operational, 
financial and strategic matters. All Directors attended each Board 
meeting except for Mr Everitt and Mr Cope both of whom did  
not attend one meeting. There is a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for the Board's decision. The Chairman 
periodically meets with the Non-Executive Directors without  
the Executive Directors being present.
In broad terms, the Board is responsible for creating and maintaining 
the framework within which the Company operates. It sets the 
Company's strategy, objectives and policies and approves operating and 
capital expenditure budgets and material initiatives and commitments. 
The executive managers are responsible for the decisions necessary to 
implement such strategies, policies and initiatives.
Corporate	 Governance	 For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 October	 2005
Every month each Director receives detailed written reports on  
the performance of the Group, future plans and any significant 
issues facing the business. In addition, senior management regularly 
give presentations to the Board on matters requiring Board 
approval or on topics that the Board selects. 
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent 
professional advice at the Company's expense if this is necessary in 
connection with their duties. The Company arranges appropriate 
insurance cover in respect of legal action against Directors.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual 
General Meeting after their appointment and all Directors submit 
themselves for re-election each year. The Non-Executive Directors 
were appointed for specified terms subject to re-election and to 
Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of 
new Directors to the Board, which is described in the Nomination 
Committee section.
Board	committees
The Board has three standing committees:
Audit	Committee
Members: J L Smith (Chairman), P J Byrom, W H Everitt, P C Ruffles 
and P S Jensen.
Each year the Committee makes an assessment of the qualifications, 
expertise, resource and independence of the Company's auditors. 
This assessment is based upon reports produced by the auditors, 
the Committee's own dealings with the auditors and feedback  
from the Executive team.
Prior to the commencement of each audit, the auditors present  
a proposal to the Committee detailing how the audit will be 
conducted and the fees payable. The Committee reviews the 
proposal with senior representatives of the auditors. 
The Committee meets with the auditors to consider the interim 
and full year financial statements and to review a report by the 
auditors on any issues raised by the audit. The Committee met once 
during the year with the auditors without members of the Executive 
team being present.
The independence and objectivity of the auditors is regularly 
considered by the Committee. The Committee receives an annual 
statement from the auditors detailing their independence policies 
and safeguards and confirming their independence.
The Committee monitors the fees paid to the auditors in respect of 
non-audit work. As a matter of policy, the only non-audit work which 
the auditors routinely undertake is tax compliance and acquisition due 
diligence. The Committee considers that it is cost effective to use the 
auditors for such work and that the amount and nature of such work 
does not impair the independence and objectivity of the auditors. 15	 Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2005
The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of systems to 
identify and address both financial and non-financial risk. Detailed 
presentations on risk control issues are made to the full Board. The 
Committee is responsible for reviewing  whistle-blowing' procedures.
The Committee reviews the internal audit programme with  
the Group Financial Controller who has responsibility for the 
programme. The Audit Committee has access to all internal audit 
reports and the Group Financial Controller has a direct reporting 
line to the Audit Committee Chairman on any issue relating to 
internal audits.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Mr Byrom's membership of the Audit Committee means that 
throughout the year the Company has not been in compliance with 
provision C.3.1. of the Combined Code which requires all members 
of the Committee to be Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board has reviewed the membership of the Committee  
and determined that Mr Byrom should remain because of his 
financial experience.
Nomination	Committee
Members: P J Byrom (Chairman), J L Smith, W H Everitt,  
P C Ruffles, P S Jensen and N R Bond.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending 
suitable candidates for appointment to the Board.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for appointments  
to the Board. Under this procedure, a detailed job specification is 
drawn up and a recruitment consultancy engaged to identify suitable 
candidates. Candidates are assessed against the job specification and 
selected candidates are interviewed by members of the Nomination 
Committee and other Directors and Senior Managers. The final 
appointment decision is made by the Board.
During the year, this process was used in the appointment of  
Mr Waddingham as Group Technical Director.
The Committee considers succession planning for appointments  
to the Board and keeps under review the leadership needs of the 
Company.
The Committee advises the Board on the reappointment of Non-
Executive Directors and the independence of such Directors. It also 
reviews the structure, size, composition and performance of the 
Board and its Committees and makes recommendations to the 
Board regarding such matters.
The Committee met once during the year.
Remuneration	Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the separate 
Board Report on Remuneration set out on pages 17 to 19.
Committee	meeting	attendance
All Committee members attended each Committee meeting.
Committee	terms	of	reference
The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Nomination and 
Audit Committees can be viewed on the Company's website or 
copies obtained from the Company Secretary.
Performance	evaluation
The Nomination Committee met during the year to appraise  
the performance of the Board and its Committees and to make 
recommendations to the Board.
The Chairman appraised the performance of the individual Board 
members in conjunction with the Managing Director where 
appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman being 
present to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
These appraisals had regard to the issues raised in the Performance 
Evaluation Guidance contained in the Higgs Report and the Board 
evaluation questions published by the Commonwealth Association 
for Corporate Governance.
Internal	controls
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. They 
have established a system that is designed to provide reasonable but 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the key risks faced by the Group that has been in 
place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval 
of the annual report. The process is regularly reviewed by the Board 
and accords with the Guidelines for Directors on the Combined 
Code. Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control further 
into the operations of the business and to deal with any issues that 
come to the Board's attention. The Directors have reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Financial	control
The key internal financial controls that were in operation during the 
year were:
Financial reporting - all operating units complete formal business 
plans for the year. Each month, the unit produces written reports  
in a defined format on its performance against these plans and 
provides updated business forecasts. The Board reviews these 
reports and forecasts.
Accounting policies and procedures - detailed accounting policies and 
procedures are in place. Written confirmation of compliance with 
the policies and procedures is obtained from local management. 
There is a formal internal audit process to verify the application  
of Group policies and procedures and to confirm that there is an 