 28
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company fully supports the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in 2008 (the  Combined Code').
Except as stated in the section on dialogue with shareholders, the Company has, throughout the year, been in compliance with the Code Provisions 
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code. An explanation of how the 
principles have been applied is set out below and in the Remuneration Report and the Audit Committee section of this report.
BOa Rd OF d iReCt ORS
The Board comprises the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors. The roles of Chairman and Group Managing 
Director are defined and separate. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Managing Director is clearly established, set 
out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, which enables it to provide effective leadership and control of the Company 
and its subsidiaries. It also ensures that the decision making process cannot be dominated by any individual or small group of individuals.
inde Penden Ce OF di ReCt ORS
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which 
affects their independent judgement. Mr Ruffles is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board believes that, to be judged independent, each Director should be impartial and free from any relationship or connection which could 
affect their ability to discharge their responsibilities impartially and objectively. In addition, each Director should in practice have demonstrated a 
scrupulously independent approach by conducting himself impartially in all matters relating to the Group, challenging the views of management and 
other Board members and by showing a willingness and ability to defend his own views. 
On the basis of these criteria, the Board has determined that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent. In reaching this conclusion the 
Board has considered the factors identified in Combined Code provision A.3.1. The only one of these factors relevant in Domino's case is the 
length of service of Mr Ruffles who joined the Board in 2002. The Board believes that no connection or relationship has arisen from this period of 
service which impairs Mr Ruffles' independence. He has continued to approach all his duties as a Non-Executive Director in an entirely objective 
and impartial manner. The annual appraisal process has confirmed that Mr Ruffles remains a very effective member of the Board.
Details of the backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 22.
t eRmS OF a PPOintment and time CO mmitment
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be viewed on the Company's website or are available from the Company Secretary. 
The Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend approximately 20 days per year on Domino business. This comprises approximately 10 days 
per year attending Board and committee meetings and the remainder spent in preparation and in providing advice and assistance.
aC tivitie S OF the B Oa Rd and attendan Ce
The Board met eight times during the year to consider operational, financial and strategic matters. All Directors attended each meeting except that 
Mr Brinsmead did not attend two meetings and Mr Herbert did not attend one meeting. There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved 
for the Board's decision. The Chairman periodically meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
In broad terms, the Board is responsible for creating and maintaining the framework within which the Group operates. It sets the Group's strategy, 
objectives and policies and approves operating and capital expenditure budgets and material initiatives and commitments. The executive managers 
are responsible for the decisions necessary to implement such strategies, policies and initiatives.
Each Director regularly receives detailed written reports on the performance of the Group, future plans and any significant issues facing the 
business. Standard formats have been developed for these reports to ensure key facts are readily ascertainable. In addition, senior management give 
presentations to the Board on matters requiring Board approval or on topics that the Board selects. For example, the Board received presentations 
on specific development projects and investment proposals. One meeting during the year is scheduled over two days and set aside to consider 
strategic issues. 
inde Pendent le Gal advi Ce
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense if this is necessary in connection with 
their duties.
CORPORate GOve Rnan Ce
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 29
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
d iReCt ORS' in Su Ran Ce and indemnity a RRan Gement S
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors' and Officers' liability insurance. The Directors also have the benefit of 
the indemnity provision contained in the Company's Articles of Association. The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for 
the benefit of its Directors.
Re-eleC ti On
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and the Board has decided that all 
the Directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting. 
The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for specified terms subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of 
a Director. 
aPPO intment OF new di ReCt ORS
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, which is described in the Nomination 
Committee section. 
COn Fli Ct S OF inte ReSt
Directors are required by law to avoid situations which give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest with the Company unless such a situation 
has been authorised by the Board. The Company has adopted and followed a procedure under which Directors must declare actual or potential 
conflicts as they arise and the Board reviews potential conflicts of interest arising from other posts held by Directors on an annual basis. 
During the year authorisation has been given for potential conflicts of interest arising as a consequence of other positions held by some Directors. 
No actual conflicts of interest arising in respect of specific arrangements or transactions have been declared to the Board.
In determining whether to authorise conflicts of interest only those Directors who have no interest in the matter may make the decision and they 
must act in good faith in the manner most likely to promote the Company's success. 
BOa Rd CO mmittee S
The Board has three standing committees:
a udit Committee
Members: Sir Mark Wrightson (Committee Chairman), Mr P C Ruffles, Mr C Brinsmead and Sir David Brown. Sir Mark Wrightson has relevant 
financial experience. Each year the Committee makes an assessment of the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the Company's 
auditors. This assessment is based upon reports produced by the auditors, the Committee's own dealings with the auditors and feedback from the 
Executive team.
Prior to the commencement of each audit, the auditors present a proposal to the Committee detailing how the audit will be conducted and the 
fees payable. The Committee reviews the proposal with senior representatives of the auditors. 
The Committee meets with the auditors to consider the interim and full year financial statements and to review a report by the auditors on any 
issues raised by the audit. 
The independence and objectivity of the auditors is regularly considered by the Committee. The Committee receives an annual statement from the 
auditors detailing their independence policies and safeguards and confirming their independence. The Committee ensures that an audit partner 
rotation policy is operated and reviews the relationship between auditor and management to see if this has the potential to affect independence.
The Committee monitors the fees paid to the auditors in respect of non-audit work. As a matter of policy, the only non-audit work which the 
auditors may undertake is tax compliance and acquisition due diligence. The Committee considers that it is cost effective to use the auditors for 
such work and that the amount and nature of such work does not impair the independence and objectivity of the auditors. Specific Audit 
Committee approval is required to engage the auditors to provide any other type of non-audit work. The Committee would only give approval if it 
was satisfied that it would be beneficial to use the auditors and the nature and extent of the work would not impair auditor independence.
The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of systems to identify and address both financial and non-financial risk. Detailed presentations 
on risk control issues are made to the full Board. The Committee is responsible for reviewing  whistle-blowing' procedures.
The Committee reviews the internal audit programme with the Group Financial Controller, who has responsibility for the programme. The Audit 
Committee has access to all internal audit reports and the Group Financial Controller has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee Chairman 
on any issue relating to internal audits.
The Committee met twice during the year.