 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 31
The procedures adopted by the Group to manage
its key risks, including environmental, social and
governance risks, and to comply with the guidance of
the Turnbull Committee are described in the Corporate
Governance section on pages 38 to 40. The Group's
exposure to individual risks is limited and diversified by
the fact that it has several distinct types of activity, with
27 business sectors operating from over 100 sites in
16 different countries, and it sells to a broad range of
customers. Any significant commercial and other risks
that are specific to a business segment are described
within the narrative on that segment. The principal
Group-wide key risks and the way they are managed
are described below. The Group seeks to mitigate its
insurable risks through an insurance programme that
covers property and liability risks where it is relevant
and cost-effective to do so.
Movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates
These risks and the way in which they are managed
through the Group's Treasury Committee and its
subsidiary committees or groups are described
on pages 28 and 29.
The funding position on the Group's UK defined benefit
pension scheme and the consequent impact of any
deficit on corporate activity
The funding on the Group's defined benefit scheme
is sensitive to a number of factors. The Group faces
the risk that this funding position will deteriorate over
time, in particular if actual longevity exceeds current
assumptions and investment returns are lower than
expected. The Group and the scheme's trustee have
sought to mitigate this risk through the scheme's
investment strategy and through having increased the
contributions made to the scheme by both the members
and the Group. The regulatory environment for pension
schemes and their trustees has changed in recent years,
in particular with the Pensions Act 2004: the presence
of a deficit in a scheme may now oblige the trustee or
possibly the Pensions Regulator to seek some further
funding of the scheme in the event of a significant
corporate action or perceived decline in the Group's
financial covenant.
The continuing availability of borrowing facilities,
including compliance with borrowing covenants
The Group's borrowing facilities and their management
through the Treasury Committee are described on
pages 28 and 29.
Serious breaches of the law or other regulations
The Group's Key Corporate Values, which are described
in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review
on page 33 and are available in full on the Group's
website, require all employees to comply with all relevant
laws and regulations in the countries in which they
operate. The Group recognises the risk that substantial
fines, or other penalties, may be imposed for non-
compliance with laws and regulations relating to
competition, environmental, health and safety or
other matters, and has control mechanisms, ongoing
programmes and systems, and special initiatives in
place for monitoring compliance. It also carries out
training programmes for employees and has systems
in place to share expertise and best practice on these
matters. The Group has a workplace malpractice
policy, and a process for employees to report any
suspected wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place
across its international operations where such reporting
is permitted by law.
Political instability
Profits from the Group's wholly-owned operations are
not subject to any significant degree of political risk
as they are almost entirely located in countries which
are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD), members of which
are committed to democratic government and the market
economy. The Group's adjusted after tax profits from
associated undertakings, which totalled  3.9 million
in 2006/07, are currently exposed to some political
risk as they are substantially derived from Rubezhansk,
a paper and corrugated packaging business located
in Ukraine, a country which has recently experienced
political instability. The Group's ability to manage this
risk is also lessened since it has influence, rather than
control, over these operations. The Group maintains
a close relationship with local management and regular
visits are made to Ukraine by Group executives to
ensure a good understanding of the business and
the context in which it is operating.
Volatility and increasing energy prices
The Group's exposure to energy costs is described
on page 28 and is being managed in a number of
ways. The Group is looking to maximise in-house
energy generation from its combined heat and power
(CHP) plants in the UK and France and a UK waste-to-
energy plant, thereby taking advantage of the greater
efficiency of the CHP process. It is also investigating
the potential for the use of renewable or low-carbon
energy sources, including refuse-derived fuel. The
Group has recently closed two of its least energy-
efficient operations and continues to reduce its energy
usage through energy-saving projects; these factors
contributed significantly to a 15% reduction in the
Group's energy usage in 2006/07 compared with
2005/06. The Group has developed further its
Business Review
Risk Management Business Review
Risk Management continued
centralised energy-purchasing approach in the UK and
France, which enables it to obtain economies of scale
in buying and to apply specialist expertise, including
the application of price-hedging techniques. Regulatory
developments in the energy market are monitored and
the Group collaborates, when appropriate, with other
heavy energy users in the paper and other industry
sectors to influence government on energy policy and
the operation of the energy markets.
Increasing costs in the medium-term related to climate
change and carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions.
As a result of its substantial energy usage, the Group is
likely, in the medium-term, to be increasingly subject to
regulation and taxation of its CO
2
emissions. The details
of this and the actions being taken to reduce the Group's
future energy usage and CO
2
emissions are described
in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 34
and 35 and in the statement of the Group's strategy
for managing its energy costs above in this section.
Changes in packaging demand as a result of
environmental concerns
The increasing concerns of consumers, retailers and
government about conservation of resources and waste
reduction may result in lower total usage of packaging
or changes in the pattern of demand for certain types
of packaging. The positive role that most packaging
plays in contributing to reducing total waste in the
supply chain and the actions that the Group's
packaging businesses have been taking for a number
of years to minimise the use of resources, are described
in the Packaging and the Environment section of the
Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 35 to 37.
Our packaging businesses are increasingly working
with the other members of their product supply chains to
minimise the total environmental impact of the production,
distribution, use and disposal of goods. At the same
time, the Group is collaborating with other companies
which produce, specify or use packaging to increase
the understanding of government and other opinion-
formers of the positive role packaging does, and can
in future, play in achieving more sustainable consumption.
Volatility of pricing and availability of globally traded
raw materials
In 2006/07, the Group purchased over  75 million
of waste paper and approximately  85 million of
polymers and films as the principal raw materials in
its Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses, respectively.
These products are globally traded and subject to
variations in supply and demand which result in
volatility in their pricing. The Group endeavours to
recover any raw material cost increases through good
material usage programmes and through price rises.
Approximately one-third of the Group's corrugated
and plastic packaging customer contracts include
arrangements to link selling prices to an index of raw
material prices. The achievement of price increases for
the majority of our Packaging business is substantially
determined by the state of supply and demand in the
relevant market at any time. Due to the variety of
contractual arrangements with customers, margins
may be squeezed for a period of time until price
increases are achieved to recover input cost increases.
The Group's Severnside Recycling business collects
and trades waste paper to ensure a continuous
cost-competitive supply to the Group's paper mills.
It achieves this through long-term contracts with
major suppliers of waste paper and the collection
of waste from smaller suppliers through its network
of collection depots.
Of the Group's total polymer and film purchases in
2006/07, polycarbonate, polypropylene and high
density polyethylene accounted for approximately
45% with the remainder comprising a large number of
different polymers and films. The Group has developed
a good level of knowledge in polymer purchasing and
uses a number of suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at
competitive prices.
Product liability
The Group's packaging products, many of which are
supplied into the food and beverage industries, may
give rise to potentially substantial product liability
claims in the event of a failure of the packaging to
perform its function when in use or from contamination
of the product by its packaging. The potential for such
claims is reduced by the fact that the majority of the
Group's packaging is used as secondary, or transit,
packaging and does not come into direct contact with
the products it ultimately protects. The Group takes all
reasonable steps to ensure the safety and adequate
performance levels of its packaging through design,
manufacturing control processes, technical testing and
other means while having appropriate product liability
insurances in place. It also looks to minimise its product
liability risk through its relevant terms and conditions
of trading.
Other social and environmental matters
The Group's management of other social and
environmental risks is described in the Corporate
Responsibility Review on pages 33 to 37.
32 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007