 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 31
Risk Management
The Group has further strengthened its procedures
for understanding and managing its significant risks.
The procedures adopted by the Group to manage its key
risks, including environmental, social and governance risks,
and to comply with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee
are described in the Corporate Governance section on
pages 40 to 42. In April 2008, a Group Risks Committee
was established. This is comprised of the Group Chief
Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Human
Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional
Chief Executives and the Head of Operational Audit and
will meet at least four times a year to review the risks faced
by the Group and the adequacy and suitability of the
mitigation arrangements in place to manage those risks.
The Group's exposure to individual risks is limited and
diversified by the fact that it has several distinct types of
activity, with 30 business sectors operating from over 100
sites in 20 different countries, and it sells to a broad range
of customers. Any significant commercial and other risks 
that are specific to a business segment are described within
the narrative on that segment. The principal Group-wide key
risks and the way they are managed are described below.
The Group seeks to mitigate its insurable risks through an
insurance programme that covers property and liability 
risks where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
Movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates 
These risks and the way in which they are managed 
through the Group's Treasury Committee and its subsidiary
committees or groups are described on pages 28 and 29. 
The funding position of the Group's UK defined benefit
pension scheme and the consequent impact of any deficit on
corporate activity 
The funding of the Group's defined benefit scheme is
sensitive to a number of factors. The Group faces the risk
that this funding position will deteriorate over time, in
particular if actual longevity exceeds current assumptions
and investment returns are lower than expected. The Group
and the scheme's trustee have sought to mitigate this risk
through the scheme's investment strategy and through
having increased the contributions made to the scheme 
by both the members and the Group. The regulatory
environment for pension schemes and their trustees has
changed in recent years, in particular with the Pensions 
Act 2004: the presence of a deficit in a scheme may now
oblige the trustee or possibly the Pensions Regulator to 
seek some further funding of the scheme in the event of 
a significant corporate action or perceived decline in the
Group's financial covenant. 
The continuing availability of borrowing facilities, including
compliance with borrowing covenants 
The Group's borrowing facilities and their management
through the Treasury Committee are described on pages 
28 and 29. 
Serious breaches of the law or other regulations 
The Group's Key Corporate Values, which are described 
in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review 
on page 33 and are available in full at
www.dssmith.uk.com/pages/Policies.asp, on the Group's
website, require all employees to comply with all relevant
laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate.
The Group recognises the risk that substantial fines, or other
penalties, may be imposed for non-compliance with laws
and regulations relating to competition, environmental,
health and safety or other matters, and has control
mechanisms, ongoing programmes and systems, and
special initiatives in place for monitoring compliance. It 
also carries out training programmes for employees and 
has systems in place to share expertise and best practice 
on these matters. The Group has a Workplace Malpractice
Policy, and a process for employees to report any suspected
wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place across its
international operations where such reporting is 
permitted by law. 
Political instability 
Profits from the Group's wholly-owned operations are not
subject to any significant degree of political risk as they 
are almost entirely located in countries which are members
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), members of which are committed 
to democratic government and the market economy. 
The Group's adjusted after tax profits from associated
undertakings, which totalled  3.4 million in 2007/08, 
are currently exposed to some political risk as they are
substantially derived from Rubezhansk, a paper and
corrugated packaging business located in Ukraine, a
country which has recently experienced political instability.
The Group's ability to manage this risk is also lessened 
since it has influence, rather than control, over these
operations. The Group maintains a close relationship with
local management and regular visits are made to Ukraine
by Group executives to ensure a good understanding of 
the business and the context in which it is operating. 
Volatility and increasing energy prices 
The Group's exposure to energy costs is described on page
28 and is being managed in a number of ways. The Group
is looking to maximise in-house energy generation from its
combined heat and power (CHP) plants in the UK and
France and a UK waste-to-energy plant, thereby taking
advantage of the greater efficiency of the CHP process. 
It is also investigating the potential for the use of renewable
or low-carbon energy sources, including refuse-derived fuel.
The Group continues to undertake a wide range of energy-
saving projects aimed at increasing its energy efficiency
and reducing its energy usage. In 2007/08, the Group
reduced its energy usage by 2% compared with 2006/07.
The Group maintains a centralised energy-purchasing
approach in the UK and France, which enables it to obtain
economies of scale in buying and to apply specialist
expertise, including the application of hedging techniques.
Regulatory developments in the energy market are monitored
and the Group collaborates, when appropriate, with other
heavy energy users in the paper and other industry sectors
to influence government on energy policy and the operation
of energy markets.  32 www.dssmith.uk.com
Business Review
Risk Management continued
Increasing costs in the medium-term related 
to climate change and carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions
As a result of its substantial energy usage, the Group is
likely, in the medium-term, to be increasingly subject to
regulation and taxation of its CO
2
emissions. The details 
of this and the actions being taken to reduce the Group's
future energy usage and CO
2
emissions are described in
the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 35 and in the
statement of the Group's strategy for managing its energy
costs on page 31. 
Changes in packaging demand as a result 
of environmental concerns 
The continuing concerns of consumers, retailers and
government about conservation of resources and waste
reduction may result in lower total usage of packaging 
or changes in the pattern of demand for certain types of
packaging. The positive role that most packaging plays
in contributing to reducing total waste in the supply chain
and the actions that the Group's packaging businesses 
have been taking for a number of years to minimise the 
use of resources, are described in the Packaging and the
Environment section of the Corporate Responsibility Review
on pages 34 and 35. Our packaging businesses work 
with the other members of their product supply chains to
minimise the total environmental impact of the production,
distribution, use and disposal of goods. Severnside
Recycling, the Group's UK waste collection business works
closely with DS Smith Packaging, our UK box business, in
marketing our cradle-to-cradle environmental capability
which encompasses: the Group's expertise in designing
packaging that will minimise waste throughout the supply
chain; the environmental benefits of the recyclability of
corrugated packaging; and Severnside's capability for
managing customers' entire waste recycling and disposal
needs. The Group also collaborates with other companies
which produce, specify or use packaging to increase the
understanding of government and other opinion-formers of
the positive role packaging does, and can in the future, play 
in achieving more sustainable consumption. 
Volatility of pricing and availability of globally traded 
raw materials 
In 2007/08, the Group purchased approximately  100
million of waste paper and approximately  85 million 
of polymers and films as the principal raw materials in its
Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses, respectively. These
products are globally traded and subject to variations in
supply and demand which result in volatility in their pricing.
The Group endeavours to recover any raw material cost
increases through good material usage programmes and
through price rises. Approximately one-third of the Group's
corrugated and plastic packaging customer contracts
include arrangements to link selling prices to an index of
raw material prices. The achievement of price increases 
for the majority of our Packaging business is substantially
determined by the state of supply and demand in the
relevant market at any time. Due to the variety of contractual
arrangements with customers, margins may be squeezed 
for a period of time until price increases are achieved to
recover input cost increases. 
The Group's Severnside Recycling business collects and
trades waste paper to ensure a continuous cost-competitive
supply to the Group's paper mills. It achieves this through
long-term contracts with major suppliers of waste paper 
and the collection of waste from smaller suppliers through 
its network of collection depots. 
Of the Group's total polymer and film purchases in
2007/08, polycarbonate, polypropylene and high density
polyethylene accounted for approximately 50% with the
remainder comprising a large number of different polymers
and films. The Group has developed a good level of
knowledge in polymer purchasing and uses a number of
suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at competitive prices. 
Product liability 
The Group's packaging products, many of which are
supplied into the food and beverage industries, may give
rise to potentially substantial product liability claims in the
event of a failure of the packaging to perform its function
when in use or from contamination of the product by its
packaging. The potential for such claims is reduced by the
fact that the majority of the Group's packaging is used as
secondary, or transit, packaging and does not come into
direct contact with the products it ultimately protects. The
Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and
adequate performance levels of its packaging through
design, manufacturing control processes, technical testing
and other means while having appropriate product liability
insurances in place. It also looks to minimise its product
liability risk through its relevant terms and conditions 
of trading. 
Other social and environmental matters 
The Group's management of other social and environmental
risks is described in the Corporate Responsibility Review on
pages 33 to 37.