 www.dunelm-mill.com
12/13  Job:	 11165_DUN_AR08_bck_AW	 Proof:	 05	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	r	o	b	 Date:	 23.09.08	
Server:	 Studio	2	 Set-up:	 rich	 First	Read/Revisions
Corporate  governance  report
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. This report explains how the Group has applied 
the principles of good governance and code of best 
practice set out in the Combined Code dated 2006.
Throughout the financial year the Group has complied with 
the Combined Code except that Geoff Cooper, Company 
Chairman, is also Chairman of the Audit Committee. Given 
the balance of other independent Non-Executive Directors 
who sit on the committee this is not considered to result in the 
Chairman exercising undue influence over the committee.
The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, 
making decisions relating to the Group's strategic direction 
and measuring progress towards strategic goals.
The Board has 10 scheduled meetings per annum, including 
one strategy meeting. There was full attendance at all Board 
and Committee meetings during the year except that Bill 
Adderley was absent from two Board meetings prior to his 
retirement and Simon Emeny was absent from one meeting.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for 
decision or approval, which is available on the Group's 
website or from the Company Secretary. Examples of such 
matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital 
structure, approval of financial results and report and 
accounts, significant capital or contractual commitments, 
maintaining internal control and risk management, and 
approval of Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive reports on operational 
performance (including health and safety) and the Finance 
Director reports on financial performance. Other matters are 
discussed by the Board as required, supported by a briefing 
paper where a decision is to be made by the Board.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by 
the Company Secretary and committee secretaries 
respectively and circulated for approval. Any unresolved 
concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors meet 
from time to time without Executive Directors being present. 
In addition the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity 
to meet at least once a year without the Chairman present 
as part of the appraisal process.
Directors
The Non-Executive Chairman is Geoff Cooper and the Chief 
Executive is Will Adderley. The Board has adopted a written 
statement setting out their respective responsibilities. In 
general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the 
Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the 
Group's business. 
The other Non-Executive Directors are Marion Sears and 
Simon Emeny. David Stead is an Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director is Marion Sears.
The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent 
on appointment, and that Marion Sears and Simon Emeny 
are independent. Overall the Board considers that there is a 
good balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Directors are required to retire from the Board by rotation and 
offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Board committees
The Audit  Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, the other 
members are Marion Sears and Simon Emeny. The Board 
considers that Geoff Cooper has recent and relevant 
financial experience by virtue of his professional qualification 
and his current executive role with Travis Perkins plc.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are 
available on the Group's website or from the Company 
Secretary.
The committee is scheduled to meet at least three times a 
year, to coincide with key dates in the Group's financial 
reporting and audit cycle. During the period under review it 
met in September, February and April with full attendance. 
The Finance Director usually attends meetings by invitation, 
along with a representative from the external auditors.
The principal responsibilities of the committee are to:
monitor the integrity of the Group's financial statements 
and public announcements relating to financial 
performance;
oversee the external audit process, including the 
appointment of the auditors, their objectiveness and 
independence and the scope and effectiveness of the 
audit;
monitor the effectiveness of internal controls and consider 
annually the need for an internal audit function; and
review the process for identifying and managing risk 
throughout the Group.
During the year the committee:
approved the interim results issued in March;
decided that an internal audit function was not required 
in view of the adequacy of financial controls in place;
confirmed the Group's policy for use of the auditors for 
non-audit advice;
verified the independence of the auditors, and approved 
the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee; and
reviewed the business continuity plans in place. 
The committee met privately with the auditors in the course 
of each meeting during the period.
The committee has approved a policy which allows 
employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without 
fear of discrimination.
The committee has also approved a policy that the auditors 
should only be used for non-audit work if they offer 
demonstrably better capability than alternative providers 
and there is no potential conflict with the independence of 
the audit.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
> Governance
Dunelm  Group  plc  Annual report & accounts 2008
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review
The Remuneration  Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, 
the other members are Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny.  
The Chief Executive normally attends by invitation.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are 
available on the Group's website or from the Company 
Secretary.
The committee's responsibilities include:
recommending to the Board the specific pay and 
benefits packages for the Executive Directors, including 
pensions and any compensation payments;
recommending and monitoring the level and structure of 
pay and benefits for senior management; and
implementing any awards made under share incentive 
schemes.
During the year the committee met twice with full 
attendance and:
determined the pay reviews and incentive arrangements 
for Executive Directors; and
approved conditional share awards to be made to Executive 
Directors under the Group's Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Further details of the committee's activities are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on page 14.
The Nominations  Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, 
the other members are Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are 
available on the Group's website or from the Company 
Secretary.
The committee's responsibilities include:
reviewing the composition and balance of the Board;
Board succession planning; and
making recommendations on appointments to the Board 
(including reappointments at AGM).
During the year the committee met three times with full 
attendance. 
Advice and insurance
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. In addition Directors may seek legal 
advice at the Group's cost if they consider it necessary in 
connection with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors' and Officers' Liability 
insurance cover for its Directors.
 
Training
Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a 
comprehensive induction programme with visits to key sites 
and meetings with senior managers and other staff members.
Throughout the year all Directors have maintained a regular 
series of visits to stores and meetings with members of the 
senior management team. The Board has also received 
presentations from independent advisers on financial policy 
and on retail sector trends.
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
Evaluation
The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief 
Executive with regard to personal objectives agreed at the 
start of each financial year. The Chief Executive similarly 
appraises the performance of the Finance Director.
There is a well established process for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman, the other Non-Executive 
Directors, the Board Committees and the Board as a whole. 
This takes the form of a Board meeting convened solely for 
the purpose of such review. During the course of this 
meeting there is the opportunity for the Chairman or other 
individual Directors to be asked to leave the discussion whilst 
their performance is assessed.
Risk management and internal control
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this 
Annual Report there has been in place an established, 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by the Group which has been 
regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board 
and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal 
Control for Directors on the Combined Code (revised 
October 2005).
A register of strategic and operational risks is maintained 
and reviewed quarterly by the Board, who also monitor the 
status of agreed actions to mitigate key risks.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material loss and misstatement.
The Group maintains a well established control framework 
comprising clear structures and accountabilities, well 
understood policies and procedures and budgeting and 
review processes. 
Each store manager has clear responsibilities and operates 
within defined policies and procedures covering such areas 
as financial targets, human resources management, 
customer service, health and safety etc. The Executive 
Directors monitor compliance with these policies and 
procedures in the course of regular reviews.
Investor relations
There is a formal investor relations programme based 
around results presentations and trading statements. In 
addition analyst/shareholder visits are arranged. All of the 
Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings at 
shareholder request. The Chairman and Executive Directors 
feed back any investor comments to the Board.
All Directors will be available at the AGM to meet with 
shareholders and answer their questions.