 e-Therapeutics Annual Report 2008   21 e-Therapeutics Annual Report 2008   21
Corporate Governance
The company is committed to maintaining high standards in  
corporate governance. 
Board of directors
The company has a board of four directors, one of whom is non-executive. 
The board intends to appoint an additional non-executive director as soon 
as practicable. The board is responsible to shareholders for the effective 
stewardship of the company's affairs and has a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for its decision which include:
consideration of long-term strategic issues;  	
financial and budgeting decisions and control;  	
ensuring the company's compliance with good practice in corporate  	
governance matters.
A brief biographical summary of each director is given on page 16.
The chairman is responsible for organising the business of the board,  
ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and has no involvement 
in the day-to-day business of the company. He facilitates the effective 
contribution of the directors and ensures that they receive accurate, 
timely and clear information and that they communicate effectively  
with shareholders. 
The company secretary has administrative responsibility for the  
meetings of the board and its committees and is responsible for advising 
the board through the chairman on all governance matters. All of the 
directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.  
Directors may also take independent professional advice at the company's 
expense where necessary in the performance of their duties.
The company's articles of association and the schedule of matters 
reserved to the board for decision provide that the appointment and 
removal of the company secretary is a matter for the full board.
Independence of directors
The board currently comprises the chairman, who is an independent 
non-executive director, and three executive directors. The independent 
non-executive director, O F W James, constructively challenges and helps 
develop proposals on strategy and brings strong, independent judgement, 
knowledge, and experience to the board's deliberations. The independent 
director is of sufficient calibre that his views carry significant weight in the 
board's decision making.
The board considers O F W James to be independent in character and 
judgement and he:
 has not been an employee of the group within the last five years;  	
 has not, or has not had within the last three years, a material business  	
relationship with the group;
 has not received remuneration other than a director's fee and the  	
options awarded to him upon flotation;
 has no close family ties with any of the group's advisers, directors or  	
senior employees;
 does not hold cross-directorships or have significant links with other  	
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
 does not represent a significant shareholder.  	
Professional development
On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme 
where they receive information about the group, the role of the board 
and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and 
membership of the principal board and management committees, 
the powers delegated to those committees, the group's corporate 
governance practices and procedures, including the powers reserved to 
the group's most senior executives, and the latest financial information 
about the group. This is supplemented by meetings with other key  
senior executives.
Throughout their period in office the directors are continually updated 
on the group's business, the competitive and regulatory environments 
in which it operates, corporate social responsibility matters and other 
changes affecting the group and the industry it operates in as a whole,  
by written briefings and meetings with senior executives. Directors are also 
advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations 
as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in face-to-face 
meetings with the company secretary. They are reminded of these 
duties each year and they are also updated on changes to the legal and 
governance requirements of the group and upon themselves as directors.
Re-election
In accordance with the articles of association, one-third of directors retire 
by rotation each year. All newly appointed directors are also subject  
to re-election. Each director must be subject to re-election at least every 
three years.
Board committees
The board has appointed two standing committees to make 
recommendations to the board in specific areas, as follows.
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises the chairman and chief executive.  
At present, the company has only one non-executive director 
and the audit committee membership does not comply with the 
recommendations of the Combined Code. The company is actively 
seeking to appoint additional non-executive directors of the appropriate 
calibre and intends to adjust the membership of the audit committee 
once the requisite appointments have been made.
The audit committee's terms of reference include the following roles  
and responsibilities:
reviewing and making recommendations to the board in relation  	
to the company's published financial statements and other formal 
announcements relating to the company's financial performance;
reviewing and making recommendations to the board in relation to  	
the group's internal control (including internal financial control) and 
risk management systems;
periodically considering the need for an internal audit function;  	
making recommendations to the board in relation to the  	
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors 
and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
external auditors;
reviewing and monitoring the external auditors' independence and  	
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
monitoring the extent to which the external auditors are engaged to  	
supply non-audit services; and
ensuring that arrangements are in place for the investigation and  	
follow-up of any concerns raised confidentially by staff in relation to 
the propriety of financial reporting or other matters. 22 e-Therapeutics Annual Report 2008
The terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on request 
from the company secretary. The audit committee meets at least twice 
per year and has direct access to KPMG Audit Plc, the company's external 
auditors. The board considers that the member of the committee is 
independent non-executive.
The company does not have an independent internal audit function as it is 
not deemed appropriate given the size of the company and the nature of 
the company's business.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises O F W James, the only  
non-executive director, and J M Cordiner. The remuneration committee 
membership does not comply with the recommendations of the 
Combined Code. The company is actively seeking to appoint additional 
non-executive directors of the appropriate calibre and intends to adjust 
the membership of the remuneration committee once the requisite 
appointments have been made.
The sole non-executive director, O F W James, and J M Cordiner act as  
the remuneration committee, which is responsible for approving:
 the remuneration of the executive directors, having regard to   	
their performance;
 details of service contracts, pension arrangements and other terms  	
and conditions on which executive directors are employed;
 incentive bonus schemes and the allocation of share options   	
and other long-term incentives to executive directors and  
other employees.
The committee normally meets twice a year to consider all aspects 
of remuneration of the executive directors. The committee is directly 
accountable to shareholders. As chairman of the committee,  
O F W James will be available at the annual general meeting to  
answer questions about the remuneration of executive directors.
Investor relations
The board recognises the value of maintaining regular communications 
with shareholders. Formal reports are sent to shareholders following 
the year-end and an opportunity is given at the annual general meeting 
to question the board. Proxy voting figures for each resolution are 
announced at the annual general meeting. 
Internal controls
The directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that there are  
in place systems of internal control, both financial and non-financial,  
and for reviewing their effectiveness. The purpose of the internal financial 
controls is to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained,  
the company's assets are safeguarded and the financial information used 
within the business and for publication is accurate and reliable; such a 
system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The board regularly reviews financial 
performance and results. 
The directors confirm that by means of the procedures set out above, 
and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on  
the Combined Code , published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales, they have established a continuing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant potential risks 
faced by the company and have reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal control systems. This process has been in place throughout  
and subsequent to the accounting period under review.
By order of the board
Professor Oliver James
Chairman  
18 July 2008
Corporate Governance
CONTINUED