 Board of Directors The Chairman is
responsible for the effective running of the
Board of Directors. The Board currently has four
members, comprising the Non-executive
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group
Finance Director and an Executive Director. The
Board has considered the independence of its
Non-executive Chairman, Peter Reynolds, and
after due consideration, has concluded that he
is independent. He does not have any
involvement in the day-to-day management of
the Company or its subsidiaries.
The biographical details of the Board members
are set out on page 11. 
There is a schedule of formal matters specifically
reserved for the full Board's consideration,
including a policy enabling Directors to take
independent professional advice in the
furtherance of their duties at the Company's
expense. The Board programme is designed so
that Directors have a regular opportunity to
consider the Group's strategy, policies, budgets,
progress reports and financial position and to
arrive at a balanced assessment of the Group's
position and prospects. In addition, strategic
developments are on the agenda at each Board
meeting and, where appropriate, the Board
programme also includes a day set aside purely
for strategic review and planning.
The Company has a clear division of
responsibility between the roles of Chairman
and Chief Executive within the business.
The Non-executive Chairman has a responsibility
to ensure that the strategies and policies
proposed by the Executive Directors are fully
discussed and critically examined, not only with
regard to the best long-term interests of
shareholders, but also having regard to the
Company's relationships with its employees,
customers and suppliers. The Board and its
Committees are supplied with information and
papers to ensure that all aspects of the
Company's affairs are reviewed on at least an
annual basis. 
Day-to-day management of the business is
delegated to the Management Team, consisting
of the three Executive Directors and certain
senior managers, which meets monthly. The
Board is dependent on the Management Team
for the provision of accurate, complete and
timely information and the Directors may seek
further information where necessary. The
Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all
Directors are properly briefed on issues arising
at Board meetings.
Under the Company's articles of association,
each year at least one third of the Directors
must retire and submit themselves for re-
election by the shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting. The communication
accompanying the Company's Notice of Annual
General Meeting sets out reasons for the
Board's belief that the individual should be 
re-elected.
Board Committees Certain responsibilities are
delegated to the Remuneration Committee, the
Audit and the Nomination Committees. The
three committees have written terms of
reference, which define their authorities, duties
and membership. The written terms of
reference are available for inspection at the
Company's registered office during normal
business hours on any weekday excluding public
holidays. Details of membership of the
committees are given on page 11. 
The Audit Committee formally met twice during
the period under review, with no absentees.
Adam Moloney, the Group Finance Director,
attends all Audit Committee meetings by
invitation and provides advice to the Committee
where appropriate. The Chief Executive Officer
was invited to and attended both meetings.
The Company's auditors attended both
meetings and the Committee considered reports
issued by them. The auditors have direct access
to the Audit Committee without the presence
of an Executive Director. The Committee reviews
the effectiveness of the Company's internal
financial controls by reference to reports from
the external auditors. The Committee also
reviews the scope and results of the external
audit as well as its cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the
requirement for an internal audit function.  The
Committee has decided that none is necessary
at present. Instead, other monitoring processes
have been applied to provide assurance to the
Board that the system of internal control is
functioning satisfactorily. Internal controls are
discussed under the internal control and risk
management section below.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for
the formal selection process of Executive and
Non-executive Directors. The normal selection
process involves the formulation of a clear job
description and ideal candidate profile, the
appointment of independent recruitment
Corporate Governance
Compliance Statement The Board of Eckoh plc recognises its responsibilities to
maintain high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. The Board
continues to give careful consideration to the principles of corporate governance as set
out in the Combined Code published by the Financial Services Authority, although as a
company listed on AIM it is not required to comply with the Combined Code. The
Company is committed to complying with the Combined Code so far as is practicable
and appropriate for a public company of its size and nature.   
22
T19865 Eckoh Front Section  6/8/08  15:43  Page 22 consultants, if appropriate, and interviews of
suitable candidates by the Committee and one
or more of the Executive Directors. A short-list of
candidates then meets with the remaining
Directors. Following feedback from all Directors,
and after due consideration, the Nomination
Committee recommends the appointment of the
chosen candidate.
The principal objectives of the Remuneration
Committee are to review the performance of the
Executive Directors and make recommendations
to the Board on matters relating to their
remuneration and terms of employment.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Directors formally acknowledge their
responsibility for establishing effective internal
control within the Company. In this context,
control is defined as those policies, processes,
tasks and behaviours established to ensure that
business objectives are achieved most cost
effectively, assets and shareholder value are
safeguarded and laws, regulations and policies
are complied with.
The Board has put in place a system of internal
controls, set within a framework of a clearly
defined organisational structure, with well
understood lines of responsibility, delegation of
authority, accountability, policies and procedures
which is supported by training, budgeting,
reporting and review procedures.
A long-term business plan and an annual
operating budget are prepared by management
and are reviewed and approved by the Board
prior to the commencement of each financial
year. Monthly reporting and analysis of results
against budget, risk assessment and related
internal controls and forecasts are received,
discussed by management and reported to the
Board.
There are ongoing processes for identifying,
evaluating and managing the Company's
significant risks and related internal controls
which are integrated into the Company's
operations. Such processes are reported to, 
and reviewed by, the Board at each meeting.
These processes have identified the risks most
important to the Company (business,
operational, financial and compliance),
determined the financial implications, and
assessed the adequacy and effectiveness of 
their control. The reporting and review processes
provide routine assurance to the Board as to 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
internal controls. 
Shareholder Relations The Company holds
meetings with its major institutional investors
and general presentations are given covering the
interim and preliminary results. The Chairman,
Peter Reynolds met with shareholders and
brokers during the period under review. The
Chairman is available to attend presentation
meetings and other presentations on an ongoing
basis. All Directors have access to the Company's
nominated advisors who give feedback from
shareholders and receive copies of broker update
documents.
All shareholders have the opportunity to raise
questions at the Company's Annual General
Meeting, or leave written questions, which will
be answered in writing as soon as possible. At
the meeting the Chairman will give a statement
on the Group's performance during the year,
together with a statement on current trading
conditions. 
In addition to regular financial reporting,
significant matters relating to the trading or
development of the business are disseminated to
the market by way of Stock Exchange
announcements. The Company's Annual Report
and Accounts, Interim Statements and other
major announcements are published on the
Company's corporate web site at
www.eckoh.com.
Going Concern Under company law, the
Company's Directors are required to consider
whether it is appropriate to prepare financial
statements on the basis that the Company and
the Group are going concerns. As part of its
normal business practice the Group prepares
annual and longer term plans and, in reviewing
this information, the Company's Directors are
satisfied that the Group and the Company have
reasonable resources to enable them to continue
in business for the foreseeable future. For this
reason the Company and the Group continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
23
T19865 Eckoh Front Section  6/8/08  15:43  Page 23