 ELECTRIC W ORD plc
          39 Annual Report 30 November 2009
Corporate Governance Statement
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the Principles of Good 
Governance and Code of Best Practice as set out in Section 1 of the Revised Combined Code. The directors 
support the principles underlying the requirements insofar as is appropriate for a company the size of Electric 
Word plc.
the Board and its committees
Board meetings are scheduled to take place once a quarter and there is contact between meetings as required. The 
meetings are held to set and monitor strategy, review trading performance, guide business development, examine 
acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders. In addition, the Board approves the annual forecast 
and any re-forecasts. Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the 
Board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties including monthly Board papers with commentary, 
divisional results and key performance indicators.
Details of directors who served during the year are set out in the directors' report. The Board is now comprised 
of three Executive and two Non-Executive directors. Each year one third of the Board are subject to re-election 
by rotation.
The Board has separate roles for Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Board has established an Audit Committee, which comprises the non-executive Chairman Peter Rigby and 
Stephen Routledge. The Audit Committee meets once a year. It is responsible for meeting the auditor, reviewing 
the annual report and accounts before their submission to the Board ensuring that the financial performance 
of the Company is properly reported on and monitored, reviewing the recommendations of the auditor on 
accounting policies, internal control and other findings of the audit and making recommendations to the Board 
on the scope of the audit and the appointment of the auditor. The Audit Committee keep the independence 
and objectivity of the auditor under review and a formal statement of independence is received from the external 
auditor each year.
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee, which comprises the non-executive Chairman Peter 
Rigby and Stephen Routledge. The remuneration committee meets once a year and reviews the performance of 
the executive directors and the scale and structure of their remuneration having due regard to the interests of the 
shareholders. The Committee also approves the granting of share options.
The Board has not established a Nomination Committee as it regards the approval and appointment of directors 
(whether executive or non-executive) as a matter for consideration by the whole Board.
Statement on corporate social responsibility
Electric Word has a strong sense of social responsibility. We view editorial integrity and independence 
as fundamental qualities of the information we provide. We value a diverse workforce in which people are 
encouraged to fulfil their potential, and a workplace culture that promotes fairness, rationality, responsibility and 
the support of personal development. Employee participation in the direction and management of the company 
is encouraged by regular consultation and a major annual review of employee engagement. 
Since its inception, Electric Word has always seen itself as part of a broader community. The Company encourages 
broader community participation by its employees (for example our staff includes two school governors). We offer 
time off to facilitate such involvement and support with other resources where appropriate, we run an annual 
internship programme for enterprise education and run a company charity fund which makes quarterly donations 
determined by employees. We continue to look for ways that the Company and its staff can contribute to the 
community, particularly when these reflect our principal business activities in the education and sports sectors. Annual Report 30 November 2009
40     ELECTRIC W ORD plc
Communication with shareholders
The Board encourages regular dialogue with shareholders. All shareholders are invited to the AGM at which 
directors are available for questioning. The notice of AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 21 working days 
before the meeting. The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution is disclosed at the AGM 
and a separate resolution is proposed on each item. Financial and other information about the Company is 
available on the Company's website (www.electricwordplc.com).
Internal control
The directors are responsible for the Group's systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and 
can only provide the directors with reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The key procedures that have been established and which are designed to provide effective internal control are 
as follows:
   Management structure - Each of the Group's divisions are managed by a senior executive who sits on a 
Management Board that meets weekly and includes the executive directors. The Executive Board meets once 
a quarter. 
  Financial reporting - An annual forecast is prepared by the executive directors and is reviewed by the whole 
Board. Performance against forecast is monitored monthly down to the level of individual profit centres.
  Internal audit - The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and has concluded that the 
Group is not large enough to warrant a full time internal auditor.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and the control environment and carries 
out an annual detailed review. The most recent detailed review of the major business risks was carried out in 
December 2009 and the necessary measures to mitigate those risks as far as possible are instigated and regularly 
monitored by the Management Board. No significant control deficiencies were reported then or during the year 
in the Group's standard controls. These controls are applied to acquisitions as soon as is feasibly possible and the 
acquisitions are brought up to the Group's standards where they are found to be weaker. The review is currently 
being updated to confirm that no additional measures are now required. No weaknesses in internal controls have 
resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainty which would require disclosure as recommended by 
the guidance for directors on reporting on internal controls.
The Group's portfolio across both market sectors is believed to be robust with risk limited. The product range 
is varied but all are aimed at niche markets with the intention that it is  must have' information. There is no 
reliance on particular customers with the base being made up of many of lower value. The Group continues its 
key approach of analysing all investments' returns and has management accounts down to product level. This 
practice is intended to prevent overspend without due benefit and foretell where product life is ending so that 
appropriate actions can be taken.
The Group has a key core of employees with strong market and product knowledge but has always sought to 
position itself as not reliant on individuals but ensuring that the knowledge and responsibilities are shared. There 
is exposure to interest rate movements in the Group as detailed in note 19, but at present and with the levels 
of debt involved it is felt appropriate that no instruments are required to mitigate this but with the situation 
continually reviewed. There is a limited exposure to foreign currency rate volatility, notably on the US dollar 
but this is matched as far as possible with natural hedges in having various receivables and payables in the same 
currency. The extent of the net gains and losses in this area is given in note 9.
Corporate Governanace Statement (continued) ELECTRIC W ORD plc
          41 Annual Report 30 November 2009
Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and a commitment 
to management and business skills training. High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control 
environment and the high ethical standards expected are communicated by management leadership and through 
the employee handbook provided to all employees.
Disabled persons
The group will employ disabled persons where they appear to be suitable for a particular vacancy and every 
effort is made to ensure that they are given full and fair consideration when such vacancies arise. The number of 
disabled persons employed by the Group was nil (2008: nil).
health and safety
It is the objective of the Group to ensure the health and safety of its employees and of any other persons who 
could be affected by its operations. It is the Group's policy to provide working environments which are safe and 
without risk to health and provide information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure the health and 
safety of its employees.
Investment appraisal
The Board approves proposals for the acquisition of new businesses and sets guidelines for the launch of new 
products. Capital expenditure is regulated by strict authorisation controls. Depending on the level of expenditure, 
detailed written proposals must be submitted either to the Board or the Management Board and reviews carried 
out to monitor progress against budget.
Going concern
Having made appropriate enquiries and having examined the major areas which could affect the Group's 
financial position, the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.