 Annual Report 2013
Electric Word PLC
32  |  Annual Report  |  30 November 2013
Corporate Governance Statement
The policy of the Board, recognising that it is accountable to the Company's shareholders to uphold good corporate 
governance, is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles outlined in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (Code ) as published in June 2010, as well as compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Listing 
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.  The Directors support the principles underlying the requirements 
insofar as is appropriate for a company the size of Electric Word plc.  The statement below sets out how the principles 
of the Code are applied and the extent of compliance with the relevant provisions.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
Board meetings take place monthly and there is contact between meetings as required.  The meetings are held to set 
and monitor strategy, review trading performance and financing, guide business development, examine investment and 
acquisition possibilities, and approve reports to shareholders.  In addition, the Board approves the annual forecast and 
any re-forecasts.  Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the Board in a 
timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties including a monthly Board report with commentary, divisional results and 
key performance indicators to the end of the previous month.  Board and Committee papers are circulated in advance 
of each meeting together with the agenda.
Details of the Directors who served during the year are set out in the Directors' report.  During 2013, the Board 
comprised two Executive and two Non-Executive Directors and on 1 January 2014, a third Non-Executive Director was 
appointed.  Each year one third of the Board, rounded down to the nearest whole number, are subject to re-election 
by rotation and including those for whom the Annual General Meeting falls closest to the third anniversary of their 
appointment or their last re-election.
The Board has separate roles for Chairman and Chief Executive and the Chairman is a Non-Executive.
The Board has an established Audit Committee, which comprises two Non-Executive Directors.  The Audit Committee 
meets at least once a year.  It is responsible for meeting the auditor, reviewing the annual report and accounts before 
their submission to the Board, ensuring that the financial performance of the Company is properly reported on and 
monitored, reviewing the recommendations of the auditor on accounting policies, internal control and other findings 
of the audit, and making recommendations to the Board on the scope of the audit and the appointment of the auditor.  
The Audit Committee keeps the independence and objectivity of the auditor under review and a formal statement of 
independence is received from the external auditor each year .
The Board has an established Remuneration Committee, which comprises two Non-Executive Directors.  The 
Remuneration Committee meets once a year and reviews the performance of the Executive Directors and the scale and 
structure of their remuneration having due regard to the interests of the shareholders.  The Committee also approves 
the granting of share options.
The Board has not established a Nomination Committee as it regards the approval and appointment of Directors 
(whether Executive or Non-Executive) as a matter for consideration by the whole Board.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board encourages regular dialogue with shareholders and any feedback received from investors is shared with the 
whole of the Board.  All shareholders are invited to the AGM at which Directors are available for questioning, both during 
the formal meeting and before and after for individual discussion.  The notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders 
at least 21 working days before the meeting.  The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution is 
disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed on each item.  Financial and other information about the  For the year ended 30 November 2013
Electric Word PLC
33
Company is available on the Company's website (www.electricwordplc.com).  Financial results are announced twice 
each year together with comprehensive trading information by Division and this is presented by the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Finance Director in face to face meetings (or by call if necessary) with institutional investors, analysts 
and the media as requested.  The Company intends to make a summary of these presentations available in future on 
the Company's website.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  However, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can 
only provide the Directors with reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.  The key 
principle here is that the cost of control should not exceed the potential benefits.
It is a continuous process to review the risks and consider the necessary controls.  The key procedures that have been 
established and are currently in place with the intention of providing effective internal control are as follows:
 y Management structure - Each of the Group's divisions are managed by a senior executive who attends a 
weekly meeting of operating managers that also includes the Executive Directors and senior functional leaders.  
 y Business planning - Three year budgets and business plans are prepared annually down to individual profit 
centre level (individual publishing titles, website, digital products or revenue types within a market sector) and 
performance is then monitored against those together with any reforecasts prepared through the course of the 
year to reflect significant change.  A consolidation of those is reviewed by the Board and formally approved.
 y Financial reporting - Performance against budget is monitored monthly down to the level of individual profit 
centres.  Reporting each month includes detailed income statements and cash receipts by profit centre, allowing 
analysis of revenue, gross margin, and adjusted EBITA margin, together with key performance indicators such as 
headcount and staff cost, capital expenditure and cash receipts.  At a Group level, reporting includes consolidated 
and divisional results against forecast and prior year with commentary on significant variances, trend analysis 
of revenue, gross profit and adjusted EBITA, full balance sheet, aged debt and creditor analysis, deferred revenue 
analysis, 12 month rolling cash flow forecasts and look forward statements against the Bank loan's covenant  testing.
 y Internal audit - The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and has concluded that the 
Group is not large enough to warrant a full time internal auditor.  This function is covered by Management 
and Finance department reviews of the reporting and periodic Operating management reviews of other profit 
centres' strategy and results at the weekly meetings.
 y Group authority framework  - there are clear guidelines maintained as to approval limits for both operational 
and capital expenditure, and higher value amounts and other key decisions are taken to meetings of the Board 
for review.
 
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and the control environment and carries out a 
detailed annual review.  The most recent detailed review of the major business risks was carried out in November 2013 
and the necessary measures to mitigate those risks as far as possible are instigated and regularly monitored by the 
Management Board.  No significant control deficiencies were reported then or during the year in the Group's standard 
controls.  These controls are applied to acquisitions as soon as is feasibly possible and the acquisitions are brought up 
to the Group's standards where they are found to be weaker .  No weaknesses in internal controls have resulted in any 
material losses, contingencies or uncertainty which would require disclosure as recommended by the guidance for 
Directors on reporting on internal controls.
Reporting
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a true and balanced assessment of the Group's position and prospects.  
The statement of Directors' responsibilities is on page 37 and the disclosure of information to the auditors is set out 
within the Directors' report on page 30. Annual Report 2013
Electric Word PLC
34  |  Annual Report  |  30 November 2013
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
This Annual Report contains an assessment of the business and its prospects in the Chief Executive's statement, 
including a review of the strategy and direction of the Group.
The Directors carefully assess the Group's ability to trade through their regular meetings and have done so at this year 
end.  It is the Directors' view that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future.
Investment appraisal
The Board approves proposals for the acquisition of new businesses and sets guidelines for the launch of new products.  
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict authorisation controls.  Depending on the level of expenditure, detailed written 
proposals must be submitted either to the Board or the Management Board and reviews carried out to monitor progress 
against budget.