 Page   6
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
 
 
The directors acknowledge the importance of the Principles set out in The Combined Code 
issued by the Committee on Corporate Governance.  Although not required to make these 
disclosures, the directors set out below how these principles have been applied during the year. 
 
The Board of Directors 
 
At 30 June 2004 the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, and 
a non-executive Director.  Following the disposal of the independent financial advisory business, 
the executive director resigned on 16 April 2004 and the Board then comprised a non-executive 
Chairman and one further non-executive Director.  Since the year end the Board comprises a 
non-executive chairman, an executive director and two further non-executive directors.  The 
Board will always include non-executive directors of sufficient calibre and number to bring 
independent judgement on the key issues facing the Group. 
 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year to review performance against pre-agreed 
budgets.  The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision 
covering overall strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of budgets and major 
capital expenditure projects and general treasury and risk management policies.  To enable the 
Board to discharge its duties, all directors have full access to all relevant information and to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary.  The appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.  In addition, the directors may take independent 
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense. 
 
A nominations committee is not considered appropriate because of the small size of the Board 
but all appointments or potential appointments are fully discussed by all Board members.  All 
new directors and senior employees are given a comprehensive introduction to the Group's 
business, including meetings with senior management.  Any training necessary will be provided 
at the Company's expense. 
 
Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at Annual General Meetings.  The 
Articles of Association provide that directors will be subject to re-election at the first opportunity 
after their appointment and the Board will voluntarily submit to re-election at intervals of three 
years. 
 
Audit Committee 
 
The Audit Committee now consists of the non-executive chairman, John Hand and, non-
executive director, Vince Nicholls.  Meetings are also attended by relevant Executive Directors 
on invitation.  The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and considers the appointment 
and fees of the external auditors and discusses the scope of the audit and its findings.  The 
Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with accounting and legal requirements 
and for reviewing the annual and interim financial statements prior to their submission for 
approval by the Board.  Page   7
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
(Continued) 
 
 
Remuneration Committee 
 
The Remuneration Committee now comprises the non-executive chairman, John Hand.  The 
Committee's role is to consider and approve the remuneration and benefits of the Executive 
Directors.  In framing the Company's remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has 
given full consideration to Section B of The Combined Code.  The Report on Directors' 
Remuneration is set out on pages 10 to 12. 
 
Internal Control 
 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control operating throughout the 
group and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
 
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss.  The Group's systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure, to 
achieve business objectives and to provide the board with reasonable assurance that potential 
problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate 
action. 
 
The company has had procedures in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of 
this annual report, which accord with the internal Control Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code published in September 1999. 
 
The Board has delegated the detailed design of the system of internal control to the executive 
directors. 
 
The control framework and key procedures are as follows: 
 
  The executive directors meet regularly together, to consider group financial performance, 
business development and group management issues.  The directors and officers of the 
group's investments comprise executives with appropriate functional responsibilities.  
Directors of the operating businesses meet regularly to manage these businesses. 
 
  The group board establishes corporate strategy and group business objectives.  Operations 
management must integrate such objectives into divisional business strategies for 
presentation to the group board with supporting financial objectives. 
 
  There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the group.  Major business risks and their financial implications are appraised by 
the responsible executives and endorsed by operations management.  This is an integral part 
of the strategic planning process.  The appropriateness of controls is considered by the 
executives, having regard to cost/benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.  
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are considered at each regular board meeting 
and are formally reviewed and approved by the group board annually. 
 
  Page   8
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
(Continued) 
 
 
Internal Control (continued) 
 
  The group budget is approved by the board. 
 
  Reports on group and investment performances are regularly provided to directors and 
discussed at group board meetings.  Performance against both budgets and objectives 
together with management of business risks are reviewed with operations management, as 
are forecasts and material sensitivities.  The board regularly receives reports from key 
executives and its investments covering areas such as forecasts, business development, 
strategic planning, legal and corporate matters. 
 
  There is a group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval of investment expenditure 
and asset disposals.  Post investment performance reviews are undertaken. 
 
  Clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate delegated authorities for executives 
are in place throughout the group. 
 
Relations with Shareholders 
 
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.  There is a regular dialogue with 
shareholders including presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement of the year 
end results and at the half year. 
 
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional 
investors and welcomes their participation. 
 
Established procedures ensure the timely release of share price sensitive information and the 
publication of financial results and regulatory financial statements. 
 
Health and Safety 
 
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at all levels within the Group.  
The Group's health and safety approach is supported by training programmes for the operating 
businesses, Group health and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to promote a high level of 
awareness and commitment. 
 
Statement by Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code 
 
The Board consider that they have complied with the provisions of the Combined Code 
throughout the year ended 30 June 2004 as far as practicable and appropriate for a relatively 
small public company in accordance with the recommendations on corporate governance of the 
City Group for Smaller Companies. 
 
  Page   9
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
(Continued) 
 
 
Directors' Responsibilities for the Financial Statements 
 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of 
the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.  In preparing these financial 
statements, the directors are required to: 
 
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 
  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 
  State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 
 
  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business. 
 
 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.  They are also responsible for 
maintaining sufficient internal controls for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
 
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing these 
financial statements. 
 
Going Concern 
 
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John Hand 
 
 23 December 2004 