 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
COMPLIANCE
From August 2003 to February 2004 the Company had only two non-executive directors. In February 2004 a third
non-executive director was appointed and the composition of the board committees now complies with the
Combined Code recommendations.
In order to conserve cash for exploring and developing the Group's assets the staffing level in the UK head office
has been reduced to the minimum required to operate effectively. The roles of Chief Executive and Chairman are
currently combined and performed by Alastair Beardsall on a part time basis. In accordance with the Code these roles
will be split when the Group's level of activity will support an increase in the number of full time staff.
In relation to Code provision D.2.2 the board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided
that because of the size of the Group it cannot be justified at present. The board reviews this position annually.
Share options have been granted to executive directors, non-executive directors and senior staff to vest on the date
of grant and one year following the date of grant. The vesting of the share options granted is not conditional on
any performance targets or the Company's shares attaining any particular share price.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
At the beginning of 2003 the board of directors comprised three executive directors and three non-executive
directors. On 5 February 2003, Mr P J Viggers resigned as a non-executive director and on 15 August 2003 the
remaining members of the board resigned after the appointment of two new executive directors, Alastair Beardsall
and Edward Grace, and two non-executive directors Fred Ponsonby and Merfyn Roberts.
The board meets formally at least 4 times a year and is responsible for reviewing strategy and acquisition/divestment
opportunities, approval of annual budgets, and determining the financial structure of the Group. The Chairman of
the Board, Alastair Beardsall, maintains regular contact with non-executive directors to review the Group's progress.
In accordance with the Company's Articles all directors are re-elected every three years by rotation with two directors
retiring from office at the Company's Annual General Meeting and may offer themselves for re-election. All five
directors will be required to stand for election at the next AGM.
Members of the board are informed of the Group's business and activities by reports and proposals sent to them in
advance of each board meeting and reports made to them during these meetings by the Chief Executive, the Finance
Director, and the Chief Operating Officer. The board is advised of actions taken by the committees of the board as
well as of significant actions taken by management.
In compliance with the Combined Code Keith Henry is identified as the senior independent non-executive director. 
The board appoints the Company Secretary who is responsible for assuring that board procedures and rules are
applied. All directors have access to the advice and service of the Company Secretary, who is not part of the
executive management of the Group.
Qualification for membership of the board includes a requirement that non-executive directors be free from any
relationship with the executive management of the Group that could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement. In the board's view all non-executive directors fulfil this requirement. 
THE BOARD COMMITTEES
The board delegates specific authorities through four committees.
Executive Committee: The Executive Committee is comprised of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director with
the Chief Operating Officer in attendance. The Executive Committee meets as required to deal with the day to day
running of the Group and has specific powers delegated to it by the board as deemed appropriate. 
EMERALD ENERGY Plc 11 12
Audit Committee: The Audit Committee is comprised of all three non-executive directors solely, meets at least twice
a year and is chaired by Merfyn Roberts since his appointment, previously by Graeme Elliot. This Committee considers
the audit process and reviews the Group's financial statements prior to submission to the board to ensure that they
represent a true and fair view of the Group's financial position and are prepared in accordance with current
legislation. It reviews the Group's internal control systems and deals with all matters relating to the Group's auditors.
A representative of the auditors usually attends meetings of the Audit Committee. 
Remuneration Committee: The Remuneration Committee is comprised of all three non-executive directors solely and
is chaired by Merfyn Roberts since his appointment, previously by John Silcock. This Committee determines annually
the individual salaries and fees and other terms and conditions of employment for the executive directors and is
responsible for the operation of the Group's share option plan. It has access to professional advice from remuneration
consultants and the Company's employment lawyers. 
Nomination Committee: The Nomination Committee comprises all three non-executive directors. The Chairman of
the Nomination Committee is Fred Ponsonby since his appointment, previously by Graeme Elliot. The Committee is
responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the board, having regard to the balance and structure of
the board. The Committee is able to employ the services of advisers, as it deems necessary. 
RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The directors seek to communicate the objectives of the Group to its private and institutional shareholders by
(a) making a presentation about the business, its performance and future prospects at the Annual General Meeting;
(b) meeting members of the investment community and institutional shareholders regularly to discuss issues and
obtain feedback; (c) ensuring private investors have access to the board at the Annual General Meeting and
(d) maintaining a corporate web site which provides information on the Group including the facility to request press
releases by email.
REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Information is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 18 setting out the details of the
remuneration for each of the executive directors during the year.
REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Articles of Association provide that the board shall determine the remuneration paid to non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company. The remuneration of non-executive directors
is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 18.
Each director receives fees of  12,000 per annum. The independent non-executive directors have been granted share
options as an alternative to receiving an increased level of fees, thus conserving cash for exploring and developing
the Group's assets.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system
of internal control. Internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of a business and manage the
risks but not eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. By its nature, any system of internal control
can only provide reasonable and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year the board regularly reviewed the adequacy of the Group's internal control and risk management
procedures in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code. There is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE - continued
EMERALD ENERGY Plc Under the corporate risk management methodology all major risks relevant to the Group have been identified and
their risk ranking has been estimated.
These processes were in place on 1 January 2002 and were in place up to the date of approval of the accounts and
accord with the Turnbull guidance.
In addition to the internal financial controls outlined below and in the context of the wider aspects of internal control
it is the responsibility of the directors to ensure that environmental controls, health and safety regulations, security
and political risks have all been considered. 
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal financial control. The
key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal financial control, are
as follows:
Management structure - The board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved for decision by the board. Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific
aspects of the Group's affairs.
Corporate accounting - Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate
accounting and authorisation manual, which sets out authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control
procedures.
Quality and integrity of personnel - The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high
recruitment standards and ongoing training.
Budgetary process - There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the board covering capital
expenditure, cash flows, the Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet.
Investment appraisal - The Group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure. These include authority
levels, commitment reporting, annual budgets and detailed appraisal and review procedures. 
Audit Committee - The Audit Committee monitors the controls, which are in force in the Group, and also considers
and determines relevant actions in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. The application of
internal financial control procedures is reviewed during visits to overseas offices by financial staff. The internal financial
control situation is reported to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
control as it operated during the year and reported its conclusions to the board.
By order of the board
G S Cole
Company Secretary
19 March 2004
EMERALD ENERGY Plc 13