 Business & financial overview
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 www.emis-online.com 12
Corporate social responsibility
The company continues to be committed to 
building a sound Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) framework. The EMIS Group Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy covers the key 
areas of:
 - Employees
 - Health and Safety
 - Engagement with the Wider Community
 - Environment
 - Ethical Business Practices
Employees
Staff development and wellbeing are crucial 
to attracting and retaining the right people 
which, in turn, holds the key to the success 
of our business. In 2012, 406 new employees 
were recruited by a variety of means including 
a recruitment open day in Leeds city centre, 
working with local universities and engaging 
with local companies. 
To ensure our employees continue to 
develop their skills, over 70 managers have 
during the year attended a professionally 
presented bespoke Leadership Essentials  
programme. The course content covered 
areas such as effective communication 
and performance coaching. In 2013 work 
will continue to embed these core skills 
into the business and ensure our talented 
staff have the training, skills and support 
needed to drive the business forward.
A comprehensive online induction course is 
undertaken by all employees to gain a wider 
understanding of the business. This initial 
knowledge is further developed by regular 
monthly communications from the MD of 
each subsidiary company and the Chief 
Executive of the Group on the performance 
of the business and market and product 
updates. External technical courses are 
also attended where appropriate. 
There continued to be a wide variety of online 
e-learning solutions available to staff to allow 
them to develop technically and professionally. 
Over 1,700 training sessions and meetings 
were held on line in 2012, an increase 
of 32% on the previous year. 
After 12 months' employment, all UK employees 
can participate in The EMIS Group plc Share 
Incentive Plan (the SIP ). In November 2012, 
through the SIP, the company also made an 
offer of free shares to all employees who had 
been employed by the Group for twelve months 
on 31 August 2012. The number of free shares 
per employee was determined with reference 
to length of service and salary. 78% of those 
eligible took up the offer of the free shares. 
We are committed to developing the right 
working culture and offer a range of employee 
benefits including part-time working, flexible 
hours, a modern office environment, discounted 
gym memberships and travel cards. Work 
has commenced to ensure we meet our 
auto-enrolment requirements in 2013.
Over 70 managers have during the year 
attended a professionally presented bespoke 
 Leadership Essentials' programme.
Highlights
 - Over 1,700 training sessions 
and meetings held online
 - Second employee free share offer
 - Accidents (excluding fleet) reduced 
by 11% in 2012 Business & financial overview
Business & financial overview
Annual report and accounts 2012 EMIS Group plc www.emis-online.com 13
Health and safety
The company is committed to the promotion 
of a positive safety culture and there are well 
established systems and policies in place. 
Mandatory health and safety training was 
provided to all employees, starting on the 
induction course and then targeted as 
appropriate. Overall 342 employees were 
trained in 2012 as part of their induction 
and a further 457 other health and safety 
courses were taken during the year, many 
of them online.
All accidents and incidents are monitored and 
reviewed so that action can be taken where 
necessary. The reporting systems continue to 
be reviewed and improved. This has allowed 
analysis of the most common types of incident 
and the identification of any training requirements. 
Overall accidents (excluding fleet) reduced 
by 11% in 2012.
We have also been working with our insurers 
to reduce the number of minor fleet accidents. 
Online licence checks are performed for 
all company car drivers and a total of 447 
employees have been invited to complete 
a comprehensive online suite of fleet driving 
training and assessment.
We continue to work with an external 
occupational health specialist to ensure 
our employees have a safe and comfortable 
working environment. 
Community engagement
Employees engage in a wide range of 
activities to raise money for local and national 
charities. Some examples of this work are:
 - We entered a Spinathon to raise money 
for the British Paralympics Association.
 - Staff raised money for the Cystic Fibrosis 
Trust in the York 10k Corporate Challenge.
 - Dress down days have raised  2,500 
and supported a wide range of charities.
 - Money was raised for Myeloma UK 
by teams and individuals entering 
the Leeds Half Marathon.
 - Employees took part in Give and Gain Day 
2012, the UK's only national day of employee 
volunteering. The project involved working 
with primary school children setting up a 
tag rugby tournament.
The company also makes a number 
of charitable donations each year.
Employee diversity
Male
Female
68%
32%
For the first time at Egton, we have taken on 
apprentices working in systems support, the 
service centre, procurement and administration. 
All are studying for qualifications.
Staff participating in the Give and Gain day. Neil Laycock speaks to all the managers 
on the Leadership Essentials course.
Employee numbers
2012: 1,236
2011: 972 Business & financial overview
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 www.emis-online.com 14
Corporate social responsibility continued
Community engagement 
continued
The company continues to provide work 
experience, attends graduate recruitment fairs 
and has introduced the Egton apprenticeship 
scheme during the year. The company 
commenced work with Leeds City Council, 
Education Business Partnership, an initiative 
which seeks to reduce youth unemployment. 
In addition the company supported the local 
community from providing resources to being 
a sponsor of a community fun day. Our work 
with schools has ranged from providing 
introductions to the world of work to counting 
paper hats to break a world record.
The company has continued to work with 
Business in the Community (BiTc ) on a 
wide range of activities throughout the year. 
Environment
As a responsible employer, the company is 
committed to the minimisation of waste and the 
reduction of the amount of energy consumed. 
Recycling, in particular of IT equipment, 
is encouraged wherever possible. Any disposal 
of IT waste is carried out in an appropriate 
manner in accordance with the Hazardous 
Waste Directive. Our IT waste disposal partners 
(ISO 14001 accredited) have disposed of over 
37 tonnes of IT waste on our behalf. On average 
146kg of cardboard is disposed of weekly and 
paper recycling has saved the equivalent of 
168 trees. During the year we became a 
member of the BiTc environmental index.
The company promotes a purchasing policy 
that gives preference, as far as practicable, 
to those products and services which cause 
the least harm to the environment. When 
conducting supplier reviews, the company 
ensures that all suppliers adhere, wherever 
possible, to recommended environmental 
policy regulations. The company continues 
to review the impact on the environment of 
business travel and joined the West Yorkshire 
Travel Plan network following the move to 
the new Group head office, Rawdon House, 
during the year. We will continue to work on 
schemes to reduce the impact of travel on 
the environment. The appointment in early 
2013 of a qualified Head of Property, Safety 
and Facilities will enable us to put further 
initiatives in place.
Ethical business practices
All the Group's policies detail the standards 
expected throughout the Group, including 
free and fair competition, the prohibition 
of bribery, honest and fair dealing with 
suppliers and ensuring the welfare of 
workers and employment conditions 
within the supply chain meet or exceed 
internationally recognised standards. 
The Group has a Statement of Ethics 
and Whistleblowing Policy. All employees 
view a training session on the Bribery Act 
as part of their induction programme.
Trees saved in year 
by recycling paper
168
 At EMIS I have the opportunity to work with some remarkably talented people 
  One of the great things about working at EMIS has been the opportunity I have had to  
advance up the ladder 
 I have worked at EMIS for eight years in my current role and no two days are the same 
 I have always found my manager to be friendly and approachable with an open door policy 
When we ask our employees what they 
like about working for EMIS they say:  This section includes our 
corporate governance and 
financial statement sections
As a responsible business,  
we recognise the value of  
effective governance 
In this section
16 Board of Directors
18 Senior management and advisers
19 Corporate governance
23 Directors' report
27  Directors' remuneration report
29 Independent auditor's report
30 Group statement of 
comprehensive income
31 Group and parent company 
balance sheets
32 Group and parent company 
statements of changes in equity
33  Group and parent company 
statements of cash flows
34  Notes to the financial statements
IBC Shareholder information