 EMIS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.EMIS-ONLINE.COM
28
Report of the Audit Committee
The Role of the Audit Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the 
integrity of the financial statements, to review the 
Company's internal control and risk management 
systems and to review the effectiveness of any 
internal audit function.
In addition the Audit Committee makes 
recommendations in relation to the appointment 
and reviews the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor; develops the policy 
on the provision of non-audit services and 
reports to the Board on how it discharges 
its responsibilities. The terms of reference 
are on the Company's website. 
Members
The Audit Committee is chaired by Robin Taylor. 
Robin is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland and was Chief Financial 
Officer of several main market listed companies. 
He is therefore considered by the Board to have 
relevant financial experience. Robin's biography 
is included on page 23.
Other members of the Committee are 
Andy McKeon and the Chairman, Mike O'Leary, 
who was considered independent on his 
appointment as Chairman. The Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior 
representatives of the external auditor attend 
by invitation to ensure that all relevant 
information is available to the Committee. 
Frequency of meetings
There have been three meetings during the 
year which are scheduled around the timetable 
for issue of the interim and full year financial 
statements. The Audit Committee meets in 
March and September to review the work and 
findings of the external auditor and to consider 
the financial statements before publication. 
It also meets prior to the year end to consider 
audit strategy. The Audit Committee reports 
to the Board on a regular basis. The Audit 
Committee meets with the external auditor, 
without management, to discuss matters 
relating to its remit and any issues relating 
to the audit. The Chair of the Audit Committee 
also meets with the external auditor and with 
the Chief Financial Officer regularly outside the 
formal meetings to ensure that any areas for 
discussion are dealt with on a timely basis. 
Review of activity
In discharging its responsibilities as outlined in 
the terms of reference the Committee's activities 
have principally been focused in the areas 
outlined below.
Risk management and internal control
 h Reviewed the Group risk assessment 
process and concluded that it is appropriate 
and operating effectively. The Committee 
considered that the primary business risks 
are being captured and reported to the Board 
and that the risk disclosures in the financial 
statements are appropriate;
 h Reviewed the scope and the audit plan 
for the year-end audits;
 h Considered the effectiveness of internal 
controls and risk management systems. The 
Committee noted that the control environment 
is continuing to develop, as set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report, with internal 
reporting and financial management in 
particular having improved during the year. 
While it recognised that the Group' s internal 
IT systems needed to keep pace with the 
growth in the business, this is understood to 
be a priority for management in the coming 
year and had not materially weakened 
the system of internal control;
 h Reviewed the effectiveness of the current 
compliance with the Bribery Act. There were 
no areas of non-compliance reported to the 
Committee during the year and the Committee 
was satisfied with current procedures, including 
the training on the Bribery Act given to all 
employees as part of the induction process. 
Compliance with the induction training is 
monitored by the Committee;
 h Reviewed the effectiveness of the current 
procedures for the prevention of fraud. There 
were no reported incidents of fraud during the 
year. The Committee reviewed the measures 
in place for the prevention and detection of 
fraud including extensive internal quality 
assurance processes and the system 
of internal financial controls as set out 
in the Corporate Governance Report; 
 h Reviewed the whistleblowing policy to 
ensure arrangements are in place for the 
proportionate and independent investigation 
of such matters. The Committee reviewed 
compliance activity in relation to this policy;
Membership
 h Robin Taylor (Chairman)
 h Andy McKeon
 h Mike O'Leary STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29
 h Considered the need for an internal audit 
function and concluded that it was not 
necessary at this stage of the Company's 
development for the period under review. 
However, it proposed that an internal audit 
function should be established during the 
coming year to reflect the increasing 
complexity and growth of the Group.
External audit and appointment of 
external auditor
 h In line with the revised Code' s recommendations 
on audit tendering, the external audit contract 
was put out to tender in 2013. The Audit 
Committee oversaw the process and ensured 
all tendering firms had access to all necessary 
information and individuals during the tendering 
process. Five firms made tender submissions 
and four were subsequently invited to present 
to the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Chief 
Financial Officer and Group financial controller. 
Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP , the Group' s previous 
external auditor, did not make a tender 
submission. KPMG LLP were selected 
and appointed on 3 July 2013. Following 
appointment they conducted an assessment 
of the inherent risks impacting the financial 
report and their findings were presented 
to the Committee in the proposed audit 
strategy for the year ending 2013. 
 h Reviewed the formal engagement terms, 
performance, objectivity and independence 
of the auditor, including the extent of non-audit 
work undertaken. The Committee received a 
formal letter of independence from the external 
auditor. The Committee considers any material 
non-audit related work carried out by KPMG, 
the Group' s external auditor, and mandates the 
engagement of other external advisers where 
it considers that a conflict may be perceived 
to arise. During the year non-audit services 
obtained from the external auditor included 
a significant due diligence assignment in 
connection with the Ascribe acquisition. In 
selecting an external adviser for this work, 
the Audit Committee considered that, of the 
options available, KPMG' s due diligence team 
had the best experience for this assignment 
and that the integrity of the audit would not 
be compromised. The auditor' s remuneration 
for audit and other services is set out in note 7 
to the financial statements.
Externally published information
 h Review of the full year 2012 and 2013 
results including the annual report and 
accounts, preliminary results statement 
and the report from the external auditor;
 h Review of the 2013 interim results statement;
 h Consideration of the appropriateness of 
accounting policies and the critical accounting 
estimates and judgements. To do this the 
Committee considered information provided 
by the Chief Financial Officer and reports from 
the external auditor setting out their views on 
the accounting treatments and judgements 
in the financial statements; 
 h Undertaken a review of the going concern 
assumption when considering the issue of 
preliminary and interim statements, including 
considering internal financial projections, 
sensitivities and reports from the 
external auditor.
Effectiveness review
 h Conducted a review of the effectiveness 
of the Committee;
 h Assessed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process, by reviewing amongst other 
things, whether the auditor has met the 
agreed audit plan and considering the 
robustness and perceptiveness of the 
auditor in its handling of key accounting 
and audit judgements identified. 
2013 financial statements
In finalising the 2013 financial statements, 
the significant judgements considered by the 
Committee and discussed with the external 
auditor were as follows:
Acquisition accounting
The Committee reviewed the key assumptions 
made in accounting for the acquisitions completed 
during the year. This included a review of:
 h the methodology for valuing and determining 
useful lives for the intangible assets identified, 
which was facilitated by the report of an 
external expert;
 h accounting policy alignments, fair 
value determination and the treatment of 
consideration, in particular of contingent 
consideration, where the Committee 
concluded that the treatment was 
consistent with its knowledge of 
expected business performance;
 h disclosure of the acquisitions in the 
financial statements.
The Committee discussed the outcomes 
with the external auditor and concluded that 
the acquisition accounting was appropriate.
Revenue recognition
The Audit Committee considered the Group's 
revenue recognition policies in the context of the 
added complexity following the acquisitions in 
the second half of the year. It concluded that the 
Group's existing approach remained appropriate 
and that this was adequately explained in an 
updated and expanded revenue recognition 
accounting policy note, consistent with the 
requirements of IAS18. The external auditor 
performed substantive analytical testing 
in this area and reported their findings 
to the Committee.
Development costs
The process to capture capitalised development 
costs was reviewed. It was noted that while 
the current approach was considered to be 
adequate, it was anticipated that internal IT system 
enhancements would facilitate an improvement 
in internal reporting in this area during the coming 
year. Balances carried forward in respect of 
development costs were considered for possible 
impairment and the Committee concluded that 
the carrying values and amortisation periods 
were appropriate. The accounting policy for 
development costs was updated to take 
account of the acquisitions during the year.
Significant contract renegotiation and 
going concern
The Committee considered the going concern 
assumption in the context of a significant contract 
renegotiation taking place at the time of the 
completion of the year end accounts (GPSoC-R). 
Given the status of the negotiations and the 
Group's financial position and projections, the 
Committee considered that it was appropriate 
to continue to apply the going concern basis.
External audit appointment and 
re-appointment of Auditor
The Committee has recommended to the Board 
that a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as external 
auditor be put to the shareholders at the AGM. 