 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2013  40
Role and composition of the Audit Committee
The role and terms of reference for the Audit Committee includes all matters indicated in the 2012 Code and can be found on 
the Company's website (www.empresaria.com).
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action 
or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, with a 
minimum requirement of two such Directors, one of whom should be a financially qualified member. Appointments to the 
committee are made by the Board and are for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for further periods of 
up to three years, provided the director still meets the criteria for membership of the committee.The members of the Audit 
Committee are:
Name Date of appointment to the Committee Qualification
Zach Miles (Chairman) 1 October 2008 Chartered accountant
Penny Freer 2 November 2011
Zach Miles's biography can be found on page 29. It is the Board's position that both Zach Miles and Penny Freer continue to 
be independent. 
Meetings
The Audit Committee is required to meet formally twice per year. During 2013 the following formal meetings were held:
Meeting Main purpose Additional attendees
January 2012 audit planning follow up meeting External auditor
Group Finance Director
March 2012 financial statements - review of judgemental areas
2012 audit - review of progress
External auditor
Group Finance Director
March 2012 audit report from the external auditor - review
External auditor - review of performance and recommendation on re-appointment
External auditor 
Group Finance Director
July Risk management and internal control systems
Audit tender process
Group Finance Director
November 2013 financial statements - review of judgemental areas Group Finance Director
December 2013 audit planning External auditor
Group Finance Director
Since the beginning of 2014 to the date of this report the Audit Committee has met twice to fulfil its responsibilities relating 
to the 2013 audit process.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director and senior representatives of the external auditor to attend all of its 
meetings, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw from the meeting.
Audit Committee  
report Governance 41
Principal activities since the beginning of 2013 to the date of this report
Activity Action
Financial reporting Reviewed 2012 and 2013 financial statements
Reviewed 2013 interim statement (unaudited)
Internal controls and risk  
management systems
Reviewed reports on control reviews conducted covering financial, operational and 
compliance controls
Reviewed the risk strategy and implementation of risk management processes
External audit Managed the relationship with the external auditor relating to the 2012 and 2013 audits
Completed an external audit tender process
Reporting responsibilities Reported to the Board following each meeting
Compiled the 2012 and 2013 Audit Committee reports for inclusion in the Annual Reports
Other matters Completed a performance evaluation
Updated Terms of Reference
Financial reporting
The reviews of the financial statements included the accounting policies, significant financial reporting issues and  
key judgements and estimates underpinning the financial statements, including:
  going concern;
  carrying value of goodwill and investments; 
  provisions relating to restructuring costs and claims for potential retrospective pay and social security; and
  deferred tax assets value; 
as disclosed within notes 2 and 3. 
For going concern and the carrying value of goodwill and investments, the Committee examined the assumptions supporting 
the Group's profit and cash flow forecasts and the sensitivities applied to those forecasts, the banking facilities available and 
the assessment of the Group's covenant compliance based on the forecasts. In preparing the forecasts growth rates were 
based on the GDP for the countries in which the Group operates except, for the purpose of determining the carrying value 
of goodwill and investments, growth rates were capped at 3%. Sensitivities applied included both increasing and reducing 
forecast revenues, with corresponding adjustments to cost of sales, reducing gross margin, increasing debtor days and for 
goodwill, increasing the cost of capital and the effect of nil growth. In each case the Group had sufficient headroom under 
its banking facilities, banking covenants were complied with and no goodwill impairment was indicated. Further details are 
included in notes 1 and 14 to the financial statements.
For the other key judgements and estimates, the Committee was satisfied with the assumptions made and the accounting 
treatments adopted.
Internal controls and risk management systems
Risk management is the responsibility of the Board of Directors. The Committee's responsibility is to keep under review the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems.
During 2013 the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Group's risk management policy, framework and register. 
Actions have been agreed for each risk identified, with progress against those actions being monitored at a specific meeting 
held to discuss risk management and internal control systems.
Subsidiaries are required to complete risk registers for their businesses and monitor progress against the actions in line with 
the risk management policy. 
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect business operations can be found in the Strategic report on 
pages 14 to 15. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2013  42
Due to the size of the Group, and the costs involved, the Audit Committee continues to recommend to the Board that there is 
no requirement for an internal audit function. Internal control review processes are reviewed by the Committee and managed 
by the Group Finance Director assisted by the regional financial controllers. 
The Group's whistle blowing policy contains arrangements for the Group Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, 
complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters. 
The Group has a mandatory Code of Conduct which sets out the minimum expected behaviours for all employees. 
External auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Group's policy on external 
audit. The terms of reference assigns responsibility to the Committee for overseeing the relationship with the external auditor. 
External audit tender process
The Committee determined that it was appropriate to conduct an external tender process, acknowledging that the 
Company's external auditor, Deloitte LLP, had been first appointed in October 2002.
In October 2013, an invitation to tender for the external audit services to Empresaria Group plc was issued. The four firms 
invited to participate in the tender process were required to submit their proposals against the following criteria:
Area Details
Organisation and experience   benefits of selecting the firm
  organisation structure in relation to the Group
  industry experience and client base
  support to clients provided outside of audit process
Resourcing   the core service team, location and relevant experience
  fit with management team and culture
  time the key team members will commit to this appointment
  succession plans and staff continuity plans
  references for each core team member
Audit approach   understanding of the Group's business, risks and accounting issues
  process and approach for delivering audit services
  scope of audit services
  how audit findings will be reported
  use of technology to deliver audit service
  added value to come from audit process
Transition plans   process for transition from previous auditor 
Quality assurance   internal processes for quality assurance
  approach to resolving accounting and financial reporting issues
Independence and governance   internal practices to ensure compliance with independence requirements  
and freedom from conflicts of interest
  confirmation that the firm will take all necessary steps to ensure its independence
Fees   competitive fee quote for the global audit for 2014 year end
  fee split between Group and subsidiary companies
  list of subsidiaries that will be audited by the firm, other auditors or not at all
  basis for determining fees in future years
  overview of audit schedule and timing of billings
Audit Committee  
report continued Governance 43
The process comprised of the following stages:
  initial meeting with Audit Committee Chairman and Group Finance Director, to discuss the tender process;
  submission of written proposals; and
  presentation to the selection panel, comprising the Audit Committee members and Group Finance Director.
The Committee considered the approach and services of each audit firm and the fees proposed. The Committee concluded 
that Deloitte LLP, the Company's current auditor, was providing a good service currently and offered an improved service 
offering as part of the tender. The Committee concluded that there was no significant difference in quality of service and no 
cost saving from changing auditor and therefore the Committee has recommended that the Board propose to shareholders 
that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as the Company's auditor for the 2014 audit.
Note 7 to the financial statements includes disclosure of the auditor's remuneration for the year, including an analysis of audit 
services, audit related services and other non-audit services under those headings prescribed by law.
Assessment of the Audit Committee
The Committee conducted a self assessment of its performance during the year, against its terms of reference. The Board 
concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and had ensured the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the 
work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Zach Miles
Chairman of the Audit Committee
10 March 2014