 40
 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
REVIEW
The advances we have made in several 
key areas are testimony to the absolute 
priority given to our HSE&A activities 
and our determination to apply extra 
depth and substance to everything we 
do in this area 
John Atkinson Head of Health, Safety,  
Environment and Assurance ( HSE&A')
Health, Safety, Environment & Assurance:  
Delivery mode
It has been a year of continuing progress across  
EnQuest's Health, Safety, Environment and Assurance 
( HSE&A') landscape.
The advances we have made in several key areas are 
testimony to the absolute priority given to our HSE&A 
activities and our determination to apply extra depth and 
substance to everything we do in this area.
The ongoing roll-out of our HSE&A continuous improvement 
plan and launch of a comprehensive audit programme are 
illustrative of our active  delivery mode' during 2013.
Specifically, the introduction of a new incident investigation 
procedure, uniquely devised and developed to reflect 
EnQuest's organisation and operating practices, marked a 
significant step forward. During the year over 100 personnel 
were trained in the procedure. It has been set up to work 
seamlessly with another new feature of the HSE&A 
environment, our bespoke Synergi incident management 
software, to create a system that constitutes a step-change  
in terms of efficiency and effectiveness.
This and other measures, such as the implementation of new 
control of work systems and practices, and the 
standardisation of safety equipment deployed across all our 
operations, represent practical contributions to EnQuest's 
operations excellence programmes.
OVERVIEW
See also EnQuest's annual 
Environmental Reports  
to DECC and its major 
development project 
Environment Statement 
submissions; available  
on both the EnQuest  
and DECC websites. 41
 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
STRATEGIC
REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
For more information visit:  
www.enquest.com
ENQUEST VALUES
RESPECT
Respect is a fundamental value which we must follow if we wish 
to grow our business and achieve our goals, both personally and 
professionally. For me, respect should be the only way in which 
we operate as a business; having respect for safety, personnel, 
the environment and for one another is critical if we want  
to succeed. 
Rosann Middleton
Senior Human Resources Advisor
Within that context, there has been, and remains, a major 
focus upon the control of major accident hazards. A training 
and awareness course undertaken by the leadership team at 
the internationally renowned Spadeadam hazard test facility 
in Cumbria in early 2013 built momentum behind the work 
which has also, critically, involved the introduction of a major 
accident hazard barrier model now being deployed across all 
EnQuest sites. A continuing and increasing focus on the 
prevention of hydrocarbon releases is consistent with the 
industry drive for improvement in this crucial area of major 
accident prevention. 
In the environmental arena, our commitment to meeting our 
obligations is particularly apparent in our compliance with 
the increased disclosure requirements under the Department 
of Energy and Climate Change ( DECC') reporting framework 
(pages 78 and 79). We have proactively focused our 
environmental management arrangements on key areas such 
as produced water discharges and oil and chemical spill 
prevention. A major initiative is underway to identify and 
document all Environmental Critical Elements and to put in 
place measures to ensure the ongoing integrity of such 
equipment. Aside from the operational and environmental 
benefits this should deliver, it also prepares the Company for 
compliance with pending legislative change associated with 
the EU Directive on Safety of Offshore Oil and Gas Operations.
1.36 LTIF
1.36 was EnQuest's LTIF (lost time incident frequency) rate  
for 2013
Evidence of our strong personal safety performance can be 
seen in our lost time incident frequency ( LTIF') rate, which for 
2013 stood at 1.36. The figure, which reflects the number of 
incidents per one million working hours, compares favourably 
with the latest available industry average of 1.89 for 2012.
A series of initiatives has served to ensure health awareness 
and improvements have been a consistent focus of attention 
both offshore and onshore. We have worked to create a 
relationship with our Occupational Health support provider 
that constitutes a value adding partnership. There is now a 
greater framework of systems and support for our offshore 
medics as they perform their everyday duties. More broadly, 
an ongoing programme of health promotion activities has 
featured desk drops on specific health and well-being issues.
Looking ahead, our continual improvement plan for 2014 is  
in place with the focus on four central themes, namely: 
Leadership and Culture; Control of Major Accident Hazards; 
Personal Health and Safety, and Environmental Controls. A 
series of managed activities sits behind each headline theme 
and implementation of the plan will be championed and 
monitored by our senior leadership team.  42
 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
OVERVIEW
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
CONTINUED
Over
 116,000
Total EnQuest funds raised for Archway by the end of 2013
Community: Forging relationships
The principle of sustainability extends beyond our core 
business activities into our community and charity work.
The relationship we have developed with Aberdeen based 
organisation Archway epitomises this approach. Archway 
works to improve the quality of life of children, young people 
and adults with learning disabilities throughout Aberdeen 
and Aberdeenshire. When we nominated Archway as our 
chosen charity in April 2012, we aimed to raise  100,000 on 
its behalf in two years. By the end of 2013, we had already 
raised over  116,000. 
Importantly, however, we have done so by building a 
partnership with the charity from the outset. It is a 
partnership that reflects many of our company values and  
is about much more than providing financial assistance.  
Many people in EnQuest now feel a genuine affinity with the 
organisation. More than that, the variety of fund raising 
activities organised on its behalf has served to enhance the 
spirit of teamwork and collaboration which we believe is a 
fundamental quality of our business.
The fund raising efforts of EnQuest teams and individuals for 
Archway have included a golf tournament which raised over 
 50,000, a 300km cycling challenge over the north-east of 
Scotland's highest roads, and a sponsored climb of the 
highest peaks in Scotland, England and Wales. They have 
also included a musical evening in Aberdeen and many other 
one-off events. EnQuest is raising money for Archway's 
Appeal for Betty's Place, a project to establish a specially 
adapted holiday cottage and specialist facilities for the 
people that the charity supports.
Our other main focus of community activity has been Tullos 
Primary School in Aberdeen. In line with our community 
involvement principles, our long standing support for the 
school has extended beyond financial help, and in 2013 
included active participation by EnQuest personnel in its 
science week activities. 
More broadly, EnQuest's charity committee meets on a 
regular basis to consider individual requests for support  
that meet the criteria set out in our Community and  
Charity Policy.
The variety of fund raising activities 
organised has served to enhance the 
spirit of teamwork and collaboration 
which we believe is a fundamental  
quality of our business 
Three Peaks Challenge on behalf of Archway raised in excess of  2,250. 43
 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
STRATEGIC
REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
For more information visit:  
www.enquest.com
Our people: Expanding our horizons
EnQuest's growth in 2013 was clearly apparent in our 
workforce statistics; a total of 86 employees and 199 
contractors joined us. That took our direct workforce at the 
end of 2013 to approximately 600, an increase of 100 over the 
year. When offshore contractors and shipyard projects are 
included, the overall figure rises to around 1,800. Our 2013 
attrition rate of 9% again compared favourably with the  
wider industry.
Over the course of 2013, as EnQuest added new dimensions 
to its UK operations and extended its geographical presence, 
a great deal of time and resources was directed at embedding 
organisational practices that befit our growing business. 
Our core principles were used to shape our People and 
Organisation strategy, which has provided the backdrop to 
much of our 2013 activity and will continue to do so. The 
strategy, in effect a  road map' to sustainable business 
growth, is founded upon four themes: the right organisation, 
with great people, who deliver exceptional performance, in 
the EnQuest way. We put a series of initiatives and enabling 
events in place over the year to convert those themes into 
practical reality. Those  big moments', across all four themes, 
have served to create a momentum which will carry the work 
forward into 2014 and beyond. 
EnQuest's growth was also evident internationally in the 
development of our Malaysian operations and the creation  
of an EnQuest team in Tunisia following our acquisition of 
interests there. Skills and experience from our UK operations 
have been  exported' to support the establishment of our 
operations in Tunisia. Nevertheless, we have spent time in 
our international locations, telling the EnQuest story and 
ensuring all our people there possess the necessary 
knowledge and understanding to embrace our working 
principles and values.
While we want our international teams to operate 
independently, and remain directly accountable for their 
performance and results, they are nevertheless part of the 
EnQuest family and it's important that our core principles are 
consistently applied, wherever we are working.
EnQuest's efficient and progressive HR practices were also 
evident in the logistical exercise undertaken to relocate the 
EnQuest Producer project to Tyneside in late 2013. It involved 
a significant effort by the team, which delivered a smooth 
and professional operation to transfer the large number of 
personnel involved in the programme.
At a corporate level, we demonstrated our commitment to 
transparency via full compliance with the legislative disclosure 
requirements associated with executive remuneration.
DIVERSITY POLICY
The Board works hard to ensure that it is able to recruit directors  
from different backgrounds, with diverse experience, 
perspectives, personalities, skills and knowledge. We believe 
that diversity amongst directors contributes towards a high 
performing, effective Board. 
EnQuest recruits where it works and 99% of our workforce is 
made up of local staff. Our gender statistics are representative  
of the demographics of the wider Oil & Gas industry and are 
made up as follows: 
Category Male Female % (Female)
Directors 6 1 14%
Senior managers 79 5 6%
Total employees 262 80 23%
Longest Day Cycle Challenge raised in excess of  15,500.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by the Company Secretary on 25 March 2014.
Stefan Ricketts
General Counsel and Company Secretary