 Enteq Upstream plc 
 
26 
 
Corporate Governance report 
 
 
This report for shareholders sets out Enteq Upstream PLC's approach to and compliance with the principles 
contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 
and explains any departure from its provisions. As an AiM listed Company, Enteq Upstream PLC is not obliged to 
follow the Code but the Board has determined that the Company will seek to follow the Code as far as practicable.  
 
Board Composition 
The Board of Enteq Upstream PLC is responsible for determining strategic direction and reviewing management and 
operational performance. Operational performance is delegated to the Executive Directors, who meet regularly to 
review the performance of and prospects for the business. The composition of the Board is set out below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Ian Leaman was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Group on 27 April 2012 and resigned from this position 
on 10 December 2013.  
** David Steel was appointed Finance Director of the Group on 12 June 2014. 
 
In the year under review the Board met on 11 scheduled occasions, with additional meetings and conference calls 
held as deemed necessary.  
 
The division of responsibilities between Neil Warner, Chairman, and Martin Perry, CEO, has been clearly established 
by way of written role statements, which have been prepared by the Board. The Chairman's main responsibilities are 
to lead the Board, liaising as necessary with the CEO on developments between meetings of the Board, and to 
ensure the CEO and his executive management team have appropriate objectives and that their performances 
against those objectives are reviewed. The CEO is responsible to the Board for the executive management of the 
Group and for liaising with the Chairman and keeping him informed on all matters. 
 
 
Board Evaluation 
During the year a Board evaluation was carried out by both the Non-Executive and Executive Directors.  The Board 
was regarded as effective and possessed sufficient skills and experience to enable it to discharge its responsibilities 
appropriately. The evaluation further confirms the Board's belief that the Board balance and the composition of 
each main Board Committee is appropriate. In reviewing the Board it was concluded that the skills and experience 
the Executive Directors bring to the Board are complementary to each other and those of the Non-Executive 
Directors. 
 
 
Board Committees  
The Board has three main committees to which it delegates responsibility and authority.   
 
 
Audit Committee  
The Audit Committee comprises solely of non-executive Directors of the Company. As explained above the non-
executive Directors are not considered to be independent and as such the composition does not meet the 
composition requirements of the Code at present. Whilst no members of the committee have direct, recent financial 
experience they are considered to have the necessary skills to fulfil their duties based on their knowledge of, and 
experience of working in, our core market, combined with the availability of financial advice either externally or from 
Neil Warner as and when they require it. The committee has met 3 times during the year under review. 
  
   
   
  
Board 
Audit  
committee 
Remuneration  
committee 
Nomination  
committee 
Raymond Garcia Chief Operations Officer Member    
Martin Perry Chief Executive Officer Member    
Ian Leaman* Chief Financial Officer Member    
David Steel** Finance Director Member    
Iain Paterson Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member 
Robin Pinchbeck Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member 
Neil Warner Non-Executive Director Chairman  Member Chairman  Enteq Upstream plc 
 
27 
 
 
Responsibilities 
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include to: 
  monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, including the Group's financial statements and 
Stock Exchange announcements; 
  monitor and review the Group's systems of internal control; 
  review reports from the Group's external auditors; 
  monitor any corporate governance and accounting developments; 
  monitor the Group's bribery act compliance procedures; 
  consider and recommend to the Board the reappointment of the external auditor; 
  agree the scope and fees of the external audit; 
  monitor and approve engagements of the external auditor to provide non-audit services to the Group; 
  review of the external auditor's independence and effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level 
and quality of service in relation to fees paid. 
 
External audit 
The external auditors' full year report includes a statement on their independence, their ability to remain objective 
and to undertake an effective audit. The committee considers and assesses this independence statement on behalf 
of the Board taking into account the level of fees paid particularly for non-audit services. The committee considers 
the effectiveness of the audit by reviewing and taking account of Financial Reporting Council reports on the 
auditors; input from executive management; consideration of responses to questions from the audit committee and 
the audit findings reported to the committee. 
 
Grant Thornton UK LLP have been the Group's auditor since incorporation. The Audit Committee is satisfied with 
their effectiveness and their independence and, given the short length of their tenure and the stage of the Group's 
development, has not considered it necessary to require an independent tender process. 
 
The committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors in respect of non-audit services, which are analysed within 
note 9. In 2014, fees for non-audit services totalled $49k in comparison to audit fees of $120k. The scope and 
extent of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor is monitored by, and, above certain thresholds, requires 
prior approval from the committee to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their independence 
or objectivity. 
 
Internal audit 
At the stage of the Group's development the Board do not consider it necessary or cost effective to employ a 
separate internal audit team. The senior finance team carries out reviews on an on-going basis. These reviews are 
available to the Committee and encompass the identification of the key business, financial, compliance and 
operational risks facing each operating location, together with an assessment of the controls in place for managing 
and mitigating these risks. The committee will continue to monitor the need for a separate internal audit function. 
 
Remuneration Committee  
The Remuneration Committee comprises solely of non-executive Directors of the Company and is responsible for 
reviewing remuneration arrangements for the Board and other senior employees of the Group and for providing 
general guidance on aspects of remuneration policy for the Group. The committee met twice during the year under 
review. 
 
Nomination Committee  
The Nomination Committee comprises solely of non-executive Directors of the Company and is responsible for 
reviewing and recommending executive and non-executive Board appointments for the Group. 
 
Prior to the appointment of a Director, the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of the Board's 
requirements to ensure the balance of skill and experience is maintained to fulfil the Group's strategy. When 
considering appointments due consideration is also given to the diversity of the Board to ensure there is an 
appropriate mix of experience and skill to enable the Board to operate as effectively as possible.  
 
On 10 December 2013 the committee met to consider the appointment of David Steel as Finance Director. 
Following an evaluation exercise, Mr Steel was appointed a Director, but not to the Board.  On 22
nd
 May 2014 the 
committee met to recommend that David Steel be appointed to the Board. 
 
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code's guidance for non-FTSE 350 companies on the re-election of 
directors and the articles of association of the Company, all directors are subject to re-election at the first annual 
general meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter on a triennial basis. On this basis, all 
directors have to stand for re-election at this year's annual general meeting. 
   Enteq Upstream plc 
 
28 
 
 
Internal Controls  
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group's system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness 
and for compliance with relevant legislation. The internal control system, which has been in place throughout the 
year under review, is structured to allow the Board to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which 
the Group is exposed. The system comprises the following elements:  
  Management Structure - within operational parameters set by the Board, management is delegated to the 
Executive Directors. The Executive Directors meet and communicate regularly with the Board to ensure a 
thorough and consistent flow of information about the business.  
  Reporting and Consolidation -The Group receives detailed financial information from subsidiaries, which take the 
form of monthly management accounts, annual budgets and forecast projections. The Group also monitors and 
reviews new UK Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, accounting standards, interpretations and 
amendments and legislation and other statutory requirements. Subsidiary reporting entities are supported by 
instruction from the Group. Data is subject to review and assessment by management through the monitoring 
of key performance ratios and comparison to targets and budgets. The content and format of reporting is kept 
under review and periodically amended to ensure appropriate information is available.  
  Strategic Planning and Budgeting - strategic plans and budgets containing comprehensive financial projections 
are formally presented to the Board for consideration and form the basis for monitoring performance.  
  Legislative Compliance and Codes of Conduct - the Group has and is implementing procedures to ensure it 
meets its legislative and other responsibilities. The Group has implemented formal procedures including the 
publication of bribery and corruption policies and guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers and 
agents, as well as policies for gifts, entertainment and hospitality.  
 
The Board considers that the Group does not fully comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, however, the 
Group have reported on their corporate governance arrangements by drawing upon best practice available, including 
those aspects of the UK Corporate Governance Code considered to be relevant to the Group and best practice with 
the exception of the following provisions: 
 
  For the reasons identified in the Remuneration Committee Report above none of the Non-Executive Directors 
are considered to be independent. As such the Group was not compliant with provisions A.1.2, A.4.1, B.1.1, B.1.2 
or C.3.1; 
  No member of the audit committee has direct, recent financial experience. As such the Group was not 
compliant with provision C.3.1; 
  For the reasons identified in the Remuneration Committee Report above the Remuneration Committee has not 
set upper limits on executive remuneration levels. As such the Group was not compliant with the provisions in 
schedule A 