 16
Except where noted below, the company has complied in full with the requirements of the Combined Code (2000) appended to the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the
company.
The Board
The Board comprises of the Chairman, three non-executive directors and five executive directors. The Board is responsible to
shareholders for the proper management of the company. A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of these financial
statements is set out in the directors' report. In addition the specific roles and responsibilities of the Board members and the Board
committees are documented within the corporate governance manual adopted by the company and communicated to all Board
members.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of these
internal controls. This system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives (it being
impractical to provide absolute assurance against material loss or mis-statement within any business). In accordance with the guidance
of the Turnbull Committee on Internal Control, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks
faced by the company. This process has been in place for the full financial year end and up to the date the financial statements were
approved.
The Board is also responsible for approving company policy and strategy (including all major acquisitions, capital expenditure and
development projects). The Board meets formally six times a year and receives appropriate and timely management information at least
monthly (and more often when circumstances require). All directors have access to the company secretary and independent
professionals at the company's expense.
The senior non-executive director on the Board is Lord Razzall who is considered an independent director. Through their shareholdings
in the company and association with previously acquired businesses neither Keith Peraux nor Peter Bowden are considered independent
directors. Nigel Turnbull is not considered an independent director due to his position as Chairman of the Board. As a result the Board
does not comply with the Combined Code (2000) Section A2.3 in respect of the number of independent directors on the Board. This
shortfall in independent non-executive direction also leads to non-compliance with the Combined Code (2000) Sections B2.1, B2.2 and
D3.1 in respect of the membership of the Remuneration and Audit Committees. However, given the ability and experience of the non-
executive directors, together with the shareholdings of all executive directors in the company, the Board is confident that its
composition, and that of its main sub-committees, provides sufficient safeguards and controls to its shareholder base.
The non-executive directors will meet annually to assess the performance of the Board as a whole and suggest recommendations for
improved Board and Board Committee effectiveness. Annual performance reviews of all Board members will be undertaken by either the
Erinaceous Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Corporate Governance Report
for the year ended 31 March 2004
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities
for the group s system of internal controls and
the effectiveness of these internal controls  17
chief executive for all executive directors (excluding himself) and the chairman for all other directors. The chairman will be appraised by
the chief executive and the senior non-executive director. 
The principal committees of the Board are noted below.
Audit Committee
The audit committee is chaired by Lord Razzall and also comprises Nigel Turnbull and Peter Bowden. The audit committee meets at
least three times a year to consider the announcement of half-year and full-year financial information, and to review the scope, quality
and results of the external audit. In addition the audit committee review and sets targets for internal financial controls (including
internal audit procedures and risk management procedures), reviews the quality and timeliness of internal financial information and
approves fees payable to and reappointment of the auditors for audit and non-audit services. The Committee has met three times in the
past year. The committee has received a report from the auditors of the group which outlines their independence. In addition this
report has been reviewed and accepted by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee
The remuneration committee is chaired by Nigel Turnbull and also comprises Lord Razzall and Keith Peraux. Its terms of reference are
discussed within the Remuneration Report. The Committee has met twice in the past year.
Nominations Committee
A nomination committee has been set up chaired by Lord Razzall also comprising Nigel Turnbull and Keith Peraux. The committee
(which has not yet been required to meet) will oversee the recommendation, appointment and relevant training and induction
requirements of new board appointments.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The Board are aware of the impending move towards International Financial Reporting Standards for listed companies. The first
financial statements of the group that will be required to be presented under International Financial Reporting Standards are those in
respect of the year ending 31 March 2006. The finance director has undertaken initial training and research to understand the likely
impact of these changes on the financial statements of the group and a detailed report on the impact will be presented to the audit
committee in the coming months.
Environmental policy
It is the company's policy to support and encourage environmentally sound business operations. The company's own operations have a
minimal direct environmental impact however the company has specifically encouraged environmentally friendly policies including: 
 the use of environmentally friendly working practices. This will include investment in document imaging workflows across the group
to reduce paper trails and wastage;
 recycling of waste products and the use of environmentally friendly products wherever possible;
 where applicable and practicable the purchase of electric cars for use as company fleet cars; and
 office relocation to encourage the use of public transport.
Health, safety and regulatory issues
The company recognises the importance of health and safety issues and the high standard required to ensure the health, safety and
welfare of its employees at work, its customers and the general public. 
The company employs relevant compliance officers to ensure relevant industry and general regulations, money laundering procedures
and other compliance requirements are followed by all employees. This includes compliance with the regulations of the Royal Institute
of Chartered Surveyors, the General Insurance Standards Council and Investors in People. An early application has been made in respect
of the new Financial Services Authority regulations which will affect the Group and a committee has been set up to ensure full
compliance. The majority of the FSA compliance mirrors that currently undertaken by the group in respect of its membership of the
GISC.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Erinaceous Group plc   18
Relations with shareholders
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises the importance of communications with them. There is a regular
dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the company's announcements of half-year and full-year results.
In addition, and in order to help with communication with all investors, all announcements are posted on the company's website
(www.erinaceous.com). The AGM gives shareholders the opportunity to participate and ask questions of the Chairman, the Chairmen of
all Board Committees and all executive directors. 
Risk management
The Board is responsible for ensuring the company documents and assesses its key risks, and takes appropriate actions to alleviate
these risks where practical. A risk assessment (including actions) has been prepared for the group as a whole, and for each of the key
divisions within the group. These risk assessments are reviewed regularly to ensure relevant actions are being performed to reduce the
risks, and to consider whether the type or quantum of key risks has changed. In addition the Board receives regular non-financial
reports from each key operating division that discuss changing business dynamics and risks at a sub-divisional level. 
Internal financial controls are overseen by the finance director and audit committee. Informal internal audit procedures are performed
by the finance director and group financial controller. The company intends to implement formal internal audit procedures within the
next twelve months.
Risk Factors 
At the time of flotation the directors identified the following risks which were material to the company in common with most other
services companies:
 dependence on key customers;
 suppliers;
 staff retention;
 acquisitions;
 reputation; and
 competition.
The recent acquisitions reduce the group's dependence on its largest client, Westminster City Council, as will the expected growth from
the cross selling opportunities now available to the group. The organic growth of the residential letting service will also have the same
effect. The group has also developed relationships with a range of insurers providing some mitigation of key supplier risks.
The appointment of a group director of human resources has recently been made to implement employment plans to improve staff
retention. The group are proposing to introduce a SAYE and share purchase scheme in the near future. 
The group undertakes thorough internal due diligence procedures on new acquisitions and uses external consultants where deemed
appropriate. Additionally the group derives a substantial benefit from its investment in IT both in improving margins as a result of
operational efficiency and the development of products for the residential lettings market. This is a key area of the business. The group
continues to monitor the quality of its service output across all business streams. This is part of a wide range of actions to ensure the
risk of reputational damage is minimised and the threat posed by competition is reduced.
Lord Razzall 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 June 2004
Erinaceous Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2004