 eurodis electron annual report 2003 17
Compliance
The Board supports the principles of corporate governance set
out in section 1 of the Combined Code appended to the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the Code ). The Board
confirms that the Company complies with the requirements of the
Code and has done so throughout the year, with the exception that
Mr P .C.H. Vey, a Non-Executive Director, who does not currently
have a fixed term of office. 
The manner in which the Group applies the principles of good
corporate governance, as defined by the Code, is described in 
the appropriate sections of this report.
During the year the Company has maintained a Board of
Directors, which leads and controls the Company and comprises
three Non-Executives, four Executive Directors, including the Chief
Executive Officer and an Executive Chairman. The Board met on
eleven occasions during the year, although there is routine contact
with the Non-Executive Directors in respect of significant matters
as they arise. Seven of the meetings were attended by all the
Directors, Ms M-A. van Ingen and Mr M. E. Mason were absent
on two occasions and Mr P .C.H. Vey on one occasion. 
Mr. P .H.P . Stephens is appointed as the senior independent 
Non-Executive Director. 
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 13.
The role of the Board is to maximise the long term performance 
of the Group through the ongoing development of a strategy to
create shareholder value. The Board reviews and implements
strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises control by
establishing extensive performance criteria and monitoring
subsequent performance.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company
and the Code each Director is subject to re-election by the
Company's shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
immediately following appointment and at least every three years
thereafter. With the exception of Mr P .C.H. Vey the Non-Executive
Directors have fixed terms of office of three years that are capable
of being renewed on a maximum of two occasions, so that they
shall hold office for no longer than nine years. 
The Board has a schedule of matters, including those relating to
social, ethical and environmental concerns, specifically reserved 
to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference
for the Audit and Remuneration Committees to which it has
delegated its authority in certain matters. The schedule makes 
it clear that all Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and establishes a procedure for 
all Directors to take independent advice, if necessary, at the
Company's expense. Appropriate training is arranged on
appointment and as required thereafter.
Mr. P .H.P . Stephens and Ms. M-A. van Ingen are regarded as
independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board in that they
have no other commercial, family or other relationships with the
Company, its customers, suppliers, employees or shareholders.
Mr. P .C.H. Vey is not regarded as independent as he has served
as a Non-Executive Director for twenty years. Mr. P .C.H. Vey has
indicated his intention to resign in 2003. With the centralisation of
the Group, the future composition of the Board is being carefully
considered by the Directors and the Nomination Committee. The
intention is that the future structure and membership will conform
to both the needs of the business and the requirements of good
corporate governance. 
corporate governance
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors with
Mr. P .C.H. Vey as Chairman. The Committee met twice in the
year. It assists the Board in observing its responsibility for
ensuring that the Group's information systems provide accurate
and up-to-date information on the financial position and that the
Group's published financial statements represent a true and fair
reflection of this position. It also assists the Board in ensuring 
that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial controls 
and compliance procedures are in place. At the invitation of the
Committee, the Auditors and Executive Directors attend its
meetings. The Auditors report on the results of their work
performed throughout the Group. The Audit Committee reviews
the non audit services that have been provided.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises of the Non-Executive
Directors. Mr. P .H.P . Stephens acts as Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met five times during the year, and is responsible
for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for
determining the remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 14 to 16.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises of Mr. P .H.P . Stephens 
as Chairman, Mr. R.S. Leigh and Mr. P .C.H. Vey. The Committee
is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board,
persons who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and
Non-Executive Directors. Appointments remain the responsibility
of the whole Board. The Nomination Committee meets when
required and retains the services of external consultants as
necessary.
Risk Assessment
As required by the Turnbull guidance, during the year the Board
completed a further risk assessment process on the key financial,
operational and compliance risks to identify, evaluate and manage
significant risks to the Group's business. These assessments also
included risks associated with social, environmental and ethical
matters. The assessments have been effected at both Group 
and individual company level. They included common definitions
of risk and ensure, as far as practicable, that the policies and
procedures established by the Board are appropriate to manage
the perceived risks to the Group. During the year, the risk
assessment process revealed no significant risks of which the
Board was not previously aware. The Board acknowledges that 
it is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. As with all such systems, internal
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. 18 eurodis electron annual report 2003
Internal Control
The processes of internal control have been in place for the full
year. The day to day running of the Group's business is delegated
to an Operating Board consisting of the Executive Directors of the
Company, the Group Vice Presidents of Sales, Marketing, Operations
and Human Resources. The proceedings of the Operating Board
are routinely reviewed by the Board of the Company.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a daily,
weekly and/or monthly basis and are measured against both
budget and interim forecasts which have been approved and
reviewed by the Board. The Board has established a clear
organisational structure with authority levels within the Group
defined through written policies and procedures. These policies
and procedures are published to each company in the Group and
are available to all staff through the Group intranet. 
The Group Internal Audit process is based on regular internal self
certification, by the individual companies, of compliance to the
Group's policies and procedures. The Board has reviewed the
effectiveness of this and of the systems of internal control. This
process is part of the regular, detailed, business reviews
conducted by senior Group staff. The present process of internal
control has been successful and cost effective but consideration
has been given to augmenting the present processes with some
element of independent internal audit. However with the cash and
cost constraints of the past year action has been deferred for the
time being.
Through the detailed reporting and reviews, risk management and
the process of internal audit, the Board continues to embed
internal control and risk management into the operations of the
business and to continuously review policies and procedures to
ensure that they are appropriate, understood and fully implemented
and to effect improvements which come to the attention of 
the Board.
Ethics and Environmental Policy
As part of the Group's Ethics Policy, the Board has issued an
Environmental Policy Statement within the Group's policies and
procedures. The operation of the Group's businesses does not
have a material risk of direct negative environmental impact. The
Board nevertheless seeks to limit any such impact and ensure 
that environmental concerns are properly taken into account in 
all relevant decisions. Environmental Action Plans, sponsored 
by Mr. M.E. Mason, have been initiated to identify and measure
environmental improvements in the Group's operations. Specific
individuals at each main location are responsible for managing the
local plan and undertaking any training that may be required. 
The consolidation of the Group's local warehouses across Europe
into the single, purpose built Advanced Logistics Centre in
Haaksbergen, East Netherlands, has reduced overall environmental
costs. Enhanced risk management, the efficiencies of scale, the
recycling of waste, minimised handling, improved health and safety
and the use of environmentally friendly packaging have lowered
still further the environmental impact of the Group's operations.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company maintains regular contact with major shareholders
to ensure full understanding of the Group's objectives and monitors
movements in significant shareholdings. Notice of the Annual
General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least twenty
working days prior to the Meeting. In the absence of a poll being
called, Proxy Votes cast will be declared after each Resolution 
has been dealt with on a show of hands and the details posted 
on the Company's website - www.eurodis.com. The Chairman 
of the Board and of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will
normally be available to answer questions at the meeting.
Going Concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern
basis as, after making appropriate enquiries and completion 
of the refinancing of the Group and Company and raising of
approximately s25.2m of new equity through a Placing and Open
Offer to shareholders, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group and the Company have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Statement of Directors' Responsibility for 
Preparing the Accounts
The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial
statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year
and of the profit or loss for that period. In preparing these financial
statements suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, 
and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper and
adequate accounting records have been maintained, which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial
position of the Company and the Group which enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 1985. The Directors also have general responsibility for taking
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the
Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
corporate governance
continued