 Alexandra plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority
includes fourteen principles of good governance which are applicable to listed companies.
It is the policy of Alexandra to manage its affairs in accordance with these principles.
The fourteen principles of the code are divided into four parts: Directors, Directors'
Remuneration, Relations with Shareholders, and Accountability and Audit. The Group has
been in full compliance with the provisions of the code throughout the year except where
indicated below.
The new 2003 Combined Code was adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July
2003 and comes into force for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 November
2003. The Board is reviewing the revised requirements and will report fully on compliance
with the new Code in the 2005 report and accounts.  
Directors
The business of the Group is managed by the Board of Directors, which met ten times
during the year. The meetings follow a formal agenda covering matters specifically
reserved for decision by the Board.  These include key areas of the Group's affairs such as
overall strategy, organisational and compliance issues, acquisition policy, approval of
annual and interim results and budgets, major capital expenditure programmes and
financing issues. The Board also reviews trading performance and receives regular reports
and presentations on all aspects of the business. To enable the Board to discharge its
duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information. In addition, there is
frequent contact between meetings to progress the Group's business. Directors have the
facility to take independent professional advice should they wish.
At the start of the financial year the Board comprised four Executive and two
Non-Executive Directors. Following the appointment of Mr C A Marsh as a Non-Executive
Director on 25 March 2003, the resignation of Mr M C Foyle on 31 August 2003 as
Marketing Director and the retirement of Mr D W Dunn as Non-Executive Chairman on
31 January 2004, there are now three Executive and two Non-Executive Directors. There
is a clear delineation of responsibility between the Chairman, Chief Executive and the
other Directors.  Mr R Wynn-Jones, who was appointed Deputy Chairman on 18 April 2000,
is the senior independent Non-Executive Director. Mr Wynn-Jones was first appointed to
the Board on 7 February 1995, and has now served on the Board for 9 years. The Board
considers that despite this length of service Mr Wynn-Jones remains fully independent and
following evaluation of his performance believes that he can and will continue to provide
a valuable contribution to the operation of the Board.
The current Directors are listed on page 11 together with brief details of their backgrounds.
These details demonstrate a wide range of experience and in the case of the
Non-Executive Directors independence, which are invaluable in the Board's deliberations.
Code provision A.6.2 requires all Directors to submit themselves for re-election at regular
intervals and at least every three years. All Directors are subject to re-election by the
shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and the Non-Executive
Directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years. In line with the
Company's Articles of Association, the Executive Directors do not currently retire by
rotation. The Directors wish to ensure compliance with this provision in the future and a
special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to approve a change to
the Articles of Association to require the Executive Directors to retire by rotation.
Corporate Governance 16 Alexandra plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
The Board has appointed two formal committees: the Audit Committee and the
Remuneration Committee, each of which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Due to its size the Board does not consider a permanent Nomination Committee to be
appropriate, instead such a Committee is formed as required to assess candidates for
appointment as a Director.
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr D W Dunn until his retirement on 31 January 2004
and is now chaired by Mr C A Marsh. It comprises the Non-Executive Directors and meets at least once
a year. The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of each of the
Executive Directors. The Chief Executive normally participates in the discussions of the Remuneration
Committee except when his own performance or remuneration is under review. Where appropriate,
the Committee takes advice from external remuneration consultants. The Board determines the
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. The Report on the Directors' Remuneration is set out on
pages 18 to 21. 
As noted in the Report on the Directors' Remuneration, the Company does not comply with Code
provision B.1.7 which recommends that Directors' contract periods should be set at one year or less.
Relations with shareholders
The Group encourages communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and
responds quickly to all enquiries received. The Group also undertakes a formal programme of
institutional presentations on the announcement of its full year and interim results. In addition, all
Directors are normally present to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Accountability and audit
The Board seeks to ensure that its Annual Report and other public financial statements provide a clear
assessment of the Group's position. On the basis of the current financial projections and facilities
available, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it is appropriate
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have responsibility for the Group's systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing
their effectiveness. It is recognised that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of business objectives not being achieved and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group
has been established and was operational throughout the year to 31 January 2004. The process is
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the  Internal Control - Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code' produced by the Turnbull working party.
The management of all forms of business risk is an important part of ensuring the Group creates and
protects value for its shareholders. The processes involved call for the identification of specific risks in
many different areas, the assessment of those risks in terms of their potential impact, the likelihood of
them materialising and then decisions as to the most appropriate method of managing them. The latter
may include regular monitoring, investment in additional resources, transfer to third parties via
insurance or hedging agreements and contingency planning.
As required by Code provision D.2.2 the Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function
and has concluded that sufficient internal controls exist within the Group and that the operation is not
large enough to warrant a dedicated internal audit function. However, the Group did undertake a
number of specific audit procedures during the course of the year.
Corporate Governance   continued Alexandra plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17
Code provision D.3.1 requires the Board to establish an Audit Committee of at least three
Non-Executive Directors. During the year from 31 January 2003 to 25 March 2003 there were only
two Non-Executive Directors. On 25 March 2003 a third Non-Executive Director was appointed,
resulting in the Group complying with this Code provision until 31 January 2004. Since Mr Dunn's
retirement on 31 January 2004 there have only been two Non-Executive Directors and the Group
does not currently comply with this Code provision. The Board has noted that, in the case of smaller
quoted companies, the new Code only requires a minimum of two independent Non-Executive
Directors, for the Board and for the Audit Committee. The Company, therefore, has no current plans
to increase the number of Non-Executive Directors. The Audit Committee, which was chaired by Mr
D W Dunn until his retirement on 31 January 2004 is now chaired by Mr C A Marsh. It comprises the
Non-Executive Directors and met twice during the year. Meetings are also attended by the Executive
Directors by invitation.  The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including
the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board and for monitoring the
controls which are in place to ensure the integrity of information reported to the shareholders. The
Audit Committee advise the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and
discuss the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
Corporate and social responsibility
We believe that sound social, ethical and environmental practices make good business sense and
have embraced these principles into our general operations.
Alexandra plc is committed to providing equal opportunities irrespective of sex, age, marital status,
disability, sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or national origin or religious belief. Our employment
policies provide a structure in which our staff can develop and achieve their ambitions and are
regularly reviewed to ensure compliance with current employment legislation and good practice.
We recognise that we are part of all the individual communities that we serve as well as of the wider
national community. As such we encourage and support a number of charitable initiatives and sponsor
staff fundraising efforts for a variety of causes.
The Company's operations are executed at all times in such a way as to ensure, so far as reasonably
practical, the Health, Safety and Welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who may be
affected by our operation. We are committed to the prevention of accidents and regularly review and
update procedures and training to ensure that, as far as possible, staff minimise any risks associated
with their tasks.   
All areas of the Company operate in accordance with the Company's Environmental Policy. We
recognise the impact of our operations on the environment and our aim is to reduce this impact and
to operate in an environmentally responsible manner. The Company and its employees undertake to
act whenever necessary to meet the standards of current environmental legislation and continue to
review the policies, systems and services to this end.  All waste generated is properly disposed of in
accordance with current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste wherever practical. 
The Company requires its suppliers to comply with the ethical and environmental standards detailed
in our quality manual and performs checks on them using our own staff and now also employs
independent consultants to carry out audits. The Company will only purchase from companies that
meet core minimum requirements and are prepared to work towards continuous improvement in
their operations.