 FairBriar PLC
Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance 
20/21
Corporate governance
General
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Company supports the Combined Code on corporate governance,
and taking account of the size of both the Company and its Board of Directors, the Company, except as disclosed, complies with all
aspects of the Code. The Company's corporate governance arrangements are set out below.
Board structure
The Company is controlled by its Board of Directors, which has established a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for
decision. The Board currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors as well as two executive Directors. 
The Board reviews on a regular basis its composition, in respect of the diversity of skill and experience and the characteristics 
required of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors in the context of the business and its strategies. The position of Chairman 
is Non-Executive and is separate from the Chief Executive. Each month the Board meets on a formal basis with frequent informal
meetings between the Chairman and Chief Executive. The Board receives regular management reports and information that it needs 
in order to discharge its duties effectively.
The Board is responsible for the appointment of its own members. Due to the size of the Company, there is no separate committee 
to consider nominations for any new appointments to the Board. All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after appointment and to re-election thereafter every three years. All Directors have rolling one year service contracts.
Non-Executive Directors, independence and related party transactions
The Non-Executive Directors comprise, Mr KC McCabe, Mrs LA Pairman and Mr RA Bourne. They are considered by the Board to be
independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement. They all have an interest in the Company. The Non-Executive Directors have extensive experience in dealing
with the affairs of listed companies.
Where material related party transactions occur appropriate shareholder approval is sought. 
Non-Executive Directors' experience and profiles
Kevin McCabe - Non-Executive Chairman
Kevin McCabe, who is 55, joined the Board as Non-Executive Chairman in February 1998, although he was previously a Non-Executive
Director between December 1992 and June 1995. He is a qualified surveyor and is a director of a number of property companies. He
has extensive experience of property development throughout the UK.
Annette Pairman - Senior Non-Executive Director
Annette Pairman, who is 46, joined the Board in February 1998 and has specific responsibilities for corporate governance matters.
She is a solicitor and was previously a partner in the legal practice of Burness, specialising in corporate related activities.
Robert Bourne - Non-Executive Director
Robert Bourne, who is 53, joined the Board in September 2000. He is a chartered accountant with considerable experience in the
London property market, both commercial and residential.
Audit committee 
The audit committee comprises Mr KC McCabe (as Chairman), Mrs LA Pairman and Mr RA Bourne, all Non-Executive Directors. 
The audit committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities of reviewing systems of internal control and risk management. 
It has met once during the period to consider matters arising from the external audit and the Annual Report, including the statement 
on internal control. The auditors have open recourse to the Non-Executive Directors, should they consider it necessary. FairBriar PLC
Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance 
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls.
This increased the existing requirements in respect of internal financial controls to cover all controls including financial, operational,
compliance and risk management. The Directors have continued to review and report upon internal financial controls, however no 
formal review of the wider risks facing the Group has been undertaken thus far.
As set out below all major projects are subject to a formal review process at Board level and the Board do not believe that the lack 
of a formal risk review is detrimental to a Group of FairBriar's size, however the Board will continue to monitor the financial and project
risk profile of the Group and conduct a formal risk review as appropriate in the future.
Key elements of the Group's system of financial control are as follows:
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order
to achieve its objectives. Lines of responsibility and delegations of authority are documented.
The key internal financial controls operated within the Group are:
There is a well developed budgeting and forecasting system which is regularly reviewed by the Directors. All operating divisions, joint
ventures and associated entities prepare monthly reports and these are compared to budget and forecast; 
All major new property development projects and major capital expenditure is subject to a formal review process involving approval 
by the Board;
Detailed project cost reports are reviewed by management and summary project status reports are considered formally by the Board 
on a monthly basis; and
All purchase orders are approved by the two executive Directors. 
Risk identification
The Directors are responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to their area of the business. These risks are
identified and assessed on a continual basis. The Group has carried out a review of interest rate risk and taken specialist advice in 
this respect. As a result, interest rate hedging instruments have been implemented for the Group and for a joint venture, Wandsworth
Riverside Quarter Limited. Details of the interest rate hedging for the Group are set out within note 20 to the financial statements.
Information and communication
To enable the Board to make considered decisions relevant information is made available to all Board members in advance of
Board meetings. 
Investment appraisals are prepared for all property acquisitions and developments. Performance against original appraisal is actively
monitored monthly at Board and management level and is supported by regular forecasts. Forecasts and results are presented to 
the Board on a regular basis.
These mechanisms ensure that Group performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner and their financial
implications assessed, control procedures continuously evaluated and corrective actions, if required, agreed and implemented. FairBriar PLC
Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance continued
22/23
Control procedures
The Group has implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and 
to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets by fraud. Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties and
management reviews.
Monitoring and corrective action
There are clear and consistent procedures in place for monitoring the system of internal financial controls.
Internal audit function
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function. However given the size of the Company, the Board consider that such 
a function is neither necessary nor appropriate.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of current internal control systems which are designed to meet the Group's particular
needs and the risks to which it is exposed. By the nature of this review the Directors can provide reasonable, albeit not absolute,
assurance against misstatement or loss.
Other issues
The following are further specific areas where the Company has not complied with the Combined Code as the Directors do not feel 
that these are appropriate for a company of this size and nature. There are no specific provisions or procedures for Directors to take
independent professional advice although such advice is taken as and when it is considered appropriate; Non-Executive Directors have
not been appointed for specific terms of office without automatic reappointment; there are no formal procedures for matters to be
considered at, nor for the conduct of, the AGM.
Going concern
The Group has positive net worth of  10.9 million and significant undrawn banking facilities which were renewed in 2003. After making
due enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these accounts. 
Investor relations
The Board is mindful of the need to communicate effectively with all shareholders and therefore provides key corporate information 
on its website, www.fairbriar.co.uk.
On behalf of the Board
LA Pairman
Senior Non-Executive Director
26 February 2004