 Fiberweb plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38
Performance
Risk Management
WE SET OUT BELOW THE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERT AINTIES 
WHICH COULD HA VE A MA TERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP'S 
PERFORMANCE AND WHICH COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESUL TS TO 
DIFFER MA TERIALL Y FROM EXPECTED AND HISTORICAL RESUL TS
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
1. Raw material costs
Description
Raw materials represent the single most important input for 
the Group's production, representing approximately 50% of 
sales. Although there are a variety of raw materials used by the 
Group, the key raw materials continue to be polypropylene and 
polyester. The prices of polypropylene and polyester are volatile 
and depend primarily on the price of crude oil and monomer 
and  polymer manufacturing capacity and demand. 
Historically, increases in the prices of both of these key materials 
have put pressure on the Group's margins. 
 
Mitigation
The Group is subject to contractual pass-through arrangements 
on approximately 40% of revenues, whereby price increases or 
decreases in the cost of relevant raw materials are passed on to 
its customers. The Group actively seeks to manage the volatility 
caused by movements in raw material prices through hedging 
transactions and strategic alliances with polypropylene and 
polyester producers, when attractive opportunities to do so are 
available. No such hedging or fixed price contracts were in place 
during the year although a hedge is in place on 2,400MT of US 
propylene purchases to be made in 2013.
3. Competition
Description
The Group faces competition from global and local competitors 
that provide similar products to those offered by the Group. 
Competition in the industry is based upon: range and quality of 
products offered; the ability to deliver new products; geographic 
reach; reputation; price and customer relationships. While these 
risks have not changed in nature over recent periods, prices and 
demand in the Group's markets could be negatively affected 
if existing competitors increase their supply or cut prices, or if 
new competitors enter the market with new products and/or 
favourable cost structures, or if important customers reduce 
demand or request significantly reduced prices. In response 
to a changing competitive environment, the Group may need 
from time to time to make certain pricing, service or marketing 
decisions that could have an adverse effect on its sales, results 
of  operations and overall financial condition.
 
Mitigation
The Group mitigates competitive pressure by striving to build 
competitive advantage, especially in the areas of manufacturing 
cost, manufacturing and product technology, applications 
knowledge and brand. The Group researches its competitive 
position regularly and each significant decision is considered in 
the light of its impact on the Group's competitive advantage and 
this consideration is updated regularly.
2.  Customer and supplier dependency
Description
Across certain markets in which the Group operates there is a 
high degree of dependency on maintaining good relationships 
with a relatively small number of key customers. The failure of 
the Group and its key customers to renew contracts could result 
in a significant reduction in the demand for its products. This 
continues to be the case for Procter & Gamble which, through 
a  number of different contracts and purchasing arrangements 
of varying durations, accounted for approximately 9% (2011: 11%) 
of sales in 2012. In terms of overall concentration, the Group's top 
ten customers accounted for 32% (2011: 32%) of continuing Group 
sales in 2012. Following the hygiene disposal, Fitesa, our former 
joint venture partner , continues to play an important role in the 
Group's commercial negotiations with its key European hygiene 
customers. The failure of one or more of these customers or Fitesa, 
or the deterioration in the Group's relationship with Fitesa could 
therefore have material adverse effect on the Group's reputation, 
business, results of operations and overall financial condition. 
Similar dependency arises in respect of maintaining regular 
supplies of polypropylene and other resins and fibres. 
 
 
The Group is reliant on a relatively small number of critical suppliers 
in the global market. Given the limited number of alternative 
suppliers, a disruption in the supply chain could lead to  the Group 
being unable to satisfy the needs of its customers. The failure of 
one or more of the Group's key suppliers could therefore have a 
material adverse effect on the Group's reputation, business, results 
of operations and overall financial condition. 
Mitigation
With respect to its key customers, the Group maintains relations 
with customers at various management levels and seeks to engage 
regularly with the majority of its customers. The Group adopts 
rigorous and regular reviews of credit limits and customer balances, 
with shipments held in the event of any default. Through 2012, 
the Group had credit insurance in place in those jurisdictions and 
for those customers for whom the cover was available. No credit 
insurance cover is held for 2013. The Group maintains regular 
dialogue with the senior management of Fitesa. The Group seeks to 
mitigate the risk of interruptions to material supply contracts through 
diversity of supply and by  negotiating group-wide contracts. Fiberweb plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
4. Financial covenants
Description
In December 2012, the Group entered into a  40 million 
multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility (RCF), expiring on 
31 March 2017 , and the former facility was cancelled. During 
2012, under the  terms of the former facility, covenants were 
tested on a quarterly basis and included an EBITDA/net debt 
gearing covenant of 2.75x and an interest cover covenant of 
5.0x. The  new RCF covenants include an EBITDA/net debt 
covenant of  2.5x and an interest cover covenant of 5.0x and 
these  covenants will be tested on a semi-annual basis through 
the  life of the facility. 
The continued need to comply with these covenants could 
restrict the operational flexibility and management decisions 
of the Group and there is no guarantee that any re-financing 
negotiation would be successful or possible on commercially 
acceptable terms. 
 
Mitigation
The Group's outstanding drawdowns under the former RCF 
were repaid in full in January 2012 following the hygiene disposal. 
The Group remained in a net cash position throughout the year 
and reports net cash of  14.5 million (2011:  22.0 million) at 
31  December 2012. Accordingly, the Group does not anticipate 
non-compliance with these covenants.
The Group's forecasts continue to be updated regularly and 
adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal risks to 
which the Group is exposed and allow for reasonably possible 
adverse variances in trading performance, such as fluctuations 
in raw material prices, exchange rates and the impact of both 
specific and macroeconomic events and conditions on the 
Group's underlying trading results. Consideration is then given 
to the potential actions available to management to mitigate 
the impact of one or more of these sensitivities. Whilst the 
current facility expires in March 2017 , the Group's central and 
sensitised forecasts show that, absent significant investment in 
an acquisition opportunity or material organic investment above 
the  expected annual level of capital expenditure, the Group 
expects to be able to operate comfortably within the level of its 
current facility and remain covenant compliant.
5.  Economics, market and trading conditions
Description
Group sales, expenses and operating results could vary 
significantly from period to period as a result of a variety of 
factors, some of which are outside the Group's control. These 
factors include general economic conditions, conditions 
specific to the market and conditions specific to the Group. 
A  negative  change in economic conditions in the Group's 
customer markets, including, for example, a downturn in the 
Canadian or US housing market, prolonged depression and price 
pressure in the European construction and civil engineering 
markets, deterioration in customer confidence or new products 
and processes entering the Group's market place, could 
adversely impact the Group's business. 
In addition, significant increases in energy costs ( ca. 7% of 
sales ), the cost of transport and distribution ( ca. 3% of sales ) 
and employment costs in the locations where the Group's 
manufacturing sites are based could adversely impact the 
profitability of the Group. 
Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates 
can have a material impact on the Group's business, results of 
operations and overall financial position. The Group operates 
globally, with the majority of its revenues earned outside the 
UK and with significant investments around the world. As a 
result, the  Group is subject to currency translation risk due to 
movements between various currencies (mainly the US dollar 
and the euro ) and its reporting currency, sterling. 
 
Mitigation
In order to reduce the effect of foreign exchange movements on 
its reported earnings, the Group borrows, where commercially 
appropriate, in the currencies of its operations, thus creating a 
natural hedge for a proportion of its balance sheet. The Group 
also enters into derivative financial instruments in currencies 
that partially hedge its net investment values. As a result of the 
current economic uncertainties facing a number of countries 
around the world, there has been a change in the Group's risk 
profile. An  example is where credit insurance coverage has been 
withdrawn in certain countries. The outcome of recent events 
remains uncertain. Austerity measures are likely to result in changes 
in growth rates and demand for products in those countries. These 
conditions may give rise to delays or defaults on contracts with 
customers based in countries experiencing difficulties and may 
affect the expectation of future business volumes and margins. 
The Group does not hold any significant assets in the main 
countries currently experiencing the most severe financial issues 
as a result of the European crisis, such as Greece, Ireland, Spain 
and Portugal. In 2012, combined sales to customers in these 
countries accounted for just over 3.6% (2011: 3%) of total Group 
sales. Fiberweb does have operations in Italy in Terno d'Isola. 
Sales to customers in Italy in 2012 represented 3.6% (2011: 4.8%) 
of total external sales. As a matter of routine cash management, 
the Group's policy is to minimise cash held in individual 
subsidiaries. The Group is not dependent on any key suppliers 
in  these countries.