 Corporate Governance
Statement
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance
The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance. During the year the Financial Reporting Council
approved a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which became effective for companies' financial periods
beginning on or after 1 November 2003. For the year ended 31 May 2004 the directors confirm that the company has
been in compliance with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code effective for that accounting period except
in respect of Professor J D Rhodes' combined role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Professor John Roulston will
be appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 6 September 2004 and from that date the company will be compliant with
section 1 of the code.
Internal control
The Board has adopted the published guidance by the Turnbull Committee on the implementation of the internal
control requirements of the Combined Code and accepts that the Board has overall responsibility for establishing and
maintaining the company's system of internal control. Internal control systems are designed to be relevant to the
company and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures established by the directors with a view to providing effective
internal control are as follows:
(a) Control environment and monitoring systems
The Board meets each month and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for
decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational
and compliance issues. The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. Additionally, the Board has established an Executive Management Board
which is responsible for operational matters within the company.
The audit committee, which comprises all of the non-executive directors, reviews the effectiveness of the system of
internal control. The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the company's annual financial
statements. They test the system of internal financial control and the information contained within the annual report
and financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing their opinion.
(b) Major information systems
The directors have delegated to executive management implementation of the system of internal control
throughout the company. This includes financial controls which enable the Board to meet its responsibilities for
the integrity and accuracy of the company's accounting records.
The Board approves, in aggregate, budgets and other performance targets, the components of which form the
financial objectives for individual operating units. Performance against these targets is reported monthly. Financial
forecasts are updated and reviewed monthly and include cash flow forecasts.
(c) Main control procedures
In addition to matters reserved for Board decisions, the company has established a system whereby authority to take
decisions is distributed throughout the company. This distribution of authority defines procedures for authorisation
and approval and sets appropriate levels of responsibility.
An accounting policies and procedures manual sets out the company's declared statement of policy in all financial
areas and establishes the control procedures, including segregation of duties, to ensure that these policies are
implemented.
(d) Identification and evaluation of business risks
The company has clear principles and procedures which are appropriate to a multinational electronics business.
These principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership but with devolved operating
responsibility as the framework for the exercise of accountability and control by the Board, its committees and
executive management. The Board directs activities in and allocates resources to the key areas of business
development, product strategy, research and development, manufacture and financial practice. The Board has
appointed a Technology Advisory Board to provide strategic technical advice to the company. This board comprises
leading, internationally respected electronics experts together with outstanding engineering talent from within the
company. Through these ongoing procedures, the Board is able to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks
which the group faces from time to time.
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2004 47 Corporate Governance
Statement
The Board confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it operated
during the year. The Board undertakes, on an ongoing basis, a review of all aspects of the company's internal control
procedures, and is able to report that the company has complied fully with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee
during the financial year ending 31 May 2004. This review is undertaken by the Board through the receipt and
consideration of regular monthly and other reports prepared by management on operational, strategic, organisational
and financial issues. A system of financial internal audit has been established whereby a programme of internal audit work
is carried out at the company's various locations by staff employed at other locations. The programme is designed to
focus on key controls and procedures in the financial system. Additionally, areas of operations other than finance are
audited periodically either by external agencies or through peer review to ensure compliance with group policies.
Constitution of the Board
The Board comprises four executive and five independent, non-executive directors. Short biographies of all of the
directors are set out on page 8. Professor John Roulston will be appointed as a director and Chief Executive Officer on
6 September 2004. The Board is engaged in selecting a suitable person to fill the position of Finance Director. The Board
considers that the balance of its constitution brings both independence and an appropriate balance of experience in
judging matters of strategy, performance, resources, investor relations, internal control and corporate governance.
R J Williams is the senior non-executive director. Each of the directors is proposed for re-election at the annual general
meeting at least every three years.
Board committees
The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nominations committee. The audit and
remuneration committees comprise all of the non-executive directors. The nominations committee comprises the
Chairman and all of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Professor J D Rhodes. Each of these committees
operates under terms of reference which have been established by the Board.
The audit committee meets at least three times a year to review the adequacy of the company's system of internal
control, accounting policies and financial reporting. The Finance Director and the auditors attend these meetings with
all other directors being invited to attend. Further, the audit committee meets with the auditors without executive
directors being present at least once during the year. The audit committee requires the auditors to report specifically on
any non-audit assignments which they have undertaken. This work is primarily assistance with United States income tax
compliance. The auditors do not carry out any consulting work for the company. Any non-audit work carried out by the
auditors requires the advance approval of the audit committee.
The remuneration committee's responsibilities include ensuring that the remuneration and service contract terms of the
executive directors and senior management are appropriate. The committee determines the allocation of all executive
share options.
The nominations committee's duties are confined to the approval, support or otherwise of appointments,
re-appointments and termination of employment or engagement of directors and the secretary of the company.
Relations with investors
Communications with investors are given high priority. The Chairman's statement on pages 2 to 4 includes a review of
the business and future developments. Further information is included in the operating review on page 5. There is
regular dialogue with institutional investors including presentations after the company's preliminary announcement of
the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their
participation. The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees are available
at the annual general meeting to answer questions. Information is also available to all investors by way of the company's
web site at www.filtronic.com
Going concern
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the directors have reviewed the budgeted cash flow and other
relevant information and have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing these financial statements.
48 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2004