 First Choice Holidays PLC
39
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Corporate Governance
The Company has complied throughout the year with 
the provisions of the Combined Code except for the
provisions in paragraph A3.2 relating to the proportion 
of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board of
Directors. Further details are given below.
Directors
The Board of Directors meets regularly and has a schedule
of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. 
All Directors receive written reports prior to each Board
meeting which enable them to make informed and
considered decisions on the business issues under
consideration. The Board has delegated authority to
Committees of the Board on other specific matters. The
executive management is delegated to the Chief Executive,
Executive Directors and certain other senior managers who
together form the Executive Committee, the membership 
of which is disclosed on page 79. Details of the Audit and
Nominations Committees are given below and details of 
the Remuneration Committee are given on pages 33 to 38. 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary and the Board of Directors 
has established a procedure for all Directors to take
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the
Company's expense. No such advice was sought in the 
year. The Company Secretary is also responsible for
ensuring Board procedures are followed and that new
Directors receive appropriate training on joining the Group.
We believe all six Non-Executive Directors bring
independent judgement to the Board although the Board
accepts that Richard Fain (refer to Note 30), Ian Clubb 
(for a full explanation see page 35) and Sim n Barcel  may
not be considered to be wholly independent. Ian Clubb 
and Sim n Barcel  were former Executive Directors of the
Company until 1 February 2000 and 30 August 2002
respectively. The Non-Executives considered to be wholly
independent are Tony Campbell (Senior Non-Executive
Director), Terry Green and Clare Chapman. The Combined
Code requires that a majority of Non-Executive Directors on
the Board are wholly independent. At present there exists 
no majority of wholly independent Non-Executives but the
Board intends to address this issue during the next year. 
Nominations Committee
The nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of
the Board of Directors to fill Executive and Non-Executive
vacancies on the Board of Directors is carried out by the
Nominations Committee, which comprises the Non-
Executive Chairman and three Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Nominations Committee is set 
out on page 79.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee operates under written terms of
reference to advise the Board in the discharge of its duties
with regard to the Group's accounts, the maintenance of
proper financial records and the external audit. In particular,
the Committee's duties include the review of management
procedures, which monitor the effectiveness of the systems
of accounting and internal controls.
The composition of the Audit Committee is set out on
page 79. The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and
Head of Internal Audit normally attend meetings but the
Committee also meets with the external auditors without
management present.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst
the role of management is to implement Board policies on
risk and control. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal controls
can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance
against material mis-statement or loss. Internal control
includes financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal
control (Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code (The Turnbull Report) published in
September 1999), the Board confirms that there is an
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the significant risks faced by the Group; that this has been
in place for the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts; and that this
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords
with the Turnbull Guidance. 
The control framework and key review processes in place
over the various businesses and geographical operations of
the Group are as follows:
  The Board sets corporate strategy and business
objectives. The Executive Committee and Divisional
management must integrate these objectives into their
operational and financial business plans for presentation
to the Board. Where areas for improvement in the
system of internal control are identified, the Board
considers the recommendations made by the Executive
Committee and the Audit Committee;
  The Executive Committee meet regularly together with
other senior executives to consider Group operational
and financial performance and business development.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf 
of the Executive Committee on significant changes in
the business and the external environment. The Finance
Director provides the Board with monthly financial
information which includes key performance and 
risk indicators; 
  The management of each business unit has been
charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying
the risks facing the unit and for putting in place
procedures to mitigate and monitor risks. For each
significant strategic business unit, a bi-annual self-
assessment of risk is conducted by the Directors and
senior management, supported by Internal Audit. This
involves the identification of key risks, an assessment of 
the potential impact of these risks and the degree to
Corporate Governance First Choice Holidays PLC
40
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Corporate Governance
which such risks are being managed. The risk
assessments are then considered periodically by
management and formally updated as appropriate.
Management report regularly on their review of risks
and how they are managed, to the Executive
Committee;
  The Group has an established Internal Audit function
which independently reviews the risk identification
procedures and control processes implemented by
management and reports to the Audit Committee three
times per year, or more frequently if appropriate;
  The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board reviews 
the effectiveness of the Group's risk management
process and refers significant risks to the Board for
consideration. The Audit Committee reviews: external
and internal audit work plans; reports by Internal Audit
on the Group's risk assessment process; and reports
from both internal and external audit on the system of
internal control, including the identification of material
weaknesses. The Audit Committee discusses with
management the actions taken in relation to all problem
areas identified. The Chairman of the Audit Committee
reports to the Board on the outcome of the Audit
Committee meetings held and the Board receives the
minutes of all such meetings; 
  The Treasury position of the Group, including cash
position and Foreign Exchange exposure, is managed
centrally and is the responsibility of the Group Finance
Director and Group Treasurer. Reports and forecasts are
submitted monthly to the Board;
  Financial forecasts are prepared routinely throughout the
year for review by the Board, which provide predicted
results with sensitivity analysis and include details of the
Group's ongoing compliance with its regulatory and
banking requirements. The Group has set investment
appraisal and authorisation procedures and capital
expenditure is reviewed against budgets which have
been approved by the Board; and
  There are supporting Group policies and employee
procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected
fraudulent activities. It is the aim of the Group to
employ and train staff and management of high
integrity and compliance with external regulation 
and internal policies is demanded from all employees.
Compliance with the Revised Combined Code
The Board has reviewed the provisions of the Revised
Combined Code, issued in July 2003, which will be
effective for the Company for the period commencing 
1 November 2003. As a result of this review, the Board 
is currently considering areas where it does not comply 
and will make any changes that it considers are 
compatible with the best interests of the Company. 
The appropriate additional disclosure required by the
Revised Combined Code will be made in the 2004 
Annual Report and Accounts when a full statement
detailing the Company's compliance with the Revised
Combined Code will be made.
Communications with shareholders
A regular programme of meetings exists with major
institutional shareholders to review the Group's performance
and prospects. Presentations are made at least twice yearly,
after the announcement of results, the detail of which,
together with Group financial reports and announcements,
can be accessed via the Group's website,
www.firstchoiceholidaysplc.com. There is also an
opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman 
and other Directors (including the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committees) at the 
Annual General Meeting. 
At general meetings:
  the Company prepares separate resolutions on each
substantially separate issue and does not combine
resolutions together inappropriately;
  a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available for
inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings; and
  the Annual Report & Accounts is laid before the
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance
continued