 29 FKI plc Annual report 2004
Corporate governance
The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining the
highest possible standards of corporate governance and during
the year followed the principles set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code.
With the exception of the notice periods in certain directors'
service contracts, the directors consider that throughout the
year ended 31 March 2004 the Company complied fully with
the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
However, by 31 December 2004, the notice periods of all
executive directors' service contracts will have been reduced 
to one year.
This statement on corporate governance, together with 
the Remuneration report, provides a commentary on 
how the Company complied with the principles included 
in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board
The directors supervise the management of the business and
the affairs of the Company and see their prime responsibility 
as being to determine the broad strategy of the Group and 
to ensure its implementation with a view to enhancing the
prosperity of the Group and its shareholders over time.
The Board currently comprises four executive and five 
non-executive directors, and their names are listed on page 28.
The Board has reviewed the position of its non-executive
directors and has determined that they are all independent in
character and judgement in accordance with the guidance as 
set out in the Combined Code. Mr R P Edey has been the senior
independent director throughout the year.
The Board meets at least six times each year with additional
meetings as required. All directors receive regular information
on the Group's operational and financial performance and the
Board has reserved certain items for its review and approval,
including the annual and interim results, the strategy of the
Company , the annual profit plan, corporate governance, internal
control and risk management. It also makes high level decisions
regarding acquisitions and divestments, and sets policies on,
amongst other things, remuneration, health and safety , and the
environment.
The Company Secretary is appointed by and is responsible to the
Board and all directors have access to his advice and services.
Directors may obtain independent professional advice if
necessary , at the Company's expense. Formal agendae, papers 
and reports are supplied to directors in a timely manner, prior 
to Board meetings. Briefings are also provided at other times, for
example, through operational visits and business presentations.
The Company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive each having
their own separate responsibilities. Essentially , the Chairman is
responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Chief
Executive is responsible for all operational matters.
The directors may at any time appoint an additional director.
A formal selection process is carried out, making use of
external agencies in the selection of suitable candidates where 
it appears necessary or appropriate. Upon the appointment of 
a new director, relevant training is provided as required.
Any director so appointed holds office until the next annual
general meeting and is eligible for reappointment at that
meeting. Following such appointment, the Articles of
Association require each director to retire by rotation and seek
re-election at least every three years.
Board Committees
The Board has appointed the following principal Committees:
Audit Committee - The Audit Committee is chaired 
by Mr R P Edey and its membership comprises all the 
non-executive directors. It meets at least twice a year and 
its primary tasks are to receive regular reports from the 
Group's external auditors and the outsourced internal audit
function, and to review the preliminary results, interim
information and annual financial statements before they 
are presented to the Board, concentrating particularly on
accounting policies and compliance, areas of management
judgement and estimates, and the monitoring of the controls
which are in place to ensure the integrity of the financial
information to be reported to shareholders.The Committee 
also discusses internal control issues, and conducts a review of 
the remit of the outsourced internal audit function, including 
its authority, resources and scope of work.The Committee 
gives advice to the Board concerning the appointment and
remuneration of external auditors and sets the policy on 
their engagement and remuneration for non-audit work.
Remuneration Committee - This Committee meets at least
twice a year, and consists of all the non-executive directors 
with Mr C R N Clark as Chairman. Its key role is to make
recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework 
of executive remuneration and its cost, and to determine
specific remuneration packages for each of the executive
directors, including pension rights and compensation
payments.The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to
ensure that the executive directors are both highly motivated
and fairly rewarded for their contributions to the Group's
overall performance. Further details of the Committee's work
and of the directors' emoluments and interests are set out in
the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 33 to 41.
Nominations Committee - The Nominations Committee
consists of the Chairman of the Board and all the remaining
non-executive directors. It meets when necessary to make
recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments
and also to advise generally on issues relating to Board
composition and balance.
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee
meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Number of Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
meetings 7231
Attendance
K Orrell-Jones7231
R P Edey 7231
J A Biles 7 n/a n/a n/a
C R N Clark6231
R L Gott 7 n/a n/a n/a
P Heiden 7 n/a n/a n/a
Sir Michael 
Hodgkinson6231
S D Jones 7 n/a n/a n/a
C Matthews
+
511 n/a
J S Rodewig
*
422 n/a
+From date of appointment.
*Up to date of cessation of directorship. 30 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate governance
Communications with shareholders
In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is
disseminated in order to maintain an orderly market in the
ordinary shares of the Company, the Company maintains a
regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and
analysts, particularly following trading updates and results
announcements.Trading updates, results announcements and
additional Company information are also posted on the
Company's website, which is regularly updated.
The Board members attend the annual general meeting and,
in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees are available to answer questions.
At annual general meetings, separate resolutions are proposed
on each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy
votes received for and against each resolution is announced.
Notices of annual general meetings are sent to shareholders 
at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Financial reporting
The directors, who have sole responsibility for the preparation
and presentation of this report and accounts and other price
sensitive public reports, seek to prepare those reports in a way
that represents a balanced and understandable assessment of 
the Group's position and prospects.
Internal control and risk management system
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility to 
safeguard the Company's assets and shareholders' investment.
In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors
on the Combined Code  (the Turnbull Guidance ), the Board
of FKI has established a risk management policy and system
which are an integral part of the management's approach to
delivery of the strategic and business objectives.The risk
management system is a systematic process designed to
identify, assess, treat, manage and communicate business 
risks. It also provides a process for the escalation and delegation
of risks to the appropriate level in the operations and ensures
that actions are properly defined, resourced and effected 
to give confidence in achievement of business objectives.
The system operates throughout FKI and is applied equally 
to the operating units and corporate functions.
Risks arise from a wide variety of internal and external 
sources and can be associated with customer requirements,
competitor actions, regulations and political actions.They may
also arise from the products and services sold by the Group 
and the processes used by operations as part of their normal
activities. Management regularly carries out risk assessments
covering risks in strategy, risks to achieving commitments
contained in contracts with customers, risks in organisational
change, risks associated with major projects and risks involving
potential acquisitions.
The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised risks,
the probability of them happening and their impact together
with the associated action plans to mitigate them. Operating
unit and corporate function managers are responsible for these
action plans and their progress is reported at least twice a year
to the FKI Risk Committee as part of their performance review.
The Risk Committee is accountable for the risk management
system and for reporting key risks and associated mitigating
actions to the Board through the Audit Committee and meets 
at least twice a year. It is chaired by the Chief Executive and 
the other members are the senior executive management.
The Finance Director is responsible for the implementation 
of the risk management process throughout the Group 
and the compilation of the group risk register which records 
all risks which management considers to be significant,
together with the appropriate mitigating actions.The risk
registers are reviewed with the three year business plans in
August/September and with the annual budget in
February/March. These reviews cover actions completed 
and the status of ongoing actions.
An independent review of the risk process was completed 
in October 2003 and concluded that the risk process was in
compliance with the Turnbull guidelines. However, it was decided
that a number of improvements could be made to the process to
help meet business objectives.These recommendations for
improving the system have now been implemented and are
being embedded into the normal business processes, including
approval of tenders, capital expenditure and business projects.
Lessons learnt from the implementation and operation of the 
risk process are being fed back and will be further reviewed in
future to ensure continuous improvement.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.The Board
has reviewed the key risks inherent in the Group, together with
the operating, financial and compliance controls that have been
implemented to mitigate those key risks. However, any system
of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an organisation structure with clearly defined
lines of responsibility, accountability and delegated authority
and with clear local operating autonomy within a framework 
of central management, stated corporate aims and objectives.
The operating performance of each business is regularly
reviewed by the executive directors, and progress is monitored
against business plans, utilising established procedures for
business planning, budgeting, capital expenditure approval 
and treasury management.