 Forth Ports PLC 
Annual Report & Accounts 2002
24 Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report
The following paragraphs describe how the
Company has applied the principles concerning
Corporate Governance in Section 1 of the
Combined Code and the Turnbull Committee
Guidance on Internal Control.
The Combined Code - Application of Principles
A. The Board of Directors
1. The Board of Directors comprises five
Executive Directors and four Non-Executive
Directors. Mr. H. M. Thompson retired with
effect from the Annual General Meeting on
10th May 2002. The Non-Executive Directors,
who are independent of management, bring
an independent and balanced view to the
Board. The Company has a Non-Executive
Chairman and a separate Chief Executive. 
2. The Board meets eight times every year and
as necessary for any matters arising at other
times. The Board has a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
At each Board Meeting, the Board considers
reports from each of the Executive Directors
covering his area of responsibility. The Board
reviews the strategy of the Group annually.
3. The Company Secretary is responsible for
ensuring that Board procedures and 
applicable rules and regulations are observed.
All Directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary. There is
an agreed procedure for Directors to take
independent professional advice, if necessary,
at the Company's expense. In addition, 
the Company Secretary ensures that the
Directors are fully aware of their duties 
and responsibilities as Directors and that 
they receive appropriate training.
4. The Nomination Committee comprising the
Non-Executive Directors and chaired by the
Non-Executive Chairman, all in terms of the
Combined Code, is convened as and when
required to make recommendations to the
Board on all new Board appointments.
5. Mr. G.H. Webster has been appointed as the
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
6. An Annual General Meeting is held every
calendar year at which all Directors submit
themselves for re-election at least every 
three years. 
B. Directors' Remuneration 
1. Reference is made to the Remuneration
Report which sets out the composition of the
Remuneration Committee, the Company's
remuneration policy for Directors and details 
of such remuneration (including bonus schemes
and pensions) for each Director, and the
Committee's compliance with all relevant
sections of the Combined Code.
2. All Executive Directors are on one-year rolling
contracts except where there is a takeover or
merger in which case the notice period is two
years (other than for Mr. P . D. Glading whose
notice period remains at one year).
C. Relations with Shareholders
1. The Company encourages regular dialogue with
institutional shareholders based on a mutual
understanding of objectives.
2. The Board also uses the Annual General
Meeting to communicate with private investors
and encourage their participation.
3. The Company, at the 2003 Annual General
Meeting, will ensure that the level of proxies 
for and against each resolution is intimated to
shareholders after each resolution has been
dealt with at the Annual General Meeting.
D. Financial Reporting and compliance with
the Turnbull Committee Guidance on
Internal Control (the Guidance )
1. Internal Control
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the
Group's system of internal control in accordance
with the Guidance throughout the year and up
to the date of this report. It should be recognised
that such a system can provide only reasonable,
and not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The key features of the
system which have been established are 
as follows: Forth Ports PLC 
Annual Report & Accounts 2002
25 Corporate Governance Report
  Control Environment
The Group's control environment is the
responsibility of the Group's Directors 
and managers at all levels. The Group's
organisational structure has clear lines 
of responsibility. Operating and financial
responsibility for subsidiary companies 
is delegated to the local Boards.
  Identification of Business Risks and
compliance with the Guidance
Throughout last year, the Group complied
with the Guidance. The Group Risk and
Insurance Manager oversees the procedures
involved in the identification of business
risks and compliance with the Guidance.
The Board regularly reviews the process 
of identifying, evaluating and managing 
the Group's key risks. This allows them to
take a view on the effectiveness of these
procedures to facilitate an ongoing process
of reviewing and assessing the key risks
facing each of the Group's businesses 
and enhancing the systems which manage
the key risks identified. All subsidiaries are
required to assess key risks and related
control and monitoring procedures on an
ongoing basis. The Board monitors this
process on a regular basis. 
  Major Corporate Information Systems
The Group operates a comprehensive
budgeting and financial reporting system
which, as a matter of routine, compares
actual results to budget. Management
accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.
Variances from budget are thoroughly
investigated and revisions to forecasts 
are made twice during the year. Cash flow
projections are prepared monthly and cover
a rolling twelve month period to ensure 
that the Group has adequate funds.
  Main Control Procedures
Divisional management establishes control
procedures in response to each of the key
risks identified. Standard financial control
procedures operate throughout the Group
to ensure the integrity of the Group's
accounts. The Board has established
procedures for authorisation of capital
expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has an internal audit function
which carries out systematic reviews of the
financial control procedures.
  Monitoring System used by the Board
The Board reviews and approves budgets
and monitors the Group's performance
against those budgets monthly. The Board
receives reports on a regular basis from the
Audit Committee. 
2. Audit Committee
This Committee, chaired by the Non-Executive
Chairman, comprises all the Non-Executive
Directors. It meets routinely three times a year
with other meetings held as necessary. The
Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the
Committee. The Internal Auditor, Chief
Executive, Finance Director and the External
Auditors attend the meetings. The minutes 
are circulated to all attendees. The Terms 
of Reference are to liaise with the External
Auditors on all matters relating to the Group
accounts, to review the work carried out by 
the Internal Auditor and to review the Group's
compliance with Accounting Standards, 
Stock Exchange and legal requirements.
3. Directors' Responsibilities for the Accounts
Company law requires the Directors to prepare
accounts for each financial year which give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and the Group and of the profit or
loss for that period. In preparing those accounts,
the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently
  make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent
  state whether applicable accounting
standards have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and
explained in the accounts
  prepare the accounts on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the Company will continue in business Forth Ports PLC 
Annual Report & Accounts 2002
26 Corporate Governance Report
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the
Group to enable them to ensure that the
accounts comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Forth
Ports PLC website is the responsibility of the
Directors; the work carried out by the auditors
does not involve consideration of these
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept
no responsibility for any changes that may
have occurred to the accounts since they were
initially presented on the website. Legislation in
the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of accounts may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
4. Going Concern
The Directors, having made enquiries, have a
reasonable expectation that the Company and
the Group have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable
future, and that therefore it is appropriate to
continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the accounts.
The Combined Code and the Guidance -
Compliance with principles 
The Group has been in full compliance with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code throughout the year, with the exception of
provision B1.7 as (other than for Mr. P .D. Glading)
the period of Executive Director contracts exceeds
one year in a takeover or merger situation as
detailed in Section B2 on page 24 and on page 27.
By Order of the Board
J.A. Tothill
Company Secretary
24th March 2003