 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
66
BOARD OF DIRECTORS LEADERSHIP . QUALITY. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. BOARD OF DIRECTORS
67
Alberto Baill res
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, 78  
Chairman, Nominations Committee; 
Remuneration Committee 
Mr Baill res has been on the board of Industrias Pe oles since 1962 and has 
served as Chairman since 1967. The Baill res family first acquired an interest in 
Pe oles in 1962 and Mr Baill res is currently the controlling shareholder. In ad-
dition to Pe oles, as part of the BAL group of companies, Mr Baill res has in-
terests in Grupo Palacio de Hierro, a chain of department stores mainly located 
in Mexico City, Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading Mexican insurance company, 
Grupo Profuturo, a pensions and annuities business, and other businesses relat-
ing to financial services and agriculture.
Mr Baill res became non-independent Non-Executive Chairman on 15 April 2008. 
Mr Baill res holds numerous other board appointments, being the Chairman 
of the Board of Directors of Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, Grupo 
Palacio de Hierro, Cr dito Afianzador, and a member of the Board of Fomento 
Econ mico Mexicano (FEMSA), a leading international beverage producer and 
distributor, Grupo Televisa, Grupo Kuo/Dine and BBVA Bancomer. Mr. Baill res 
is also currently president of Grupo BAL and President of the Board of Trustees 
of Asociaci n Mexicana de Cultura, A.C. and Instituto Tecnol gico Aut nomo de 
M xico (ITAM). In addition, Mr Baill res is a member of the Consejo Mexicano de 
Hombres de Negocios and also of Fundaci n para las Letras Mexicanas, A.C.
Jaime Lomel n
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 75
HSECR Committee
Mr Lomel n spent 36 years at Pe oles and held the position of Chief Executive 
Officer for 21 years. He previously served as group vice-president of the metals 
and chemicals division for four years. Mr Lomel n holds a bachelor of science 
degree in chemical engineering from the Universidad Nacional Aut noma de 
M xico (UNAM) and postgraduate studies in Business Administration in the 
University of Wisconsin and Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.  FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
68
Lord Cairns
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR, 70
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Lord Cairns was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008. He is chairman of Zain 
Africa B.V. (formerly Celtel International BV) and the Charities Aid Foundation and 
is a board member of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation. He has previously served as 
chairman of Actis LLP, CDC Group, Allied Zurich and BAT Industries after a career 
with SG Warburg where he had become deputy chairman and CEO. He gradu-
ated from Trinity College, Cambridge.
Fernando Ruiz
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 66
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees
Mr Ruiz was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008. He is a former managing part-
ner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., tax advisers and consultants. He is a mem-
ber of the Asociaci n Mexicana de Contadores P blicos. He is currently president of 
the Finance Committee of the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial, as well as an adviser 
to this organisation. Mr Ruiz holds numerous board appointments, including Kim-
berly Clark de Mexico, Mexichem, Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, Grupo Mexico, Em-
presas ICA and the Mexican Stock Exchange. Mr Ruiz graduated from the Universidad 
Nacional Aut noma de M xico (UNAM) with a degree in public accounting.
Javier Fern ndez
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 54
Nominations and HSECR Committees
Mr Fern ndez Carbajal was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008. He is Chairman 
of the Board of Primero Fianzas, a private surety company, since March 2007. He 
has been engaged as a consultant for public and private investment transactions 
and is an active wealth management advisor since 2002. For the past 27 years, Mr 
Fern ndez Carbajal has held senior executive positions at leading Mexican companies, 
including 14 years of experience in financial services. He joined Grupo BBVA Bancomer, 
Mexico's largest financial services company in 1991 as Executive Vice President Stra-
tegic Planning and successively served as Deputy President for Systems and Opera-
tions and Chief Information Officer, Deputy President and Chief Financial Officer, and 
in 1999 was named President. Mr Fern ndez Carbajal is a member of the board of 
directors of FEMSA, a leading Latin American beverage company; of Grupo Aeropor-
tuario del Pac fico, Mexico's largest airport operator and of VISA, Inc. the world's larg-
est electronic payment network. Mr Fern ndez Carbajal has a degree in Mechanical 
and Electrical engineering from the Instituto Tecnol gico y de Estudios Superiores de 
Monterrey (ITESM) and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Rafael MacGregor
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 49
Chairman, HSECR Committee
Mr MacGregor was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008. He has been a corpo-
rate director in T cnica Administrativa BAL since 1999. He is a member of the board 
of directors and a member of the executive committee of Industrias Pe oles, Grupo 
Nacional Provincial, Grupo Palacio de Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Mexicanos 
Casa de Bolsa, Cr dito Afianzador, Compa  a Mexicana de Garant as, Profuturo GNP , 
Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, M dica Integral, Bal-Ondeo and ITAM. Previous po-
sitions held by Mr MacGregor have included CEO of Valores Mexicanos Casa de Bolsa 
(from 1994 to 1999); various positions, including corporate director, managing direc-
tor and manager and vice president of mutual funds at Grupo Financiero Inverlat 
(between 1985 and 1994), manager of investment strategies of Operadora de Bolsa, 
and investment assistant of Casa de Bolsa Banamex (from 1982 to 1983). Since 1999, 
Mr MacGregor has been a member of the board of Mexican Stock Exchange and, 
since 2005, he has been vice chairman of Mercado Mexicano de Derivados (MexDer). 
Mr MacGregor holds a bachelor of science degree in business administration from 
ITAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University. LEADERSHIP . QUALITY. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH.
69
Juan Bordes
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 62
Mr Bordes was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008. Mr Bordes has been 
corporate director in T cnica Administrativa BAL since 1979. He was the CEO of 
Artes Gr ficas Unidas from 1984 until 1986 and CEO of F bricas de Papel Loreto 
y Pe a Pobre from 1986 until 1989. Since 1989, Mr Bordes has been a member 
of the board of directors and a member of the executive committee of each of 
Industrias Pe oles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Palacio de Hierro, Grupo Pro-
futuro, Valores Mexicanos Casa de Bolsa, Cr dito Afianzador, Compa  a Mexicana 
de Garant as, Afore Profuturo GNP , Profuturo GNP Pensiones, M dica Integral, Bal-
Ondeo, Albacor and a member of the Board of Trustees of ITAM. Mr Bordes holds 
a bachelor of science degree in chemical engineering from Universidad Nacional 
Aut noma de M xico (UNAM) and attended the Stanford Executive Program at 
the University of Stanford. He also attended the Business Management Course at 
the Instituto Panamericano de Alta Direcci n de Empresas (IPADE).
Arturo Fern ndez
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 56
Mr Fern ndez was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008. He is a member of the 
board of directors and a member of the executive committee of each of Industrias 
Pe oles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, El Palacio de Hierro, Valores 
Mexicanos Casa de Bolsa and Cr dito Afianzador. Mr Fern ndez is also a member 
of the board of directors of Grupo Bimbo, Minera Penmont, Qu mica del Rey and 
Tecnolog a del Agua (TECSA) and an alternate director of FEMSA. Mr Fern ndez has 
been the rector of ITAM, an independent not-for-profit higher education institution, 
for 16 years. He has also previously served as the head of the tax policy office at the 
Mexican Ministry of Finance and as head of the economic deregulation office at the 
Mexican Ministry of Trade. Mr Fern ndez holds a bachelor of economics degree from 
ITAM as well as a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago.
Guy Wilson
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 61
Chairman, Audit Committee
Guy Wilson joined the Board on 1 July 2008 following his retirement from Ernst 
& Young LLP. He joined Ernst & Young in 1967 and became a partner in 1979. 
Since 1972, he has specialised in corporate transactions covering IPOs, public 
fund raisings, acquisitions, disposals and defences against hostile bids. From 
1989 to 1991, he was seconded to HM Treasury to assist with the privatizations 
of the UK water and electricity industries and Scottish electricity. From 2000, 
he primarily, but not exclusively, concentrated on transactions in the financial 
services sector.
Fernando Solana
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 79
Member of the Audit Committee from 18 February 2009
Mr Solana was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2009. He is currently Presi-
dent of Solana Consultores, Chairman of the Mexican Council on Foreign Rela-
tions and Chairman of the Mexican Fund for Education and Development. He is 
also an Associate Consultant of Anal tica Consultores Asociados as well as being 
a member of the boards of the Euroamerica Foundation in Madrid and the In-
stitute of the Americas linked to the University of California in San Diego. He is 
a member of the Advisory Board of the Latin American Parliament. Mr Solana 
served in Mexican Government as Minister of Trade (1976-1977), Minister of Edu-
cation (1977-1982 and 1993-1994) and Minister of Foreign Affairs (1988-1993). 
Mr Solana became President and CEO of Banco Nacional de Mexico from 1982-
1988. He served as Chairman of the Mexican Banking Association (1986-1987). He 
was a Senator in the Mexican Parliament from 1994 to 2000. He was a member 
of the boards of the Mexican American Foundation for Science and the Canning 
House in London. Mr Solana studied Civil Engineering, Philosophy, Public Policy 
and Administration at the National University of Mexico.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS