 23187-04  28 March 2014 11:27 AM Proof 7
19
www.futuramedical.com
Stock Code: FUM
About Futura Medical Financial Statements Governance
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman (Chairman ), 
a Chief Executive, two independent Non-Executive Directors 
and two further Executive Directors. The Chairman and the 
Non-Executive Directors receive part of their remuneration in the 
form of shares but this does not constitute a material business 
relationship with the Group and is not considered to impair the 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors. The Board is 
satisfied that it has an appropriate mix of experience in its Non-
Executive Directors. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are intended to remain separate.
The Board retains full control of the Group with day-to-day 
operational control delegated to the Executive Directors. The 
full Board meets bi-monthly and on any other occasions it 
considers necessary. During 2013, there were 16 meetings 
of the full Board, four of the Remuneration Committee, two 
of the Audit Committee and one meeting of the Nominations 
Committee. All meetings were fully attended by their constituent 
Directors.
Board responsibility
The Board is responsible for approving interim and annual 
financial statements, formulating and monitoring Group strategy, 
approving financial plans and reviewing performance, as well 
as complying with legal, regulatory and corporate governance 
matters. There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Board is committed to maintaining appropriate standards of 
corporate governance.
The Board has sought to comply with a number of provisions of 
the Code in so far as it considers them to be appropriate to the 
Group' s size and nature. This is considered by the Board to be 
reasonable and does not compromise the overall principles of 
corporate governance which the Board strongly supports.
There have been no material changes to our corporate 
governance processes following our annual review.
The Board considers that the remuneration of Executive 
Directors should include a performance related element which 
is almost entirely based on the award of share options or other 
share-based incentives as recommended by the Remuneration 
Committee and set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
14 to 18.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors, 
Jonathan Freeman and Lisa Arnold, and is chaired by Jonathan 
Freeman as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
It meets as required and specifically to review the Interim 
Report and Annual Report and to consider the suitability and 
monitor the effectiveness of the internal control processes. 
There were two Audit Committee meetings during 2013. The 
Audit Committee reviews the findings of the external auditors 
and reviews accounting policies and material accounting 
judgements.
The independence and effectiveness of the external auditor 
is reviewed annually and audit partners are rotated every five 
years. The possibility of undertaking an audit tender process is 
considered on a regular basis. The Audit Committee (with no 
Executive Director present) meets at least once per calendar 
year with the auditors to discuss their independence and 
objectivity, the Annual Report, any audit issues arising, internal 
control processes, appointment and fee levels and any other 
appropriate matters. As well as providing audit related services, 
the auditors also provide taxation advice. The fees in respect 
of audit and tax services are disclosed in Note 4 of the Notes 
to the Group Financial Statements. Fees for non-audit services 
paid to the auditors are not deemed to be of such significance 
to them as to impair their independence and therefore the Audit 
Committee considers that the objectivity and independence of 
the auditors is safeguarded.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are set out in  
the Investors/Governance section on the Group' s website at 
www.futuramedical.com. 23187-04  28 March 2014 11:27 AM Proof 7
20
Futura Medical plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
Corporate Governance (continued)
Internal control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
the Group' s system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure of the 
achievement of business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee continues to monitor and review the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control and report to the 
Board when appropriate with recommendations.
The annual review of internal control and financial reporting 
procedures did not highlight any issues warranting the 
introduction of an internal audit function. It was concluded, 
given the current size and transparency of the operations of the 
Group, that an internal audit function was not required.
The main features of the internal control system are outlined 
below:
 	 A control environment exists through the close 
management of the business by the Executive Directors. 
The Group has a defined organisational structure with 
delineated approval limits. Controls are implemented and 
monitored by the Executive Directors.
 	 The Board has a schedule of matters expressly 
reserved for its consideration and this schedule includes 
acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects, 
treasury and risk management policies and approval of 
budgets.
 	 The Group utilises a detailed budgeting and forecasting 
system. Detailed budgets are prepared annually by the 
Executive Directors before submission to the Board for 
approval. Forecasts are updated at least quarterly to 
reflect changes in the business and are monitored by 
the Board including future cash flow projections. Actual 
results are monitored against annual budgets in detail on 
a monthly basis, with variances highlighted to the Board.
 	 Financial risks are identified and evaluated for each major 
transaction for consideration by the Board and senior 
management.
 	 Standard financial control procedures are operated 
throughout the Group to ensure that the assets of the 
Group are safeguarded and that proper accounting 
records are maintained.
 	 A risk review process is in operation whereby the Chief 
Executive and Finance Director present a report to the 
Board each year on the key business risks.
Going concern
As disclosed in the Strategic Report on page 28 the Group 
financial statements have been prepared on the going concern 
basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the two independent 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman and is chaired by 
Lisa Arnold. 
The Nominations Committee monitors the requirements of the 
Group in respect of Board composition as the Group evolves 
and with regard to succession planning. There was one meeting 
during 2013. The terms of reference of the Nominations 
Committee are set out in the Investors/Governance section on 
the Group' s website at www.futuramedical.com. 23187-04  28 March 2014 11:27 AM Proof 7
21
www.futuramedical.com
Stock Code: FUM
About Futura Medical Financial Statements Governance
Employees
At 31 December 2013, the Group' s employees comprised: 
three Executive Directors and three full-time and one part-time 
members of staff, all of whom are employed by the subsidiary.
The Executive Directors keep staff informed of the progress and 
development of the Group regularly through formal and informal 
meetings and employee feedback is encouraged. The Group 
has a policy of offering share options or other share-based 
incentives to all eligible employees with due consideration to the 
level of dilution to shareholders.
The Group does not discriminate between employees and 
prospective employees on the grounds of age, race, disability, 
religion or gender.
The Board recognises its obligation towards its employees to 
provide a safe and healthy working environment. The Group 
complies with health and safety legislation including conducting 
regular inspections and risk assessments.
Environmental, social and community matters
As a result of the size and nature of our operations, the impact 
of the Group' s operations on the local community and the 
environment is not considered to be significant. Recycling 
of office supplies is undertaken where possible. The Group 
operates in a highly regulated industry and clinical trials are 
conducted in compliance with regulatory requirements. 
The Group undertakes regular reviews of corporate social 
responsibility matters with policy updates and implements 
improvements to its operations where identified.
Relationship with shareholders
The Directors seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives 
between the Group and its shareholders. The Group reports 
formally to shareholders in its Interim Report and Annual Report 
setting out details of its activities. In addition, the Group keeps 
shareholders informed of events and progress through the 
issue of regulatory news in accordance with the AIM Rules for 
Companies (AIM Rules ) of the London Stock Exchange. The 
Chief Executive and Finance Director meet with institutional 
shareholders following interim and final results. The Group 
also maintains investor relations pages and other information 
regarding the business, its products and activities on its website 
at www.futuramedical.com.
The Annual Report is made available to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the Annual General Meeting (AGM ) 
along with notice of the AGM. Directors are required to attend 
the AGM, unless unable to do so for personal reasons or due to 
pressing commercial commitments, and shareholders are given 
the opportunity to vote on each separate resolution proposed  
at the AGM. The Group counts all proxy votes and will indicate 
the level of proxies lodged for each resolution, after it has first 
been dealt with by a show of hands.
Derek Martin 
Secretary