 23005-04 - Proof 9 - 27-03-2014
Key Risks & Uncertainties
In common with all businesses Alkane faces risks and uncertainties that could impact on the achievement of 
its core strategic objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management, internal control and business continuity and carries 
out regular and continuous reviews to identify, evaluate and prioritise risks and to ensure that appropriate 
controls are in place to manage these effectively.
On an annual basis a review of the risk profile of the business is carried out and a risk register and action plan 
are produced.
The Board considers that the principal risks to Alkane achieving its strategic objectives are as follows:
Risks Mitigation
The Market
The market price of electricity falls. The 
Group's profitability is affected by factors 
beyond the Group's control, such as a fall 
in the market price of electricity or cheaper 
competition from rival fuels.
The Group constantly monitors market data and prices to obtain 
the best market prices available. Forward contract placing 
reduces volatility of future income streams.
Geological
Risk of unsuccessful drilling operations 
or reserves could be less than originally 
envisaged or problems relating to extraction 
experienced during the operational stage.
The Group undertakes significant and thorough research, 
engaging industry experts and specialists before committing to 
initial development of sites.
Constant site monitoring allows early detection of problems during 
the project timeline and the design and flexibility of the Group's 
equipment and business diversity allows for the redistribution of 
existing assets to other profit streams.
The Group's diversity into other income streams (power response 
and the design, build and operation of power plant facilities) is 
reducing the Group's reliance on the single income stream of 
coal mine methane.
Energy Policy
Uncertainty around the UK Energy Policy 
could result in significant changes in the 
business environment in which the Group 
operates.
The Group carries out lobbying directly and through trade 
organisations. By remaining agile and flexible the Group seeks 
to take advantage from uncertainty, for example developing the 
power response business to meet growing demand.
New Licences
Failure to obtain new licences.
Government restrictions on existing/future 
licences or increasing competition from 
other operators could affect the pipeline of 
future coal mine methane projects.
Continuous and vigorous research by our highly skilled and 
experienced team, aided by industry experts and specialists, 
ensures the Group has up-to-date information on upcoming 
licence/site opportunities. A consistent high level of performance 
on all projects including licence commitments assists 
acceptability for future government licences.
Legal
The Group's failure to obtain planning 
permissions or keep within planning 
conditions could impact on their 
effectiveness to complete projects or 
produce delays to completion of  
the project.
The Group employs strong commercial and technical 
management on all projects with regular project management 
reviews with both partner organisations and local authority 
representatives. 
In addition to the risk factors discussed above, further information about the business, its strategy, products 
and markets and financial risks is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 37 to 39.
www.alkane.co.uk Stock code: ALK 23005-04 - Proof 9 - 27-03-2014
Alkane Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Corporate Social Responsibility
Including Health and Safety and the Environment
As the established leaders in the production of power from  
coal mine methane ( CMM'), with a growing portfolio of energy 
parks and a pipeline of future opportunities, Alkane places  
great emphasis on the responsible and sustainable nature  
of our operations.
A responsibility that covers not 
only key operational areas such 
as health and safety and training 
and developing our people, but 
extends to carbon management, 
ecology and a positive 
community impact.
Our Values
 	 Integrity
 	 Social Responsibiliity 
 	 Environmental Stewardship
 	 People
 	 Safety
Living Our Values
Our values are not new to the 
Group, they have been part of 
 the way we do business' over 
many years and continue at the 
heart of our business growth and 
development. They help shape 
what we do, how we engage with 
our stakeholders and the way 
we measure our environmental 
and social impacts. Corporate 
responsibility within the Group is 
overseen by our internal Safety 
Health Environment and Quality 
(SHEQ) working group, which 
meets bi-monthly. Membership 
of the working group covers 
all operational aspects of our 
business.
Integrity
At Alkane we look to bring a spirit 
of transparency and collaboration 
to all we do. Regular updates 
to the investment community, 
engagement with communities 
in relation to any development 
or operation which may impact 
them and, as the leading 
exponents of coal mine methane 
in the UK, a sharing of best 
practice and information with all 
interested stakeholders.
As UK energy requirements are 
continuously looking for increased 
and diverse energy sources, we 
are delighted that we are taking a 
potentially dangerous gas, found 
in abundance in disused coal 
mines and turning it into an energy 
source. We remain interested in the 
potential of aneorobic digestion 
and ground source heat as other 
alternative energy sources and 
hope to build further capacity in 
these technologies in future years.
Social Responsibility
Operating at 24 locations across 
the UK, often in disadvantaged 
areas which previously had 
benefited from an active coal 
mining industry we are keen to 
make a positive impact wherever 
we can. Alkane Energy is a small 
to medium enterprise (SME) so  
we remain limited in our resources 
but are keen to engage wherever  
we can. 
Over the last 12 months donations 
have been made to:
 	 John Eastwood Hospice
 	 Calverton Miners' Welfare
 	 The Britannia Leek & District Show
 	 Maltby F .C. 7-11 year olds
 	 Winnington Park RFC Under 13s
 	 Nottinghamshir e Guided W alks 
Partnership
As a Group we are committed to 
supporting small local initiatives 
which may struggle to attract 
wider charitable support but bring 
benefit to the communities they 
serve. All donations are approved 
by the SHEQ committee.
Environmental Stewardship
Our  duty of care' for the 
environment covers a range of our 
operational impacts. Our main 
raw material in the production of 
power from coal mines is methane, 
a gas 21 times more detrimental 
to the atmosphere than carbon 
dioxide. In using this gas for a 
positive purpose our carbon 
impact remains positive. Our 
acquisition of Maltby this year is 
another excellent example of this 
with 11MW of production capacity 
achieved from methane which 
would have otherwise escaped to 
the atmosphere.
Alkane Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
18/19
Our 
Performance 23005-04 - Proof 9 - 27-03-2014
www.alkane.co.uk
Overall Our Impact On The 
Environment Is Positive:
Our positive impact on climate 
change,based primarily on 
offsetting the impact of methane 
being released to the atmosphere 
by using it to produce energy, 
is a significant one. As shown in 
the diagram our overall climate 
change offset is 847,705 tonnes 
of CO
2
 equivalent, this equates 
removing 169,062 average luxury 
cars from UK roads every year. 
Additionally, we have invested this 
year in solar power to improve our 
operational use of energy and are 
encouraged by the initial results. 
Since becoming operational 
in June 2013 our installed solar 
panels have generated over 
25,000KWh of power, in line with 
our expectations and further 
investment is planned.
Similarly our pilot programme on 
ground source heat is progressing 
well at our Markham site. 
Additionally we are also keen to 
ensure that our Energy Parks do 
not adversely affect the ecology 
of the areas where we operate. A 
recent survey of bat populations 
at three of our Nottinghamshire 
sites showed that our operations 
caused no adverse effects on bat 
colonies in the area. 
Image: Cheque presentation to the Nottinghamshire Guided Walks Partnership in support   
of their free booklets to the local community.
Alkane's contribution 
has been invaluable 
in getting our 
brochure to a wider 
audience .
Brian Cluff 
Nottingham Guided Walks Partnership
Our Carbon Impact
=
124,330 
tonnes of C02
Alkane carbon offset
847,705
Alkane positive impact
723,375
www.alkane.co.uk Stock code: ALK 23005-04 - Proof 9 - 27-03-2014
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
People
The expertise and knowledge held 
by our people is crucial to the 
Group and has driven much of 
our success. Through expanding 
our team, we have increased our 
employee numbers by 40% in the 
last three years, and by committing 
to the training and development of 
our staff we believe we will remain 
at the forefront of our industry in 
the UK.
Safety
Health and safety is of vital 
importance to the Alkane business. 
We take great pride in ensuring 
that we provide all our staff and 
contractors with a safe place to 
work. To ensure that we constantly 
improve and fully understand 
how health and safety within the 
business is managed we monitor 
all types of injuries and incidents 
and these are reported directly into 
the Senior Management Team and 
the Alkane Board. All of our health 
and safety metrics are made 
available through our internal 
IT systems and communicated 
and discussed at staff briefings. In 
2013, 38 environmental health and 
safety inspections were carried 
out across our operational and 
construction sites.
Near misses or Non-
Conformance Reports ( NCR's) 
provide a valuable learning 
opportunity to improve and 
prevent future incidents. Every 
NCR is fully investigated and 
recommendations are put 
in place to aid continuous 
improvement.
Our workforce consists of skilled 
employees who are actively 
engaged in supporting and 
developing the health and safety 
culture. Good communication is 
key to maintaining and improving 
our environmental health and 
safety performance and this is 
achieved through our formal 
SHEQ meetings and ad hoc team 
meetings where employees can 
make suggestions, speak openly 
about concerns and discuss 
issues. A total of six SHEQ meetings 
were held last year. 
Image: View of Warsop Energy Park. The majority of Alkane's green energy parks are unobtrusive in their settings.
Alkane Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
20/21
Our 
Performance