 Genus plc Annual Report 2011
45
Company
Overview
Business 
Review
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee's 
terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant 
financial experience and the Company fulfils this requirement. All members of the Committee are expected to be 
financially literate. 
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are:
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Group's  >
financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein;
reviewing the Group's financial systems, internal financial controls and the Group's internal control and risk management  >
systems;
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal audit function in the context of the Group's overall risk  >
management system;
making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general  >
meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditors;
reviewing and monitoring the external auditors' independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process,  >
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account  >
relevant professional and regulatory guidance and monitoring compliance; 
ensuring the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees to raise matters of concern in confidence; and >
reviewing the Company's systems and controls for the prevention of bribery. >
 
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Meetings
The Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Group's 
financial calendar in the period. Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters relevant to its 
terms of reference in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of 
Internal Audit and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings. The Chairman is not a member of 
the Committee but does attend its meetings at the invitation of the Committee. Other members of management are invited 
to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties
In the year ended 30 June 2011 and up to the date of this report the Audit Committee has:
reviewed the Financial Statements in the 2011 Annual Report and the Financial Statements in the 2011 Interim Report.  >
As part of this review the Committee received reports from management on significant issues affecting the Financial 
Statements, and reports from the external auditors on their audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and 
review of the Interim Report;
considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks; >
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial  >
Statements on this matter;
reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors; >
met with the external auditors, without management being present;  >
agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 2011 Financial Statements and review of the  >
Interim Report;
reviewed the independence and performance of the external auditors;  >
agreed a work programme for the Company's internal audit function;  >
received reports from the internal audit function on the work undertaken by internal audit and management responses  >
to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year;
reviewed the performance of the internal audit function; >
Audit Committee Report Genus plc Annual Report 2011
46 Corporate Governance
met with the internal auditors, without management being present; >
reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference;  >
reviewed the Group's tax strategy and the Group's pension arrangements; >
reviewed the Company's policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services; and >
reviewed the Group's whistleblowing policy and bribery prevention procedures. >
External Auditors
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence, objectivity and 
performance of the external auditors, and for making a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment 
of external auditors on an annual basis.
The Group's external auditors, Deloitte LLP, were first appointed as external auditor of the Company for the period ended 
30 June 2006 following a formal tender process.
The Group's policy on non-audit services sets out services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide 
to the Group, addressing both the nature of services and monetary thresholds requiring approval by the Group Finance 
Director and the Audit Committee Chairman. Deloitte LLP ( Deloitte') are retained for tax advisory and tax compliance 
services. Note 8 to the Financial Statements sets out the fees paid to Deloitte during the year for audit services, audit 
related services and non-audit services. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the use of Deloitte for such services does 
not impair their independence as the Group's external auditors. The Company's Non-Audit Services by Auditors Policy can 
be found on the Company's website www.genusplc.com.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has reviewed a report from management on the 
effectiveness of the external audit work based on questionnaires completed by key financial staff and members of the Audit 
Committee covering matters such as:
the external auditors' fulfilment of the agreed audit plan; >
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements;  >
the content of the external auditors' reports; and >
cost effectiveness. >
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has 
recommended to the Board that the external auditors be reappointed for a further year. A new senior statutory audit 
partner has been selected by the Company due to the previous senior audit partner having held office for five years.
Internal Audit Function
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the 
context of the Group's overall risk management system. During the period the Company's internal audit function had been 
outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP. Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Company appointed a Head of Internal 
Audit to bring in-house the overall management of internal audit and increase the overall resource applied to internal audit 
activities. In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee has reviewed the following in the period:
the scope, terms of reference, resource and activities of the internal audit function within the Group; >
internal audit's plans and its achievement of the planned activity; >
the internal auditors' reports on the results of individual audits and other significant findings, the adequacy  >
of management's response and the timeliness of resolution of the matters raised in such reports; 
the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit; and >
the performance of the internal auditors. >
The Group's Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel to receive, 
in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to 
the Audit Committee. 
Audit Committee Report continued Genus plc Annual Report 2011
47
Company
Overview
Business 
Review
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
Overview
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of 
reference. It has also ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and has assisted the Board in its 
review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control and risk management.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the 
work of the Committee.
Approval
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by:
Mike Buzzacott 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
5 September 2011