 Gibbs and Dandy is committed to good corporate governance and to the principles as set out in the Combined
Code of Corporate Governance (the Combined Code ).Where it does not already do so it is the intention of
the board to work towards appropriate compliance with the Combined Code during 2004.The board of directors
exercises effective control over the group and its activities while recognising its responsibility to shareholders and
other interested parties. The procedures for applying the principles in the Combined Code are set out below.This
statement should be read in conjunction with the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 10 to 13.
Board composition and committees
During the year, two independent non-executive directors were added to the board when Christopher Roshier
and John Castle were appointed on 6 March 2003 and 24 April 2003 respectively. As a result, the enlarged board
comprised three executive directors and three non-executive directors (including the chairman). Details are shown
on the inside front cover.The board intends to appoint a further independent non-executive director in due
course.
The board nominated Christopher Roshier as the senior independent director on 26 November 2003. He has
since been replaced in that role by John Castle.
John Dandy was non-executive chairman throughout the year 2003 and, given his substantial shareholding, was not
considered independent. He retired as chairman on 5 March 2004 and Christopher Roshier was appointed non-
executive chairman in his place the same day.The chairman has particular responsibility for managing the board and
its deliberations and for ensuring that strategies proposed for the business are critically reviewed. Michael Dandy
is managing director and is responsible for day-to-day operations as well as performing the lead role in developing
and implementing strategy. The board meets 12 times a year and, to enable it to function effectively, directors are
given full and timely access to all relevant information. For board meetings, this includes comprehensive financial
and operational reports plus discussion papers to enable directors to discharge their duties properly. The board
has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and this is reviewed periodically.
a) Directors' remuneration committee
The composition and function of the directors' remuneration committee are set out in the Directors'
Remuneration Report  (pages 10 to 13).The committee met twice during the year with all members attending.
b) Audit committee
Under formal arrangements, the board acted as the audit committee until a separate audit committee was formed
on 30 April 2003. This comprised all the non-executive directors under the chairmanship of Christopher Roshier.
T wo meetings were held during the year. Meetings were attended by all members of the committee as they existed
at the time of those meetings, with external auditors and other directors in attendance for part as appropriate.
The committee now meets at least twice yearly and for part of those meetings the executive directors are not
present. Other meetings can be held when necessary. John Castle has now succeeded Christopher Roshier as
chairman of the audit committee.
The Audit Committee's functions and terms of reference are available for inspection through the Company
Secretary.
External audit
The audit committee reviews the scope and results of the external audit and its cost-effectiveness and the
objectivity of the auditors.The analysis between audit and non-audit fees in the year under review appears in note
4 to the financial statements. Non-audit fees, which include tax compliance and tax advisory work, are considered
not to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors.
c) Nominations and appointments committee
The nominations and appointments committee currently comprises of the whole board chaired by the chairman.
Following the appointment of independent NED's, this arrangement will be reviewed in the light of the Combined
Code. The board's policy is for the chairman to agree selection criteria for new members with all existing board
members.The final decision on appointments rests with the full board.
corporate governance statement
7
gibbs and dandy plc 8
gibbs and dandy plc
corporate governance statement (continued)
Risk Management and Internal Control
The board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the identification and mitigation of risks and the
development and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control.
An annual review of risk assessment is undertaken, which has identified the following principal risks faced by the
company:
  Loss of the company's high reputation
  Changes in the UK's National and Regional economies
  Recruitment and retention of key management with the skills necessary to implement the company strategy
successfully
  Difficulty of obtaining suitable finance
The board believes that, although some of these issues are outside its control, it has clear strategies for identifying,
dealing with, and mitigating the impact of each of these risks. The main strategies deployed include:
  Regular review of strategy by the Board
  Continuous monitoring of available economic data
  Committed financing arrangements with its bank
  Ensuring that excellent performance is rewarded 
  Aligning individual and corporate objectives via incentive schemes
  Ensuring a culture, led from the board, of honesty, fairness and integrity throughout the company
During the period under review the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in
accordance with the T urnbull guidance by careful review of its risk assessments and systems of internal control.
The group's key internal controls are centred on comprehensive monthly reporting from all activities, which
includes management accounts, sales, margins, overheads, cash and working capital. These matters are reported to
the board monthly, with reasons for any significant variances from budget.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular
basis.
There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, which is reserved for board
approval. Formal policies and procedures are in place covering all elements of health and safety and IT.
Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss. The directors continue, however, to strive to ensure that internal control and risk management are further
embedded into the operations of the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are defined.
In accordance with the Code, the board has reviewed the need to establish an internal audit function, but
continues to believe that in a company of its size, where close control over operations is exercised by the
executive directors, the benefits likely to be gained would be outweighed by the costs of establishing such a
function.
Going Concern
The Directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 9
gibbs and dandy plc
corporate governance statement (continued)
Compliance 
As mentioned above it is the intention of the board to work towards compliance with the new Combined Code
during 2004. Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003, the company has been in compliance with the Code,
except for the following matters:
  Under the company's present articles of association, directors are required to offer themselves for election
only at the first annual general meeting following their appointment. As a consequence the company does not
comply with section A6.2 of the Code.The board will propose new articles of association for adoption by
members in April 2004.
  The company had only one non-executive director until the appointment of two additional, independent, non-
executive directors on 6 March 2003 and 24 April 2003 respectively. As a consequence, the company has been
able to comply with certain provisions of the Code (in particular, sections A2.1,A3.1/2, B2.1/2 and D3.1) for
only part of the year.
Shareholder Relations
The Managing Director and Finance Director normally meet with institutional investors and analysts twice a year
at the time of the announcement of results and comments made are reported to the Board. The Chairman and
the senior independent director are available to meet with shareholders when appropriate. The company's Annual
General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to meet with private investors.
Copies of major announcements, including its Annual and Interim results, together with other information about
the company, are posted on its website (www.gibbsanddandy.com).
Health and Safety
The company aims to safeguard the health and safety of its employees and the public by having a policy, which
ensures that:
  Its business is conducted in accordance with standards that meet with the appropriate requirements for health
and safety of staff and visitors to its premises
  A safe working environment is developed and maintained at all the company's branches
  Management regard health and safety as a prime responsibility
  Sufficient resources are provided to ensure these policies can be implemented
  Training in matters relating to health and safety is provided at all levels
  Risk assessments are carried out where required
  The company has professional Health & Safety consultants to advise it in this area
  Staff are kept aware of their responsibilities for their own health and safety and that of others.