 page 14
Gibbs and Dandy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Gibbs and Dandy is committed to good corporate governance and to the principles as set out in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance
(the Combined Code ). During 2006, except as noted below, the Group complied with the Combined Code as it applies to smaller companies.
The procedures for applying the principles in the Combined Code are set out below. This statement should be read in conjunction with the Directors'
Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 20. The Board of directors exercises effective control over the Group and its activities while recognising its
responsibility to shareholders and other interested parties.
Board composition and committees
During the year, the Board included three non-executive directors including the chairman - Christopher Roshier, John Castle and Julia Tyson,
the latter two being independent non-executive directors. Board details, which include the three executive directors, are shown on page 10.
Julia Tyson resigned from the Board on 25 January 2007.
The chairman, Christopher Roshier, has particular responsibility for managing the Board and its deliberations and for ensuring that strategies
proposed for the business are critically reviewed. Michael Dandy is managing director and is responsible for day-to-day operations as well as
performing the lead role in developing and implementing strategy. The Board met formally 7 times during 2006 and, to enable it to function
effectively, directors are given full and timely access to all relevant information. For Board meetings at which results are reviewed, this includes
comprehensive financial and operational reports plus appropriate discussion papers. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision and this is reviewed periodically.
During the year, the Board reviewed its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its committees through the use of a questionnaire distributed to all
members. No significant issues were raised and a number of minor adjustments were made to the way in which the Board operates to reflect points
raised in the answers to the questionnaire.
The chairman and the managing director evaluate the performance of all directors, whilst the chairman's performance is evaluated by the
senior independent director, John Castle, in consultation with the managing director and other non-executive director. The managing director's
performance is reviewed by the chairman in consultation with other non-executive directors.
The Board has the following committees:
a) Remuneration committee
The composition and function of the Remuneration committee are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report (pages 17 to 20). The committee
met once during 2006.
b) Audit committee
The Audit committee comprises all the non-executive directors under the chairmanship of John Castle. The committee met twice in 2006. 
The external auditors were present at both meetings, and for part of one of those meetings the executive directors were not present. Other
meetings can be held when necessary. The Audit committee's functions and terms of reference are available for inspection on the company's
website - www.gibbsanddandy.com
The Smiths guidance on Audit committees suggests that the chairman, who is not deemed to be independent after assuming that role should
not be a member of the Audit committee. However, Christopher Roshier is a chartered accountant, has extensive financial experience over a
long career, has experience of sitting on the Audit committees of a number of companies and was an independent director before he became
chairman. When considering this and the size of company, the Board believes this exception to the Combined Code is in the best interests of
shareholders, and he should remain a member of the committee.
External audit
The Audit committee reviews, inter alia, the scope and results of the external audit and its cost-effectiveness and the objectivity of the
auditors, and recommends to the full Board whether or not the auditors should be proposed for reappointment. The analysis between audit
and non-audit fees in the year under review appears in note 6 to the financial statements. The level of non-audit fees are considered not to
affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors.
The Audit committee's policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is that, whilst it is appropriate and cost effective
for the external auditors to provide tax compliance and tax advisory work to the Group, other services should only be provided where
alternative providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the Group's interest for the external auditors to provide such services. In all
cases the provision of non-audit services is carefully monitored by, and subject to the prior approval of, the Audit committee.
The external auditors would not be invited to provide any non-audit services where it was felt that this could conflict with their independence
or objectivity. Such services would include the provision of internal audit and management consulting services.
The Audit committee also reviews the procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
Corporate Governance Statement c) Nomination committee
The Nomination committee comprises all the non-executive directors and the managing director, and is chaired by Christopher Roshier. The
Combined Code suggests that the majority of members of the Nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors. The
Combined Code does not consider the chairman to be independent. The majority of the Nomination committee membership is therefore not
independent and this is an exception to the Combined Code. The Board considers this to be in the interests of shareholders considering the
size of the company and given that the majority of the members of the committee are non-executive directors.
The Nomination committee's terms of reference, which are available on the Group's website, provide that it should review the structure, size and
composition of the Board; provide for succession planning of the executive directors; and identify and nominate candidates for appointment to
the Board. The final decision on appointments rests with the full Board. The committee met twice during the year.
When required, a candidate profile and objective selection process are used for director appointments. A job description is prepared and, if
appropriate, executive search consultants are appointed to recommend a shortlist of potential candidates.
The attendance record of directors at Board and committee meetings in 2006 was:
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director Board Committee Committee Committee
Christopher Roshier 7 212
John Castle 7 212
Julia Tyson 7 212
Michael Dandy 6 n/a n/a 2
William Naylor 7 n/a n/a n/a
Amitabh Sharma 7 n/a n/a n/a
Meetings held 7212
Risk management and internal control
The Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the identification and mitigation of risks, the development and maintenance of an
appropriate system of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls. The principal risks for the Group
identified by the Board are set out in the Business Performance Review on page 7.
The Board believes that, although some of these issues are outside its control, it has clear procedures for identifying, dealing with, and mitigating
the impact of each of these risks. These include:
  Regular review of strategy by the Board;
  Monitoring of available economic data;
  Ensuring that excellent performance is properly rewarded;
  Aligning individual and corporate objectives via incentive schemes; and
  Ensuring a culture, led from the Board, of honesty, fairness and integrity throughout the company.
During the period, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance and
updated all risk assessments. This review was carried out through the production of detailed reports which covered: the Group's control
environment, the key business risks and how these are controlled, the adequacy of information systems and control procedures and the manner
in which any required corrective action is to be taken. No weaknesses were identified during this review. The risk management process covers
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report. Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet
business objectives. The directors continue, however, to strive to ensure that internal control and risk management are further embedded into
the operations of the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are identified.
page 15
Corporate Governance Statement (continued) page 16
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
Risk management and internal control (continued)
The Group's key internal controls are centred on comprehensive monthly reporting from all activities, which includes management accounts
incorporating sales, margins, overheads, cash flows and working capital, and capital expenditure. These matters are reported to the Board
monthly, with reasons for any significant variances from budget. Stock is monitored closely and tight controls exercised over cash and credit
extended. Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the Board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis. There are
clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, which is subject to Board approval over certain limits. Formal policies
and procedures are in place covering all elements of health, safety and IT.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Audit committee has reviewed the need to establish an internal audit function, but continues to
believe that in a Group of its size, where close control over operations is exercised by the executive directors, the benefits likely to be gained
would be outweighed by the costs of establishing such a function.
Shareholder relations
The managing director and finance director hold meetings with institutional investors and analysts twice a year, at the time of the announcement
of results, and at other times on request. Comments made at such meetings are reported to the Board.
The chairman and the senior independent director are available to meet with shareholders when appropriate. The Group's annual general meeting
is also used as an opportunity to meet with both private and institutional investors.
Copies of major announcements, including the annual and interim results, together with other information about the Group, are posted on
the Group's website - www.gibbsanddandy.com