 .BA
Audit Committee report
Composition
The Audit Committee comprises the following independent non-
executive Directors:
Name Audit Committee position
John Sheldrick Chairman
Tufan Erginbilgic Member (from 9 May 2011)
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Member 
Richard Parry-Jones Member
Michael Turner Member
The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary. 
The Committee's members have, in the Board's view, recent and
relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate
Governance Code. In particular, John Sheldrick, the Committee
Chairman, was Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc from 
1995 until his retirement in September 2009 and has chaired GKN's
Audit Committee since 2004; and Shonaid Jemmett-Page has held 
a number of senior finance roles in Unilever, is a former partner at 
KPMG and is currently Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc. 
Role
The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to
the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit
processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk
management systems. The Committee is responsible for monitoring 
and reviewing:
  the integrity of the Group's financial statements and the significant
reporting judgements contained in them;
  the appropriateness of the Group's relationship with the external
auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of
non-audit services;
  the effectiveness of the external audit process, making
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditors;
  the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function
(Corporate Audit);
  the effectiveness of the Group's internal control and risk
management systems; and
  the Group's policies and practices concerning business conduct 
and ethics, including whistleblowing.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committee's authority and
responsibility are available on our website at www.gkn.com. The terms
were considered as part of the Board's performance evaluation review
as described on page 50.
Advice provided to the Committee
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent 
access to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors,
and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary. During 2011
no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought
such outside professional advice beyond that which was provided
directly to the Committee by the external auditors. Both the Head of
Corporate Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the
Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
Activities
The Committee met on five occasions in 2011 timed to coincide with the
financial and reporting cycles of the Company. Members' attendance at
these meetings is set out in the table on page 48.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of
Corporate Audit, the engagement partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP (PwC) and other members of senior management attended 
meetings by invitation. The Head of Corporate Audit and PwC had 
the opportunity to discuss matters with the Committee without any
executive management being present at two and three meetings
respectively. In addition, the members of the Committee met separately
at the start of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any
persons attending by invitation.
Financial reporting
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial
reporting and related matters in respect of the Company's half year 
and annual results statements and its annual report prior to their
consideration by the Board. In particular, the Committee reviewed the
significant accounting judgements made in respect of restructuring
charges, tax and warranty provisioning, non-recurring costs on
Aerospace contracts, assumptions in respect of post-employment
obligations, and charges arising from the temporary closure of the
Group's plant in Gallatin, US. Key points of disclosure and presentation 
to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial
statements were also considered. Reports highlighting key accounting
matters and significant judgements were also received from PwC in
respect of each set of financial statements; these were discussed in
Committee with the auditors. Analysis to support the going concern
judgement given on page 35 was also reviewed.
Following consideration of the matters presented to it and discussion
with both management and PwC, the Committee was satisfied that the
significant judgements made were justified and that the financial
reporting disclosures were appropriate and meaningful.
External auditors
Independence
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Company's policies on 
external audit. The policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and
independence of the external auditors, regulate the appointment of
former employees of the external audit firm to positions in the Group
and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors
for non-audit work. During the year, on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, the Board approved changes to the policy on the
provision of non-audit services by auditors in order to improve clarity
and reflect current practice and developing regulatory guidance. In
particular, changes were made to exclude a number of services in line
with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards and Financial
Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees, both published in
December 2010.
As a general principle the external auditors are excluded from
consultancy work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit
work unless there are compelling reasons to do so. Any proposal to 
use the external auditors for non-audit work must be submitted to the
Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, for approval prior 
to appointment. The Finance Director will, depending on the nature of
the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the Audit
Committee. During the year, an electronic approval system for non-audit
services was implemented, allowing improved tracking and visibility of
non-audit fees. The non-audit fees incurred during 2011 are set out in .BB
GKN plc
Annual Report 
and Accounts 2011
Governance
note 4(a) to the financial statements and include half year review work,
tax compliance and advice (whereby PwC can draw upon significant
historic knowledge gained through the audit process), technical
accounting advice and other verification and attestation procedures. 
All such activities remain within the policy approved by the Board. 
The Committee receives annual confirmation from PwC as to their
independence and objectivity within the context of applicable
regulatory requirements and professional standards, as well as
management confirmation of compliance with the Group's policies on
the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the
use of the external auditors for non-audit work. The objectivity and
independence of PwC is also considered as part of Corporate Audit's
annual review of the effectiveness of both the external auditors and 
the audit process.
Effectiveness and reappointment
Following the rotation of the audit partner after the completion of 
the 2010 audit in line with best practice guidelines, the Committee
undertook a thorough review of the performance of the external auditors
and the effectiveness of the external audit process which included:
  a tender proposal by the new audit partner for future GKN audits
which covered such matters as qualification, expertise, resourcing,
independence, objectivity and value for money and which was
subject to rigorous scrutiny by the Committee;
  completion of a comprehensive questionnaire by Directors and
senior management across the Group on the effectiveness of the
auditors and the audit process;
  a comparative analysis of GKN's audit and non-audit fees against
those of the constituents of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices;
  consideration of the findings of an independent benchmarking
survey into the four major audit firms; and
  a review of externally published documents on the four major audit
firms (including PwC) issued by regulatory bodies.
Following the review, and taking account of the tenure of PwC as
auditors, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to
recommend to the Board PwC's reappointment as the Company's
auditors. There are no contractual obligations restricting the
Committee's choice of external auditors.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2011 can be found in note 4(a) to the
financial statements.
Internal control
In 2011 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken 
by Corporate Audit and considered the adequacy of management's
response to the matters raised, including the implementation of any
recommendations made. The Committee considered and approved 
the 2012 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit
approach (particularly in respect of post-acquisition reviews and anti-
bribery compliance checks), coverage and allocation of resources. 
The effectiveness of Corporate Audit was formally reviewed, taking 
into account the views of Directors and senior management on matters
such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy,
planning and methodology.
The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group 
level significance, including details of any remedial action being taken;
these reports included updates on the status of the Group's proprietary
internal financial control monitoring system (GKN Reporting and
Integrity Procedures). It considered reports from Corporate Audit and
PwC on the Group's systems of internal control and reported to the
Board on the results of its review. The Committee also examined reports
detailing the Group's actual or potential material litigation, monitored
compliance with the Group's policy for the appointment of agents 
and consultants (which is available on our website), and reviewed 
the Directors' and Company Secretary's expenses.
Further information on the Group's systems of internal control and 
risk management is given on pages 50 and 51.
Whistleblowing
To support the Group's Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy (which 
is available on our website), GKN operates a Group-wide international
whistleblowing hotline. Run by an external and independent third party,
the hotline facilitates arrangements whereby employees can make 
(on an anonymous basis if preferred) confidential disclosures about
suspected impropriety and wrongdoing. Any matters so reported are
investigated and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made 
are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Performance evaluation
Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process which took
place during the year can be found on page 50.
On behalf of the Committee
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee
27 February 2012