 Business review  P06-P53 Shareholder information  P183-P204 Financial statements  P91-P182 Governance and remuneration  P54-P90
65
GSK Annual Report 2009
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Thursday, 6th May 2010 
at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, 
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted  
at the meeting will include:
     Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2009  
Annual Report
     Approving the 2009 Remuneration Report 
The Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 90 sets out the 
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and 
disclosures on Directors' remuneration, including those 
required by the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. A resolution will be proposed to approve 
the Remuneration Report.
     Retirement and re-election of Directors 
Dr Stephanie Burns, Mr Julian Heslop, Sir Deryck Maughan,  
Dr Daniel Podolsky and Sir Robert Wilson will each retire and 
offer themselves for re-election to the Board under current 
Article 85 of the company's Articles of Association.
      Re-appointment and remuneration of auditors 
Resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Audit & Risk 
Committee to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors and to determine their remuneration.
     Special business 
The company will seek authority to:
      make donations to EU political organisations and incur  
EU political expenditure, each capped at  50,000
      allot Ordinary Shares in the company
      give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights 
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues 
or otherwise up to a maximum of 5% of the current 
issued share capital and purchase its own Ordinary Shares 
up to a maximum of just under 10% of the current issued 
share capital
      exempt the auditors from having to state the name of  
their senior statutory auditor for the company in GSK's  
Annual Report
      reduce the notice required to call a general meeting to 
not less than 14 clear days
      amend the company's Articles of Association in line with 
the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholder Rights Directive 
and to include a limit on annual fees paid to Directors.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend 
the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf provided that, in 
the event that a single shareholder appoints multiple proxies, each 
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 
share or shares held by that member.
Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate 
representative or proxy can be found on page 200. The Notice of 
AGM will be published on the company's website.
Internal control framework
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the 
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the 
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility 
for such review to the Audit & Risk Committee, which receives 
regular reporting aligned with GSK's Assurance Programme. It is 
the responsibility of management, through the CET, to implement 
Board policies on risk and control. The CET is responsible for 
identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies 
that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business. The 
internal control framework includes central direction, resource 
allocation and risk management of the key activities of research and 
development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human 
resources, information systems and financial practice. As part of 
this framework, there is a comprehensive planning system with 
an annual budget approved by the Board. The results of operating 
units are reported monthly and compared with the budget. 
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
The Group also has in place established procedures to identify and 
consolidate reporting entities. The Group's control activities include 
policies and practices covering appropriate authorisation and 
approval of transactions, application of financial reporting standards 
and reviews of significant judgements and financial performance.
Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures 
and risk activities are reviewed by the Group's internal auditors. 
Responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local business units, 
supported by a regional management structure. These principles 
are designed to provide an environment of central leadership 
coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the 
exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and 
procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and 
control. A Group policy,  Risk Management and Legal Compliance', 
mandates that business units establish processes for managing and 
monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
The internal control framework also relies on the following for 
overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board 
to assist the Audit & Risk Committee oversee the risk management 
and internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises 
several CET members and some of the heads of departments 
with internal control, risk management, assurance, audit and 
compliance responsibilities.
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant 
risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal 
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and 
internal GSK policies. The ROCC, responding to the Group policy 
referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework 
for risk management and upward reporting of significant risks. 
Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with overall 
responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
Corporate governance Governance and remuneration  P54-P90
66
GSK Annual Report 2009
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs)
RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units. 
Membership often comprises members of the senior executive 
team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists 
where appropriate. The RMCBs oversee management of all 
risks that are considered important for their respective business 
units, including those risks that are designated as significant to 
GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks 
that are actively managed across the Group.
Each business unit and corporate function must periodically review 
the significant risks facing their businesses. This review should 
include identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and risks 
to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives. The review 
must occur at least annually, should be embedded within, and 
aligned with, the annual planning process to ensure that significant 
risks are identified with changes in management direction and the 
external environment. 
Assurance 
In 2009, an Assurance Programme was implemented to further 
enhance governance and provide an independent assessment 
of governance, risk management and control processes for the 
organisation. Within GSK this comprises four main elements:
Internal Audit
GSK's Internal Audit group has responsibility for independently 
assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the management 
over significant risk areas and reporting it to the Audit & Risk 
Committee in line with an agreed annual Assurance Plan. 
GSK's internal audit functions have undergone significant 
transformation as the four global audit functions (Group Internal 
Audit, Manufacturing Internal Audit, R&D Internal Audit, and 
Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability Internal Audit) 
have been consolidated into a single organisation under the 
leadership of the Head of Audit and Assurance. The Head of Audit 
and Assurance reports to GSK's Company Secretary & Corporate 
Compliance Officer with a separate reporting responsibility to the 
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee. 
This new alignment of the global audit functions further 
strengthens GSK's governance model by affording the Internal 
Audit group greater independence, reduces fragmentation among 
global audit functions and provides a direct reporting line from 
the Internal Audit group to GSK's Company Secretary & Corporate 
Compliance Officer and to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk 
Committee to ensure significant issues are escalated in a timely 
manner. This has helped eliminate overlaps, gaps and potential for 
over/under auditing that existed in the previous structure.
It also provides a clear platform for developing a common 
approach to the conduct of internal audits which helps ensure 
consistency and that audit activities are performed in the most 
efficient and effective way. 
Assurance reporting
Assurance reporting to the Audit & Risk Committee will follow a 
structured programme integrating reporting from business units, 
Assurance and Internal Audit. 
Business units and corporate functions are required to present 
reports annually to the ROCC and Audit & Risk Committee that 
detail its risk management and compliance approach, providing a 
balanced assessment of the status of internal controls over key risks, 
and highlighting any significant compliance issues. Management 
must oversee risks that are considered important for their respective 
business units, including those risks that are designated as significant 
to the Group. Information regarding the controls in place to manage 
these risks will be provided to assure the Audit & Risk Committee 
that these risks are adequately managed within the internal control 
framework.
Internal Audit reports to the Audit & Risk Committee at the same 
time as the business unit and provides an independent assessment of 
whether adequate controls are in place to manage significant risks. 
Corporate governance
Internal
audit
activity
Independent
review of 
business unit
and internal 
audit activity
GSK Risk Universe 
Internal
audit
assessment
Business unit assertion
Assurance
assessment
Risk Oversight 
and 
Compliance 
Council
Audit 
& Risk
Committee
Emerging
risk
management
Business
control
infrastructure
Business
monitoring
External audit/
regulatory
agency outcome
Incidents/
events
Management Internal
audit
Assurance 