 14
GLOBAL OCEANIC CARRIERS LIMITED
Annual Report and Accounts
for the seven months ended December 2007
corporA te GovernAnce
The Group is managed by an effective Board of Directors (Board), which has the overall responsibility for the corporate governance of the Company . The foremost duty and 
responsibility of the Board is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholders' value, to safeguard the Company's interests and to ensure the Company's compliance with the UK 
Combined Code principles and guidelines as best practices, in such respect as appropriate for a company of its size and nature. Where full compliance is not appropriate 
due to the Group's size and/or nature, the Directors will refer to guidance for AIM quoted companies issued by the Quoted Companies Alliance.
The Company is managed by the Board in accordance with its Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Board consists of six Directors, three of whom are Executive. 
The foremost duty and responsibility of the Board is to establish the strategic vision of the Group, deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value and to safeguard 
the Company's interests. 
The Board monitors the Group's performance against its business plan. It is also responsible for leading and controlling the Group and in particular for formulating, 
reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, budget, major items of capital expenditure and acquisitions and disposals. Regular meetings are being held and all 
necessary information is supplied on a timely basis to enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively. Additionally special meetings take place, or other arrangements 
are made when Board decisions are required in advance of the regular meetings.
It is the Group's policy that Directors are re elected by shareholders and the Company's Articles require one third to retire by rotation. Michael T artsinis and 
Antonis Nikolaou retire by rotation and have offered themselves up for re election at the Annual General Meeting.
It is forbidden to the Directors and any other party to whom the Directors have delegated responsibilities, to pursue personal interests if these are in conflict 
with the Group's interests. All Directors and/or other parties to whom the Board has delegated responsibilities have a duty to inform the other members 
of the Board of any personal interests they may derive or any conflict of interest that may occur in carrying out their duties.
Executive Directors have responsibility for the day to day management and control of the Company, whereas Non executive Directors are responsible 
for the overall promotion and safeguarding of the Company's interests. 
The direct or beneficial ownership by a Director or an immediate family member of a Director, of a significant amount of GO Carriers stock is not considered 
a material relationship that would impair the Director's performance. The Board annually reviews all relationships of Directors. Any issues of independence 
will be publicly disclosed annually.
The term of office for each Director commences from the date of his/her election and expires when he/she comes up for re election at the Annual General Meeting 
of shareholders.
The Board comprises the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, one Executive Director and three Non executive Directors. 
In total the Board comprises three Executive and three Non executive Directors, one being independent. 
The Board, having recognised the need for high standards of behaviour and accountability, has established three Board Committees - an Audit Committee, 
a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, to which particular duties have been delegated. Each of these Committees consists 
of Non executive Directors and all are chaired by the Non executive independent Director. 
Board committees
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises three Non executive Directors and meets at least three times every year. The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring 
that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored, controlled and reported on. It also meets with the auditors and reviews auditors' reports 
relating to accounts and internal controls systems. The Audit Committee will also recommend the appointment of, and will review the fees of the external auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of two Non executive Directors and meets at least twice every year. The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility 
of assessing the performance of the Executive Directors and setting the scale and structure of their remuneration on the basis of their service agreements with due 
regard to the interests of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee has set up performance criteria as well as remuneration elements and share based incentive scheme. Annual compensation reviews 
are based on certain factors considering the Company's overall performance as well as individual contribution to performance. A share based incentive scheme 
has been approved by the Committee. No Director will be permitted to participate in discussions or decisions concerning his own remuneration. The remuneration 
of members of the Remuneration Committee is determined in accordance with best practice.
Nominations Committee
The Board has delegated to the Nominations Committee the responsibility to assist the Board in identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, 
to elect the Chairman and propose Director nominees for the next Annual General Meeting of shareholders.
The terms of reference of all Committees are available for review on the Company's website (www.gocarriers.com).
Composition of Committees during the period 1 June 2007 to 31 December 2007:
     Board of Audit Remuneration Nominations 
     Directors Committee Committee Committee
Non executive Directors         
Theo Phanos*            
T om Saul            
Douglas Kearney        **  **  **
Peter St George          
Executive Directors        
Michael T artsinis         
Christina Anagnostara         
Antonis Nikolaou         
* Resigned 22 October 2007.
** Appointed following the resignation of Theo Phanos. 15
GLOBAL OCEANIC CARRIERS LIMITED
Annual Report and Accounts
for the seven months ended December 2007
Directors' holdings
At 31 December 2007, the interests of Michael T artsinis, Chief Executive Officer and Antonis Nikolaou, Executive Director, represented 12,703,316 shares 
or 31.7% of the Company's issued share capital.
At 31 December 2007, the interest of Douglas Kearney, Non executive Director, represented 20,620 shares or 0.05% of the Group's issued share capital.
internal control environment
The Group considers the control environment as the foundation for all other components of internal control, providing discipline structure and influencing the 
control consciousness of employees. Integrity and high ethical values stem from management's philosophy and operating style and appropriate recruitment and 
training practices ensure the competence of the Group's people. The Group has an organisational structure suitable for its size and responsibilities and reporting 
lines have been defined in accordance with specified delegation of authority.
The Group has established internal policies and procedures to ensure a homogeneous operational mode under corporate governance principles, achievement 
of goals through effective and efficient operations, compliance with applicable laws and regulations and reliability of financial reporting.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
control activities
Control activities are the policies and procedures that ensure that management directives are carried out. Functions that are separated include those of commercial 
and technical management, operations, finance and accounting. Segregation of duties is one of the primary controls. 
information and communication 
The Group has effective communication channels to ensure that information is identified, captured and communicated in such form down, across and up within 
the Company. 
Monitoring
The Group has established mechanisms for the ongoing monitoring of ordinary business activities. These include supervisory activities and other actions personnel 
take in performing their duties that assess the performance of internal control systems. 
risk management 
Risk taking is an integral part of its business. The Company has put in place risk management mechanisms to identify risks and to assess their potential impact 
on the achievement of the Company's objectives. 
The risk management practices reflect the Company's objectives. It is therefore not intended that risk positions are maintained solely to increase short term 
profitability. The objective is to position us in the shipping market and establish a sound base for providing customers and counterparties with a first class service.
risk assessment
The Board on an annual basis performs a risk assessment and conducts a review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function. The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and believes that due to the size and the complexity 
of the business this is not necessary. However, the need for an internal audit function will be assessed on an annual basis.
shareholder relations
The Board places significant importance in maintaining good communications with its shareholders. This includes meetings with shareholders and analysts as 
appropriate. Shareholders are also invited to the Company's Annual General Meeting when questions will be taken. The Group is using its website to provide 
information and updates to its shareholders.
executive Directors' remuneration policy
On 28 June 2007 the Remuneration Committee approved the Executive Directors' compensation policy and long term share based incentive scheme.
Remuneration elements consist of fixed and variable components. Executive Directors' compensation is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, 
taking into account both market movement and individual performance. Performance criteria will also apply in the share based incentive scheme. 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors. A resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board,
christina Anagnostara
Chief Financial Officer
3 April 2008