 18
Corporate Governance
Application of principles
The Group is committed to applying the best principles of Corporate Governance. The Group has applied
the principles of Good Governance contained in the Combined Code to the extent they are consistent
with its size. The Compliance Statement is given under the Combined Code 2003 (the FRC Code).
Compliance Statement
The company has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code with the following exceptions:
The Board has yet to introduce a process for evaluating the performance of the Board, Committees and
Independent directors (provision A.6.1). It is intending to work towards introducing an appropriate
evaluation process.
Following the resignation of Russell J Race on 28 July 2004, the company only has a single
independent non executive director and two members of the audit committee, one of whom is the
chairman and is therefore in breach of provisions A.3.2 and C.3.1. The company is planning to 
appoint an additional Independent director.
As set out in the risk management section, the audit committee has reviewed the initial report from the
newly formed internal audit function on the internal controls of the group, but is not yet in a position to
comment on their effectiveness as required under provision C.2.1.
Board composition
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors. The Board comprises the non-executive
chairman and one other non-executive director (who the Board considers to be independent), the chief
executive and four executive directors. The Board's main roles are to create value to shareholders, to
approve the Company's strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other
resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives. Specific responsibilities reserved
to the Board include: setting Group Strategy, reviewing operational and financial performance, approving
major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approving appointments to the Board and the
Company Secretary, approving policies relating to Director's remuneration and the severance of
Directors' contracts; and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
The executive directors of the Board are:
Ajit R Patel
Kirti V Patel
Rakesh V Patel
Ajay M Patel
Mike Reardon
All the above executive directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and at the
first AGM after appointment. 
The non-executive directors are Ken Pelton and Peter Brown, who is also Chairman of the Group.
Ken Pelton has been associated with the Group for more than 9 years and therefore submits himself for
annual re-election in accordance with good corporate governance principles. Although this length of
service does not meet one of the criteria for Director Independence under the Code, the Board considers
that Ken Pelton meets all the other criteria and the Chairman is satisfied that he acts as an independent
and effective non-executive Director.
Peter Brown, is over 70 years old and therefore retires and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election
at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board met six times during the year under review. At each meeting the Board receives reports from
the chief executive, the finance director, other directors and senior management as required.
The Board has three Committees, whose terms of reference can be inspected  by prior arrangement at
Goldshield's offices in Croydon. 19
Audit committee
Ken Pelton (Chairman)
Peter Brown
Both non-executive directors are qualified accountants.
The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing the external audit arrangements, including the scope,
results and cost effectiveness of the audit, any changes in accounting policies and procedures, the
judgmental decisions affecting financial reporting, compliance with accounting standards and with 
the Companies Act and considering the Auditors' comments on internal controls and management's
response. The Audit Committee monitors the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the
Auditors to ensure their independence and objectivity is maintained. 
Audit committee meetings are also attended by invitation by representatives of the Group's auditors, the
company secretary and the finance director. The committee considers the Group's annual and interim
financial statements and any questions raised by the auditors on the statements and financial systems.
During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and reviewed the Group's draft financial
statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and considered the external auditors'
detailed reports thereon. The Committee also reviewed the performance of the newly established
internal audit function.
The Group's auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP , provide some non-audit services. The majority of non-
audit work are compliance services on the various taxation issues within the Group, and do not
compromise their independence as auditors. The level of non-audit fees (which are less than the audit
fees) are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Remuneration committee
Peter Brown (Chairman)
Ken Pelton
The Remuneration committee met twice in the financial year and determined the Directors'
remuneration. Neither of the committee members have any personal financial interest in the matters to
be decided (other than as shareholders), nor potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships
nor any day to day involvement in the running of the business. The Committee consults with the Board
about its proposals and has access to professional advice from inside and outside the Group.
Nomination committee
Peter Brown (Chairman)
Ajit R Patel
Ken Pelton
The Nomination committee meets as required to select and recommend suitable candidates to the
Board for both executive and non-executive appointments. There have been no Board appointments in
the year under review although the committee is planning to appoint an additional Independent
Director and meetings have been held with a number of potential candidates.
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and committee meetings attended by each Director
during the year was as follows:
Name of Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director Board Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings
Peter Brown - Chairman 6 / (6) 4 / (4) 2 / (2) n/a
Ajit Patel - CEO 6 / (6) n/a n/a n/a
Kirti Patel 6 / (6) n/a n/a n/a
Rakesh Patel 6 / (6) n/a n/a n/a
Ajay M Patel 5 / (6) n/a n/a n/a
Mike Reardon 5 / (6) n/a n/a n/a
Ken Pelton 5 / (6) 4 / (4) 2 / (2) n/a
Figure in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a board member 20
Shareholder relations
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director hold meetings with institutional
shareholders to discuss the Group's strategy and financial performance. Efforts are made to keep
shareholders informed through analysts' meetings, road shows and soundings taken from
individual shareholders as and when required.
All shareholders can gain access to information about the Group, including the annual report,
through the Goldshield website www.goldshieldplc.com.
Risk management and internal controls
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the group's system of internal controls. The
intent is to manage risk rather than eliminate it and controls cannot provide an absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Group's systems of internal controls are as follows:
  Control environment: short and direct lines of responsibility are designed to ensure that
business risks are communicated for prompt review. The performance of each business unit is
reviewed at regular monthly meetings. The full Board also reviews the same at regular board
meetings held at least six times each year. A period of at least five days each year is set aside
for strategic planning and assessment of risks affecting the group attended by senior managers
from all parts of the group. In addition, a meeting of Unit Heads is held at least three times in a
year, when matters of strategic importance are discussed with specific emphasis on training and
development.
  Operating procedures: key financial controls are documented as operating procedures setting
out responsibilities and financial authority levels.
  Budgeting: a comprehensive budgeting procedure is followed by business units. The CEO
presents an annual forecast at Group Level for discussion and agreement by the Board.
  Information systems: the group's accounting systems are backed up and scaleable to meet
business needs. Sufficient precautions are taken to retain the processed data in an off-site
location, which forms part of the disaster recovery program followed by the company.
A regular review takes place with the company's insurance brokers to assess the adequacy of the
Group's insurance cover in the face of operational and other risks of the business.
Additional steps taken to audit and control financial and other risks within the year under review
include:
  Creation of a separate unit for Compliance, Internal Audit and Legal which monitors and
supervises legal, auditing and regulatory issues affecting the Group's operations with a view to
implementing relevant best practice and reporting to the Group Board.
  The appointment of an in-house Company Secretary. 
The Board fully recognises the importance of adopting appropriate risk and control measures.
Following the creation of an internal audit function in the year, the Audit committee reviewed its 
initial findings in relation to the Group's systems and controls, but is not yet in a position to
review their effectiveness. Further work will be undertaken in this area in the coming year. 
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. An explanation of
the Group's cash flow position at 31 March 2005 is set out in the Report of the Finance Director.
Corporate Governance
(continued)