 16
Corporate Governance Report
Application of principles
The Group is committed to applying the best principles of Corporate Governance. The Group has applied
the principle of Good Governance contained in the Combined Code to the extent they are consistent with
its size. The Compliance Statement is given under the Combined Code 2003 (the FRC Code).
Compliance statement
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code with the following exceptions:
During the year under review the company only had a single independent non-executive director and
two members of the audit committee and remuneration committee, one of whom is the Chairman and
was therefore in breach of provisions of A.3.2, B.2.1 and C.3.1. However, the Company has since
appointed a third non-executive director on 15 May 2006 thereby complying with the above provisions.
For the said appointment we conducted a search through an external agency. 
While the Board has introduced a scientific process of evaluating the performance of the Executive
Directors with an appropriate performance pay scheme with reference to the profit and loss account of
different Business and Operation Units under their respective control, it is yet to introduce a process for
evaluating the performance of the Committees and Independent directors (provision A.6.1). It is
intending to work towards introducing an appropriate evaluation process.
Board composition
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors. The Board comprises the non-executive
chairman and two other non-executive directors (whom the Board considers to be independent), the
chief executive and four executive directors. The Board's main roles are to create value to shareholders,
to approve the Company's strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other
resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives. Specific responsibilities reserved
to the Board include: setting Group strategy, reviewing operational and financial performance, approving
major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approving appointments to the Board and the
Company Secretary, approving policies relating to Director's remuneration and the severance of
Directors' contracts; and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
The executive directors of the Board are:
Ajit R Patel
Kirti V Patel
Rakesh V Patel
Ajay M Patel
Mike Reardon
All the above executive directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and at the
first AGM after appointment. 
The non-executive directors are Ken Pelton, Dr. Keith Hellawell and Peter Brown, who is also Chairman
of the Group.
Ken Pelton, the Senior independent non-executive director, has been associated with the Group for more
than 9 years and therefore submits himself for annual re-election in accordance with good corporate
governance principles. Although this length of service does not meet one of the criteria for Director
Independence under the Code, the Board considers that Ken Pelton meets all the other criteria and the
Chairman is satisfied that he acts as an independent and effective Director.
Peter Brown, is over 70 years old and therefore retires and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election
at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Dr. Keith Hellawell, who was appointed by the Board on
15 May 2006, retires, and being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. 
The Board met seven times during the year under review. At each meeting the Board receives reports
from the chief executive, the finance director, other directors and senior management as required.
The Board has four Committees, whose terms of reference can be inspected by prior arrangement at
Goldshield's office in Croydon. 17
Warfarin Working Party
Ken Pelton (Chairman)
Peter Brown 
Dr. Keith Hellawell (w.e.f. 15 May 2006)
Mike Reardon (Secretary)
Rakesh Patel
Ajay Patel
The Warfarin Working Party has been formed with delegated powers from the Board to manage the
Warfarin litigation on a day to day basis and to ensure that the Company's interests are separated
from those of the Chief Executive, A R Patel and K V Patel who are charged as individuals. The
Warfarin Working Party is responsible for the selection of legal advisers to represent the Company in
both the civil and criminal cases and these advisers cannot represent any of the Directors as
individuals.
Audit Committee
Ken Pelton (Chairman)
Peter Brown
Dr. Keith Hellawell (w.e.f. 15 May 2006)
The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing the external audit arrangements, including the scope,
results and cost effectiveness of the audit, any changes in accounting policies and procedures, the
judgmental decisions affecting financial reporting, compliance with accounting standards and with the
Companies Act and considering the Auditors' comments on internal controls and management's
response. The Audit Committee monitors the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by
the Auditors to ensure their independence and objectivity is maintained. 
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by invitation by representatives of the Group's auditors,
the Company Secretary and the Finance Director. The Committee considers the Group's annual and
interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditors on the statements and
financial systems.
During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and reviewed the Group's draft financial
statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and considered the external
auditors' detailed reports thereon. The Committee also reviewed the performance of the in-house
internal audit function.
The Group's auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP , provide some non-audit services. The majority of
non-audit work are compliance services on the various taxation issues within the Group, and do not
compromise their independence as auditors. The level of non-audit fees (which are less than the
audit fees) are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee
Peter Brown (Chairman)
Ken Pelton
Dr. Keith Hellawell (w.e.f. 15 May 2006)
The Remuneration Committee met twice in the financial year and determined the Directors'
remuneration and the issue of share options. None of the Committee members have any personal
financial interest in the matters to be decided (other than as shareholders), nor potential conflicts of
interest arising from cross-directorships nor any day to day involvement in the running of the
business. The Committee consults with the Board about its proposals and has access to
professional advice from inside and outside the Group.
Corporate Governance Report
(continued) Nomination Committee
Peter Brown (Chairman)
Ajit R Patel
Ken Pelton
Dr. Keith Hellawell (w.e.f. 15 May 2006)
The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and recommend suitable candidates to the
Board for both executive and non-executive appointments. The Nomination Committee
recommended Dr.Keith Hellawell for appointment as Non-Executive Director - Chairman Designate.
The number of of Non-Executive Directors now stand at 3, complying with the provision of
Combined Code 2003 (The FRC Code) 
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and committee meetings attended by each Director
during the year was as follows:
Name of the Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director Board Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings
Peter Brown - Chairman 7 / (7) 4 / (4) 2 / (2) 2 / (2)
Ajit Patel - CEO 7 / (7) n/a n/a 2 / (2)
Kirti Patel 7 / (7) n/a n/a n/a
Rakesh Patel 7 / (7) n/a n/a n/a
Ajay M Patel 7 / (7) n/a n/a n/a
Mike Reardon 7 / (7) n/a n/a n/a
Ken Pelton 7 / (7) 4 / (4) 2 / (2) 2 / (2)
Dr. Keith Hellawell n/a n/a n/a n/a
Figure in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a board member
n/a - indicates not applicable
Shareholder relations
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director meet and telephone institutional
shareholders to discuss the Group's strategy and financial performance. Efforts are made to keep
shareholders informed through analysts' meetings, road shows and soundings taken from individual
shareholders as and when required.
All shareholders can gain access to information about the Group, including the annual report,
through the Goldshield website www.goldshieldplc.com.
Risk management and internal controls
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls. The intent
is to manage risk rather than eliminate it and controls cannot provide an absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Group's systems of internal controls are as follows:
  Control environment: short and direct lines of responsibility are designed to ensure that business
risks are communicated for prompt review. The performance of each business unit is reviewed at
regular monthly meetings. The full Board also reviews the same at regular Board meetings held at
least six times each year. A period of at least five days each year is set aside for strategic planning
and assessment of risks affecting the Group attended by senior managers from all parts of the
Group. In addition, a meeting of Unit Heads is held at least two times in a year, when matters of
strategic importance are discussed with specific emphasis on training and development.
  Operating procedures: key financial controls are documented as operating procedures setting out
responsibilities and financial authority levels.
  Budgeting: a comprehensive budgeting procedure is followed by business units. The CEO presents
an annual forecast at Group Level for discussion and agreement by the Board.
Corporate Governance Report
(continued)
18 19
Corporate Governance Report
(continued)
  Information systems: the Group's accounting systems are backed up and scaleable to meet
business needs. Sufficient precautions are taken to retain the processed data in an off-site
location, which forms part of the disaster recovery program followed by the company.
A regular review takes place with the Company's insurance brokers to assess the adequacy of the
Group's insurance cover in the face of operational and other risks of the business.
The Board fully recognises the importance of adopting appropriate risk and control measures. The
Audit Committee has reviewed the annual report from the in-house internal audit function and is
satisfied with the scope and quality of audit work taken up in different areas of operational controls.
Some aspects of the internal audit programme are on going and these will be covered in the current
financial year.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. An explanation of
the Group's cash flow position at 31 March 2006 is set out in the Report of the Finance Director.