 19
Application of principles
The Group is committed to applying the best principles of Corporate Governance. The Compliance
Statement is given under the Combined Code 2006 (the FRC Code).
Compliance statement
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code with the following exceptions:
While the Board has introduced a process of evaluating the performance of the executive Directors
with an appropriate performance pay scheme with reference to the profit and loss account of different
business and operating units under their respective control, it is yet to introduce a process for
evaluating the performance of the Committees and Independent Directors (provision A.6.1). It is
considering introducing an appropriate process for evaluating the performance of the Committees and
Independent Directors. At the meetings of the Group Board, performance of executive Directors are
reviewed with reference to the summarised financial results of the various units under their respective
control.
Board composition
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors. The Board comprises the non-executive
Chairman and two other non-executive Directors, the Chief Executive and one other executive
Director. The Board's main roles are to create value for shareholders, to approve the Company's
strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made
available to enable them to meet those objectives. Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board
include: setting Group strategy, reviewing operational and financial performance, approving major
acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approving appointments to the Board and the
Company Secretary, approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and the severance of
Directors' contracts; and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
The executive Directors of the Board are:
Rakesh V Patel
Ajay M Patel
All the above executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and at
the first AGM after appointment. 
The non-executive Directors are Nick Woollacott, Paul Edwards MBE and Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM,
who is also Chairman of the Group.
Nick Woollacott joined the Board on 8 August 2007 and is the Senior independent non-executive
Director and also chairs the Audit Committee.
Paul Edwards MBE joined the Board on 8 August 2007 as independent non-executive Director and
also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
The Board met ten times during the year under review. At each meeting the Board receives reports
from the Chief Executive and other Directors and senior management as required.
The Board has three Committees, whose terms of reference can be inspected by prior arrangement
at Goldshield's office in Croydon.
Corporate Governance Report  Audit Committee
Ken O Pelton (Chairman) (upto 8 August 2007)
Peter M Brown (upto 8 August 2007)
Nick Woollacott (Chairman) (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
Paul Edwards MBE (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing the external audit arrangements, including the
scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit, any changes in accounting policies and
procedures, the judgmental decisions affecting financial reporting, compliance with accounting
standards and with the Companies Act and considering the auditors' comments on internal controls
and management's response. The Audit Committee monitors the nature and extent of non-audit
services provided by the auditors to ensure their independence and objectivity is maintained.
Nick Wollacott is a member of the Audit Committee of an AIM listed company and has past experience
as a member of Audit committees of listed companies. The Board is of the opinion that Nick Wollacott
satisfies the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by invitation by representatives of the Group's auditors,
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary. The Committee considers the
Group's annual and interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditors on the
statements and financial systems.
During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and reviewed the Group's draft financial
statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and considered the external
auditors' detailed reports thereon. The Committee also reviewed the performance of the in-house
internal audit function. The audit plan is independently drawn up by the in-house internal audit
department and discussed with the Audit Committee for adequacy of coverage. The Audit Committee
also directs the internal audit department to carry out specific assignments. The internal audit reports
are given to the operating heads, and are also independently discussed with the Audit Committee for
their feedback and suggestions which are then implemented upon.
The Group's auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP , provide some non-audit services. The majority of
these are compliance services on various taxation issues within the Group, and do not compromise
their independence as auditors. The level of non-audit fees (which are less than the audit fees) are
reviewed annually by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee
Peter M Brown (Chairman) (upto 8 August 2007)
Ken O Pelton (upto 8 August 2007)
Paul Edwards MBE (Chairman) (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
Nick Woollacott (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM, Group Chairman attends the meetings of the Remuneration Committee by
invitation.
The Remuneration Committee met three times in the financial year and determined the Directors'
remuneration and the issue of share options. None of the Committee members have any personal
financial interest in the matters to be decided, nor potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-
directorships nor any day to day involvement in the running of the business. The Committee consults
with the Board about its proposals and has access to professional advice from inside and outside
the Group.
Corporate Governance Report 
(continued)
20 21
Corporate Governance Report 
(continued)
Nomination Committee
Peter M Brown (Chairman) (upto 8 August 2007)
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM (Chairman) (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
Ken O Pelton (upto 8 August 2007)
Ajit R Patel (upto 2 July 2007) 
Nick Woollacott (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
Paul Edwards MBE (w.e.f. 8 August 2007)
The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and recommend suitable candidates to the
Board for both executive and non-executive appointments. The selection process includes search
using external agencies. As at 31 March 2008, the number of non-executive Directors stood at 3,
complying with the provision of Combined Code 2006 (The FRC Code). 
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during
the year was as follows:
Scheduled Audit RemunerationNomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Name of the Director Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM-Chairman 10 / (10) 4 / (4)
(*)
3 / (3)
(*)
2 / (2)
Rakesh V Patel 10 / (10) 4 / (4)
(*)
n/a n/a
Ajay M Patel 10 / (10) n/a n/a n/a
Nick Woollacott (w.e.f. 8 August 2007) 5 / (5) 3 / (3) 3 / (3) 2 / (2)
Paul Edwards MBE (w.e.f. 8 August 2007) 5 / (5) 3 / (3) 3 / (3) 2 / (2)
Figure in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a Board member 
n/a - indicates not applicable
(*) Attendance by invitation
Shareholder relations
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer meet and telephone institutional shareholders to discuss
the Group's strategy and financial performance. Efforts are made to keep shareholders informed
through analysts' meetings, road shows and soundings taken from individual shareholders as and
when required.
All shareholders can gain access to information about the Group, including the annual report,
through the Goldshield website www.goldshieldplc.com.
Risk management and internal controls
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls. The intent
is to manage risk rather than eliminate it and controls cannot provide an absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. Decision on key issues is taken by the Board keeping in mind the
possible risks associated with the situation and ability of the Group to manage those risks effectively.
The key features of the Group's systems of internal controls are as follows:
  Control environment: short and direct lines of responsibility are designed to ensure that business
risks are communicated for prompt review. The performance of each business unit is reviewed at
regular monthly meetings. The full Board also reviews the same at regular Board meetings held
at least six times each year. A period of at least five days each year is set aside for strategic
planning and assessment of risks affecting the Group attended by senior managers from all parts
of the Group. In addition, a meeting of Unit Heads is held at least twice in a year, when matters
of strategic importance are discussed with specific emphasis on training and development.
Further, the Board meets every quarter for a two day strategic meeting during which the Board
evaluates the strategic direction and performance of the Group.   Operating procedures: key financial controls are documented as operating procedures setting out
responsibilities and financial authority levels.
  Budgeting: a comprehensive budgeting procedure is followed by business units. The Chief
Executive Officer presents an annual forecast at Group level for discussion and agreement by the
Board.
  Information systems: the Group's accounting systems are backed up and scaleable to meet
business needs. Sufficient precautions are taken to retain the processed data in an off-site location,
which forms part of the disaster recovery program followed by the Group.
A regular review takes place with the Group insurance brokers to assess the adequacy of the Group's
insurance cover in the face of operational and other risks of the business.
The Board fully recognises the importance of adopting appropriate risk and control measures. The
Audit Committee has reviewed the annual report from the in-house internal audit function and is
satisfied with the scope and quality of audit work taken up in different areas of operational controls
and the work undertaken to compile a comprehensive Risk Register. The Committee also reviews the
internal audit reports keeping in mind the need to take remedial actions on significant audit findings
pursuant to C.2.1 of the Combined Code.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. An explanation of
the Group's cash flow position at 31 March 2008 is mentioned on page 10.
22
Corporate Governance Report 
(continued)