 19 Granby Oil & Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
cORPORAt E GOvERNANc E st At EMENt
As Granby Oil & Gas plc has an AIM listing rather than a full listing, it is not required to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code  
(as annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority) relating to corporate governance. The Board supports high standards of 
corporate governance and intends to comply, as far as is practicable, with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 
and updated in June 2006 ( the Combined Code') and follows the recommendations on corporate governance of the Quoted Companies Alliance 
( QCA'), in each case to the extent reasonable, in the Board's view, for a public company of Granby's current size and nature. It is a main principle 
under section 1 of the Combined Code that the Board should include a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors (and in particular 
independent Non-Executive Directors) such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board's decision making.
The Board notes that following Admission to trading on AIM on 15 June 2006 the Group was not compliant with this provision in so far as only 
one Non-Executive Director was considered independent. This non-compliance was addressed in February 2006 with the appointment of a 
further independent Non-Executive Director and the Board considers that it now complies with this principle.
After consideration it has been decided not to appoint a separate Senior Non-Executive Director as either of the two independent Non-Executive 
Directors my be contacted where there are concerns that cannot be discussed with the Chairman who would be the usual principal contact. In 
connection with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees, the Chairman is currently a member of the Audit Committee but he is not allowed to 
chair it and the Company is now compliant with the requirement to have two independent Non-Executive Directors on the Audit Committee.
With these exceptions the Board considers that Granby Oil & Gas plc complied in all respects with the Combined Code for the year ended  
31 March 2006. Decisions about the remaining exceptions will be reviewed annually.
Board c omposition 
The Board comprises three Executive Directors (the Managing Director, the Finance Director and the Executive Director) and three Non-Executive 
Directors, one of whom is the Chairman. Mr Shutkever and Mr Morton are considered to be independent as they are free from any business 
relationship that would influence their independent judgement. Directors' biographies appear on page 15.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association one third of the Directors are required to retire by rotation each year and may seek  
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and therefore each Director must stand for re-election at least once every three years. 
However, as this will be the first Annual General Meeting of the Company, all Directors will retire and stand for election by the shareholders. 
Role and working of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Company. The Board formulates and agrees the overall corporate 
strategy and management of the individual businesses. Briefing papers are circulated on a timely basis on various routine matters and any issues 
where a decision is required. 
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision. The Directors have access to the advice of the Company 
Secretary and there is a procedure in place for them to seek independent legal and other professional advice, the cost of which would be met  
by the Company.
The Board met formally 10 times in the first financial year, supplemented as necessary by tele-conference meetings. It is scheduled to meet 
formally 10 times in the current year, with additional meetings as required.
Board c ommittees
The Board has established a number of Committees to assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities. Terms of Reference for the Audit, Remuneration  
and Nominations Committees are available in full on the Group's website www.granbyoil.com.
The Audit Committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board. The Committee comprises all three Non-Executive Directors,  
Ric Piper, David Morton and its Chairman Adam Shutkever. Mr Shutkever has recent and relevant financial experience. In connection with  
the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees, although the Chairman is currently a member of the Audit Committee he is not allowed to chair  
it and the Company is compliant with the requirement to have two independent Non-Executive Directors on the Committee. The Managing  
Director, the Finance Director and the external auditors also attend the meetings as required. The Committee is scheduled to meet at least  
twice a year, and met three times during the financial year. The Committee considers the financial statements of the Company prior to  
submission to the Board. The Committee reviews any reports from the external auditors and reviews the financial reporting and internal  
control procedures within the Company. The appointment of auditors and the level of fees payable for both audit and non-audit work are  
agreed by the Committee. See note 5 to the financial statements for further details.
The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board and comprises all three Non-Executive Directors, Ric Piper, 
Adam Shutkever and its Chairman David Morton. The Committee met once during the financial year. The Committee is responsible for developing 
a remuneration policy for Directors and executives. Further details appear in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 21 to 22.
The Nominations Committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board and comprises the Managing Director and two Non-Executive 
Directors, Adam Shutkever and its Chairman, Ric Piper. The Committee is responsible for reviewing all Board appointments. The Committee met 
once during the financial year and recommended the appointment of Dr David Morton to the Board in February 2006.
The Management Committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board and has delegated authority from the Board for the day to day 
management of the Group. The Committee comprises the Executive Directors and senior management. Minutes of all meetings are distributed  
to the Board. 20 Granby Oil & Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Record of attendance at Board and committee meetings
      Audit  Remuneration Nominations 
     Board Committee Committee Committee
Meetings held     10 3 1 1
Attendance
Nigel Burton     10 3  
David Grassick     10   1
David Morton*     2 1 * 
Richard Moreton     10 1  
Ric Piper     10 3 1 1
Adam Shutkever     10 3 1 1
* David Morton was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
internal controls 
The Board maintains a system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and the Company's assets. The Directors acknowledge 
that they have overall responsibility for the system of internal control and, in accordance with the guidance set out in the Financial Reporting 
Council  Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code', the Board has established an ongoing process for identifying and managing  
the significant risks faced by the Group.
Whilst the Board of Directors is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls, these systems provide only reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A Risk Assessment has been undertaken throughout the organisation to identify, evaluate and, where possible, minimise or eliminate the risks 
faced by the Company in its normal course of business. This process was conducted throughout the period under review and continued up to 
the date of approval of the accounts. 
The Management Committee undertakes regular risk reviews, and will continue to do so. It identifies and assesses business risks and documents 
these accordingly at meetings, together with actions taken to minimise any potential risks. These assessments are reviewed by the Board  
with senior management taking responsibility for the processes established and monitored within their specific areas of operation on  
an ongoing basis. 
Internal financial control systems operate throughout the Group. Formal control is exercised through a clearly defined schedule of delegations of 
authority which is reviewed from time to time. An operational and financial Plan is approved by the Board annually. Financial reporting systems are 
in place to monitor performance against Plan, and to provide the Board with appropriate reports of performance against Plan at each meeting.
The Directors do not consider that an internal audit function is required, given the size and nature of the business at this time. This will be 
reviewed annually. 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the year and as at the date of this report. 
s hareholder communication
The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue with shareholders. Following each of the principal announcements, including  
the Company's interim and preliminary results, the Company sends copies of the announcements to all shareholders. The corporate website 
(www.granbyoil.com) provides access to all announcements and additional shareholder information. The Executive Directors have also made 
presentations to institutional investors. All shareholders are welcome to communicate with the Company at any time, and the Company has a 
policy of replying to all communications from shareholders. 
The Annual General Meeting is seen as an opportunity for shareholders to put questions to the Board and to meet the Directors informally after 
the meeting. The Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, and Nominations Committees will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer questions. 
Auditor independence
The engagement and independence of external auditors is considered annually by the Audit Committee before it recommends their selection to 
the Board. The Committee has satisfied itself that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are independent and there are adequate controls in place to 
safeguard their objectivity. Such measures include the requirement to rotate audit partners every five years. We have a non-audit services policy 
which sets out criteria for employing external auditors and identifies areas where it is inappropriate for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to work.
Non-audit services work carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was principally in connection with the admission of the Company to trading 
on AIM and accounting advice. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP also follow their own ethical guidelines and continually review their audit team to 
ensure their independence is not compromised.
 
cORPORAt E GOvERNANc E st At EMENt continued