 34 > Group 4 Securicor > ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Corporate Governance Report
The board's report on the company's corporate governance performance for the year ended 31 December 2004 is based on the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance published in July 2003 (the Combined Code ).
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the code's principles, and to confirm that they comply with the code's provisions or, where they
do not comply, to provide an explanation.
(a) Application of Combined Code principles
The board comprises the non-executive chairman (J rgen Philip-S rensen), two non-executive deputy chairmen (Alf Duch-Pedersen and Lord Sharman), five
other non-executive directors, the chief executive, the deputy chief executive, the chief financial officer and one other executive director. The board considers all
the non-executive directors, with the exception of Mr Philip S rensen, to be independent. The senior independent director is Lord Sharman.
All continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and will submit themselves for
re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows:
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Lord Sharman (chairman) Alf Duch-Pedersen (chairman) J rgen Philip-S rensen (chairman)
Waldemar Schmidt Lord Condon Lord Condon
Malcolm Williamson Thorleif Krarup Alf Duch-Pedersen
Bo Lerenius Lord Sharman
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the company's website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The board met on four occasions during the year ended 31 December 2004. There were three board meetings and one strategy day, at which presentations on
the group's principal businesses were made to the board by senior executives and at which the group's acquisition and growth strategy was discussed. All
directors were present at all meetings except for Thorleif Krarup who was absent for one board meeting and for the strategy day. At each meeting, the board
receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company secretary and an investor relations report which includes a summary of
comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting. In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts accompanied by
an update report from the chief executive.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which are set out under five separate categories: (1) Board and management; (2) Operations; (3)
Finance; (4) Business control; and (5) Secretarial. By way of example, board approval is required for (a) acquisitions, disposals, investments and capital projects
exceeding  4m; (b) any changes to the group's business strategy, and (c) the annual trading, capital expenditure and cashflow budgets.
In the year under review, the Audit Committee met once and the Remuneration Committee met three times. There were no meetings of the Nomination
Committee, although it has met since the beginning of the current year. All members attended each of the meetings except for Thorleif Krarup and Bo Lerenius
who were absent for one of the meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
The board has appointed an external consultancy to conduct an evaluation of the performance of the board as a whole. Each of the directors has completed a
questionnaire seeking views on the current performance of the board and on ways in which its performance can be improved. The results are being collated by
the consultancy and will then be discussed with the chairman before being shared with the board. Later in the year, it is intended that the evaluation will be
extended to cover the performance of individual board members and of the three board committees. The board considers that, as the board and its committees
have only been functioning since July 2004, it is premature to carry out a complete evaluation process at this time.
The executive directors hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the group's strategy and financial performance, although price
sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings. It is intended that all the directors will attend the Annual General Meeting and will be available to
answer questions from shareholders.
  35
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
The Nomination Committee has appointed an external search consultancy to identify suitable candidates for non-executive positions on the board.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by representatives of the group's auditors, the chief financial officer, the head of internal audit and the company
secretary. The committee considers the group's annual and interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditors on the financial statements and
financial systems. It also considers, amongst other matters, risk management procedures and internal controls and it requires the auditors, who perform certain
non-audit work for the company, to provide a Statement of Independence to the committee at the year-end, setting out the auditors' internal procedures for
avoiding conflicts. The Audit Committee also meets with the group's auditors in the absence of management. Lord Sharman is the member of the committee
with recent and relevant financial experience.
(b) Compliance with provisions of Combined Code
Save as set out below, the company complied throughout the period from 20 July 2004 (the date its shares were admitted to listing on the London Stock
Exchange) until 31 December 2004 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Non-compliance with Combined Code
(i) Provision A3.1 of the Combined Code provides that the chairman should be independent and that, in assessing independence, major shareholdings should be
taken into consideration. J rgen Philip-S rensen, a member of the founding family of Group 4 and currently the company's largest shareholder, is also non-
executive chairman. He became chairman of Group 4 Falck in 2000, prior to which he had been chairman of Group 4 Securitas (International) BV since 1964.
He currently holds approximately 13.6% of the company's shares. The board believes that Mr Philip-S rensen's presence on the board is of benefit to the
company given his vast experience of putting businesses together and his extensive knowledge of the security industry. Mr Philip-S rensen will retire in June 2006
when, following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee, he will be succeeded as chairman by Alf Duch-Pedersen, currently joint deputy chairman.
(ii) Provision B1.6 of the Combined Code recommends that notice or contract periods should be set at 12 months or less. The service contract of Lars N rby
Johansen, the company's chief executive, entitles him to a period of notice from the company of 24 months for a two year transitional period with effect
from 19 July 2004, after which his employment may be terminated on 12 months' notice. The board has agreed with Mr N rby Johansen that he will step
down as chief executive and leave the board after the Annual General Meeting on 30 June 2005.
(c) Risk Management and Internal Control
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the group's activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group. Policies
and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board
to present significant exposure.
Prior to the merger, the Group 4 Falck businesses did not have a risk management process which accorded with the internal control guidance for directors on
the Combined Code. From the date of the merger, the formal risk management process previously used within the Securicor businesses is being introduced
across all the group businesses.
The key features of this process are:
> A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of business objectives.
> Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions. The risk profiles ensure that
internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
> Risk review exercises are undertaken at least twice a year and updated risk profiles are prepared. Similar exercises are undertaken as part of the integration
process for all major acquisitions. 36 > Group 4 Securicor > ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the Combined Code, is carried out under
the supervision of divisional risk management committees, which meet quarterly and report to the group risk management committee. This latter committee,
which also meets quarterly and which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial officer. Divisional and group risk
profiles are reviewed and updated at each meeting.
Company risk review exercises will be implemented throughout the group during 2005, with the results being reviewed by the divisional and group risk
management committees.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control. Both the divisional risk management committees and the group
risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks. They monitor the actions taken to reduce risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and
written policies and procedures. In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from other sources including
security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistleblowing activity, and risk and control 
self-assessment returns.
The board has reviewed the group's risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2004 by considering reports from both the
Audit Committee and the group risk management committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2004.
Nigel Griffiths
Secretary
3 May 2005
 