 GWR Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance
22
Corporate governance
Statement of appliance of the Principles 
in the Combined Code
The following narrative sets out how the Group has
applied the Principles in the Combined Code (the  Code')
and the guidance  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors
on the Combined Code'.
The Board 
The Board meets regularly during the year and special
meetings are convened as and when matters require
urgent consideration. A formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved to the Board for decision is in place 
and is reviewed and periodically updated. The schedule 
is compiled so as to ensure that the Board maintains full
control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial,
organisational and compliance issues. The regular business
at each meeting consists of an executive report from the
Chief Executive and the Finance Director . Directors receive
Board information five days prior to the day of each 
Board meeting. 
The directors are identified on page 19. The Board
considers that three of the six non-executive directors are
independent of management and free from any business
and other relationship that could materially interfere with
the exercise of their independent judgement. Following
the resignation of RJ Palmer , the Board has not appointed 
a new senior independent non-executive director although
this is being kept under review. The non-executive directors
bring a balance and diversity of skills and experience to 
the Board. 
There is a clear designation of positions and responsibilities
between the role of Chairman, held by RM Bernard and
that of Chief Executive, held by JPE Taylor . The Chairman 
is responsible for running the Board, the Chief Executive 
is responsible for running the business of the Group.
The Statement of Directors' Responsibilities is on page 30.
Board Committees
Each Board Committee has written terms of reference
approved by the Board. Members of the Remuneration,
Audit and Nomination Committees are shown on page 19. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises three non-
executive directors and is chaired by RN Gilbert. The board
approves the remuneration of directors and other senior
executives, following recommendations from the
Remuneration Committee. In accordance with the Code 
RN Gilbert and Sir Peter Michael are not deemed to be
independent by the Board. However the Board believes
that their expertise and knowledge in this area are
valuable and that their membership and, in the case 
of RN Gilbert, his Chairmanship are in the best interests of
the Company. RJ Palmer was a member of the Committee
until his resignation as a Director of the Company. The
Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors
and is chaired by SJ Pirie. Two of the three members of the
Audit Committee are deemed to be independent. 
The Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its
responsibilities in relation to the audit, the auditors,
financial reporting, internal control procedures and going
concern. RJ Palmer and JH Trafford were members of this
Committee until they resigned as Directors of the Company.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the
Company, RM Bernard, who also chairs this Committee, and
two non-executive directors. The Committee principally
provides advice and recommendations to the Board and 
the Chairman on the constitution of and appointments 
to the Board.
Re-election of directors
The Company's Articles require all directors to be re-elected
at least every three years, in accordance with the Code. 
The Articles require that a director appointed by the Board
must be elected by the shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting following appointment. This is in accordance with
the Code.
Directors' remuneration
The policy relating to and information on directors'
remuneration is included within the Report of the Board
on Directors' Remuneration on pages 24 to 29.
Relations with shareholders
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders,
including meetings with the Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director . In addition there are presentations of 
the annual and interim results and other topics.
A trading statement is issued at each Annual General
Meeting. All directors generally attend the Annual General
Meeting. Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting, which are to be included in this
document together with the Annual Report, are set out on
pages 58 to 60.
Internal control
The Board has implemented the guidance  Internal Control:
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' and the
following sets out how the Group has applied the principles
and complied with the provisions. These processes have
been in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2003
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to maintain 
a sound system of internal control and to review its
effectiveness to safeguard shareholders' investments and
the Group's assets. As new procedures and working
practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and
internal controls embedded into systems. Any residual risk
is then considered for acceptability. The internal control
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a control environment with policies,
processes and codes of conduct, which are designed to
identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced 
by the Group, which is regularly reviewed and accords with
the guidance,  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on
the Combined Code'. GWR Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance
23
A key feature of the control environment is the
constitution and role of the Board and the committee
structure established to manage the business. The principal
Board Committees are the Remuneration, Audit and
Nomination Committees. 
The Chairman chairs a Group Executive Board that 
consists of the six executive directors. The Group Executive
Board concentrates on Group strategy and controls the
development of divisional strategy, business plans and the
monitoring of progress against key performance indicators,
the annual budget and long-term business plan. This
structure also provides the forum for establishing the
Board's requirements on internal control and monitoring
the effectiveness of the management of significant risks in
business units across the Group. 
The Group's UK operational businesses are managed
through four divisions: Local Radio, Classic FM, Digital
Radio Multiplex Operations and Support Services. In
addition, the Group has Head Office and Digital
Developmental divisions. Opus, GWR's sales division, 
now generates all the Group's UK sales, and Creation
GWR's content division provides programming to the
Group's UK local radio stations. Heads of each division 
and the Executive Directors combine to form the Group
Management Board. The Group Management Board 
meets at least monthly to manage the Group's operations. 
Following last year's acceptance as a member of Good
Corporation, the Group has undergone a detailed
verification of its operation and has been accredited 
to the Good Corporation Charter . 
During the year the Head of Risk Management has
reported regularly to the Audit Committee on risk
management and internal controls. The Audit Committee
has examined in detail the reports by the Head of Risk
Management, which include a review of the formal process
of risk assessment and self-certification carried out by
divisional management in accordance with the Group's Risk
Management policy. This process evaluates the potential
financial impact of all significant risks including financial,
operational and compliance risks. No shortcomings
material to the Group have been identified. 
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, the going concern basis has been
adopted in preparing the accounts.
Statement of compliance with the Code
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 the Company
has been in compliance with the Code Provisions set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
issued by the UK Listing Authority, except for the following
areas which are either detailed above or within the Board's
Remuneration report on pages 24 to 29.
The following areas of non-compliance relate to different
periods during the year ended 31 March 2003
1 A.3.2. Until the resignation of RJ Palmer on 1 August
2002, only five of the ten non-executive directors were
independent. Following RJ Palmer's resignation, until 
31 December 2002, five of the nine non-executive
directors were independent. Following the resignation
of NS Tresilian, CE Blackwell and JH Trafford on 
31 December 2002, until 30 January 2003, only two 
of the six non-executive directors were independent.
Following the appointment of M Barnes on 30 January
2003 until 31 March 2003, three of the six non-executive
directors were independent.
2 A.2.1. After 1 August 2002, when RJ Palmer resigned
from the Board, the Company had no senior
independent non-executive director .
The following areas of non-compliance were for the whole
of the year ended 31 March 2003:
3 B.1.7. The Chairman, RM Bernard and the Chief Executive,
JPE T aylor both currently have two-year contracts. 
4 B.2.1. The Deputy Chairman, RN Gilbert, and 
Sir Peter Michael, neither of whom are deemed to 
be independent directors, were members of, and 
RN Gilbert chaired, the Remuneration Committee. 