 38
The Company is listed on AIM. Although the rules of AIM do not
require the Company to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance ( the Code') that was issued by the Financial Reporting
Council in 2006, the board has nevertheless resolved to do so
having regard to the size and specific requirements of the Company.
Accordingly it does not seek to comply with provisions D.1.1 and D.1.2
which deal with communication between major shareholders and
non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The board
The Company has appointed non-executive directors to bring an
independent view to the board and to provide a balance to the executive
directors. The board of directors comprises two executive directors and
three non-executive directors, one of whom is the chairman, Gordon
Page, and another is the senior independent director, Alan Frost.
The board considers that each of the non-executive directors is
independent within the meaning of the Code.
The Chairman meets with the non-executive directors without the
executive directors present at least once each year.
The board meets every two months and in advance of each regular
meeting, receives a board pack with the information necessary for it
to discharge its duties. These packs include financial data, reporting on
health and safety, controls and risk assessments and detailed individual
reports from each executive director. The board has responsibility for
formulating, reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, budgets,
major items of expenditure, acquisitions and the directors' report and
annual and interim financial statements.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and are able to take professional advice
at the Company's expense.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal
actions against directors as well as against material loss or claims against
the Group, and reviews the adequacy of cover regularly. The Company
has also entered an agreement with each of its directors whereby the
director is indemnified against certain liabilities to third parties which
might be incurred in the course of carrying out his duties as a director.
These arrangements constitute a qualifying third party indemnity
provision for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
There is a formal schedule of matters, decisions on which are reserved
to the board. There is also a schedule of the division of responsibilities
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. Both schedules are
reviewed by the board at least annually.
During 2008 the board carried out a formal assessment of its performance
and effectiveness using the services of an outside consultant (Edis-Bates
Associates). As a result a number of process improvements have been
introduced to the conduct of the board and its committees and further
actions are planned. It is proposed to hold a further review within the
next 12 months.
Board committees
The board has established three committees: audit, remuneration and
nominations. Each has written terms of delegated responsibilities and
each is chaired by a different non-executive director. The Company
Secretary is secretary to each committee. A copy of each committee's
terms of reference can be found at the Company's website
www.hamworthy.com.
Audit committee
The audit committee consists of Gordon Page, Alan Frost and James
Wilding and is chaired by Alan Frost. It meets at least three times a year
with attendance from the external auditors and internal personnel as
required. The committee is responsible for
- ensuring that the appropriate financial reporting procedures are
properly maintained and reported on;
- meeting the auditors and reviewing their reports relating to the Group's
accounts and internal control systems;
- reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditor
and the objectives and effectiveness of the audit process;
- receiving and reviewing all internal operational review reports; and
- reviewing arrangements by which staff may in confidence raise
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting
or otherwise and receiving and dealing with matters reported under
the Group's whistleblowing policy.
The Group, because of its size and organisation, does not operate an
internal audit function responsible to the committee. The internal
audit and review function is integrated with the central finance team.
The committee has full access to the work of this function and the
relevant members of the central team have formal reporting processes
to the committee on a regular basis.
The external auditor has carried out non-audit services to the Group
during the year. The committee have considered the effect of this
work on the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
Having regard to the scale and nature of these services, the committee
concludes that the auditor's objectivity and independence are
not impaired.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee consists of Gordon Page, Alan Frost, and
James Wilding and is chaired by James Wilding. It meets at least twice
a year and is responsible for reviewing the performance of the executive
directors and other senior executives and for determining appropriate
levels of remuneration. The Chief Executive is invited to participate in
the committee's deliberations on all matters except consideration of
his own compensation. The committee's remuneration report is set out
on pages 34 to 37.
Nominations committee
The nominations committee consists of Gordon Page, Alan Frost, James
Wilding and Joe Oatley and is chaired by Gordon Page. The committee
reviews the size, structure and composition of the board and makes
recommendations on changes, as appropriate. It also gives consideration
to succession planning in the light of developments in the business.
In 2007 the committee organised and led the search process for a new
Chief Executive for the Company.
The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings
throughout the year was as follows:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board committee committee committee
Gordon Page 10 (10) 6 (6) 3 (3) 2 (2)
Paul Crompton 10 (10)
Alan Frost 10 (10) 6 (6) 3 (3) 2 (2)
Joe Oatley 10 (10) 2 (2)
James Wilding 10 (10) 6 (6) 3 (3) 2 (2)
Figures in brackets show the number of meetings which could have been attended.
Corporate governance
Hamworthy plc
Hamworthy_13082AR 2009_p34_p43:Layout 1  10/6/09  13:59  Page 38 39
Company overview Business review Governance Accounts
Shareholder relations
The Company meets with institutional shareholders and analysts as
appropriate and uses its website to encourage communication with
private, existing and prospective shareholders. Hamworthy plc welcomes
feedback from investors about its published reports and website.
Please address your feedback to our investor relations team by e-mail to
investor@hamworthy.com or in writing to Hamworthy plc, Fleets Corner,
Poole, Dorset BH17 0JT.
Internal control and risk management
The Group operates a system of internal control and intends to develop
and review that system in accordance with the guidance published by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The internal
control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives. The board is responsible for the
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. It can only
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The board operates a formal process of risk assessment and reporting.
Each major business unit carries out formal risk assessments annually and
regularly updates these during the year. The assessments are carried out
using, where appropriate, a standard categorisation of risk. Reports on
the assessments and mitigation actions of all significant risks are provided
to the board.
As a result of the overstatement of historic inventory value in the Group's
Inert Gas Systems business, the board carried out a comprehensive review
including the commissioning of a forensic investigation by Ernst & Young.
The result of that review has led to the strengthening of its control
processes during the year with both additional resources and formal
documenting of controls. A detailed programme of testing those
controls will be carried out during 2009 in conjunction with the external
auditors. The function of internal auditing is integrated with the
central finance team but with independent reporting access to the
chairman of the audit committee to whom the function reports regularly.
The Company undertakes a programme of operational reviews designed
to visit all major businesses on a regular basis. The finance director is
responsible for that programme and its reporting to the audit committee
and it is integrated into the risk assessment programme.
The board recognises that an essential part of its responsibility is the
effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of liabilities and
the accurate reporting of results. The Group has a comprehensive system
for regular reporting to the board. This includes an annual planning and
budgeting system with budgets approved by the board. The financial
reporting system compares against budget and prior year and reconsiders
its financial year forecast all on a monthly basis.
The board has established a formal policy of authorisation setting out
matters which require its expressed approval and certain authorities
delegated to the executive directors.
The Group operates in a multi-currency environment and is exposed
to a number of foreign currency risks. The board has set a policy for
the management and reporting of those risks and this is set out in more
detail in the Financial review on pages 19 and 20 and in note 33 to the
financial statements.
The Company has established a policy and share dealing code relating
to dealing in the Company's shares by directors, employees and
connected persons.
The Company's policy with regard to whistleblowing and health and
safety is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages
30 and 31. The board of directors' consideration of the adequacy of
the Group's resources to enable it to continue in operational existence
for the forseeable future is set out on page 19.
Hamworthy plc
Hamworthy_13082AR 2009_p34_p43:Layout 1  10/6/09  13:59  Page 39