 Governance
Hamworthy plc Annual report 2011 40
Corporate governance
The Company is listed on AIM. Although the rules of AIM do not require the Company to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code ) that was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010, the Board has nevertheless resolved to do so having regard to the 
size and specific requirements of the Company. Accordingly it does not seek to comply with provisions E.1.1 and E.1.2 which deal with 
communication between major shareholders and non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The Board
The Company has appointed non-executive directors to bring an independent view to the Board and to provide a balance to the executive 
directors. The Board of directors comprises two executive directors and three non-executive directors, one of whom is the Chairman, 
Gordon Page, and another is the senior independent director, Alan Frost.
The Board is actively pursuing a succession strategy which will result in the replacement of each of the existing non-executive directors as 
they retire progressively over the period to July 2014.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors is independent within the meaning of the Code.
The Chairman meets with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present at least once each year.
The Board meets every two months and in advance of each regular meeting, receives a board pack with the information necessary for it to 
discharge its duties. These packs include financial data, reporting on health and safety, controls and risk assessments and detailed individual 
reports from each executive director. The Board has responsibility for formulating, reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, budgets, 
major items of expenditure, acquisitions and the directors' report and annual and interim financial statements.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take professional advice at the 
Company's expense.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against directors as well as against material loss or claims 
against the Group and reviews the adequacy of cover regularly. The Company has also entered an agreement with each of its directors 
whereby the director is indemnified against certain liabilities to third parties which might be incurred in the course of carrying out his duties 
as a director. These arrangements constitute a qualifying third-party indemnity provision for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
There is a formal schedule of matters, decisions on which are reserved to the Board. There is also a schedule of the division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. Both schedules are reviewed by the Board at least annually.
Early in 2011, the Board undertook a further triennial formal external assessment of its performance and effectiveness using the services of 
an outside consultant (Edis-Bates Associates). Full results of this review will be made available after the date of this report.
Board committees
The Board has established three committees: audit, remuneration and nominations. Each has written terms of delegated responsibilities and 
each is chaired by a different non-executive director. The Company Secretary is secretary to each committee. A copy of each committee's 
terms of reference can be found at the Company's website www.hamworthy.com. 
Audit committee
The audit committee consists of Gordon Page, Alan Frost and James Wilding and is chaired by Alan Frost. It meets at least three times a year 
with attendance from the external auditors and internal personnel as required. The committee is responsible for: 
  ensuring that the appropriate financial reporting procedures are properly maintained and reported on;
  meeting the auditors and reviewing their reports relating to the Group's accounts and internal control systems;
  reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditor and the objectives and effectiveness of the audit process;
  receiving and reviewing all internal operational review reports; and
  reviewing arrangements by which staff may in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or 
otherwise and receiving and dealing with matters reported under the Group's whistleblowing policy. 
The Group's internal audit function has written terms of reference, reports independently to the audit committee and has direct access to 
the Chief Executive. It has responsibility for a programme of reviews to cover all businesses in the Group on a rolling basis and with agreed 
scope of work. In addition, the head office finance team, led by the Group Finance Director, undertakes a programme of operational reviews 
at the Group's businesses which includes internal control implementation. Both the internal audit and operational review programmes are 
integrated with the risk assessment process.
The external auditors have carried out non-audit services to the Group during the year. The committee has considered the effect of this work 
on the objectivity and independence of the external auditor. Having regard to the scale and nature of these services, the committee has 
concluded that the auditors' objectivity and independence are not impaired.
The committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditors from the market and noted that there are no contractual 
obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee reviewed:
  the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors' independence and objectivity;
  the external auditors' fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variation therefrom;
  the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
  the content of the external auditors' reporting on internal control.
Following the above, the committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditors. 41 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2011
Governance
Governance	 Corporate	 governance
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee consists of Gordon Page, Alan Frost and James Wilding and is chaired by James Wilding. It meets at least 
twice a year and is responsible for reviewing the performance of the executive directors and other senior executives and for determining 
appropriate levels of remuneration. The Chief Executive is invited to participate in the committee's deliberations on all matters except 
consideration of his own compensation. The committee's report is set out on pages 37 to 39.
Nominations committee
The nominations committee consists of Gordon Page, Alan Frost, James Wilding and Joe Oatley and is chaired by Gordon Page. 
The committee reviews the size, structure and composition of the Board and makes recommendations on changes, as appropriate. 
It also gives consideration to succession planning in the light of developments in the business. 
The attendance of directors at Board and committee meetings throughout the year was as follows:
      Audit  Remuneration Nominations 
     Board committee committee committee
Gordon Page    6 (6)  3(3) 4 (4) 2 (2)
Paul Crompton    6 (6)   
Alan Frost    6 (6)  3(3) 4 (4) 2 (2)
Joe Oatley    6 (6)    2 (2)
James Wilding    6 (6)  3(3) 4 (4) 2 (2)
Figures in brackets show the number of meetings which could have been attended.
Shareholder relations
The Company meets with institutional shareholders and analysts as appropriate and uses its website to encourage communication with 
private, existing and prospective shareholders. Hamworthy plc welcomes feedback from investors about its published reports and website. 
Please address your feedback to our investor relations team by email to investor@hamworthy.com or in writing to Hamworthy plc, 
Fleets Corner, Poole, Dorset BH17 0JT.
Internal control and risk management
The Group operates a system of internal control which is developed and reviewed in accordance with the guidance published by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives. The Board is responsible for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. It can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board operates a formal process of risk assessment and reporting. Each major business unit carries out formal risk assessments annually 
and regularly updates these during the year. The assessments are carried out using, where appropriate, a standard categorisation of risk. 
Reports on the assessments and mitigation actions of all significant risks are provided to the Board.
The Group operates an internal audit function, details of which are provided in the audit committee section of this report.
The Board recognises that an essential part of its responsibility is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of liabilities and 
the accurate reporting of results. The Group has a comprehensive system for regular reporting to the Board. This includes an annual planning 
and budgeting system with budgets approved by the Board. The financial reporting system compares against budget and prior year and 
reconsiders its financial year forecast all on a monthly basis.
The Board has established a formal policy of authorisation setting out matters which require its express approval and certain authorities 
delegated to the executive directors.
The Group operates in a multi-currency environment and is exposed to a number of foreign currency risks. The Board has set a policy for the 
management and reporting of those risks and this is set out in more detail in the financial review on pages 18 and 19 and in note 31 to the 
financial statements.
The Company has established a policy and share dealing code relating to dealing in the Company's shares by directors, employees and 
connected persons.
There is a group-wide Code of Ethics and Business Conduct to which all employees are required to adhere. Monitoring of compliance is included 
within the internal audit programme. This code reflects the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010. The Group has appointed a Bribery Act 
Compliance Officer and during 2011 will develop its control processes further in light of the Ministry of Justice Guidance to the Act.
The Company's policy with regard to whistleblowing and health and safety is included in the corporate social responsibility report on 
pages 30 to 33. The Board of directors' consideration of the adequacy of the Group's resources to enable it to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future is set out on page 19.