 Corporate governance
24
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2003
The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and has reviewed and strengthened its policies
in readiness to meet the requirements of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003.
Set out below is a summary of the procedures and practices adopted by the Board to ensure compliance with the
Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code for Corporate Governance and the steps
taken to comply with the revised Combined Code. 
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The Board considers that the Company complies, and has complied throughout the financial year with the Provisions
of the Combined Code issued by the London Stock Exchange in June 1998, save for the following exception.
Following the death of Mr D Craig-Wood, the number of Non-Executive Directors was less than three and
consequently the Company did not comply, until the appointment of Mr A J McWalter, with Code provision D.3.1 in
that the audit committee did not comprise the recommended three Non-Executive Directors.
THE BOARD
The Board currently comprises three Non-Executive and four Executive Directors. Details of the Directors can be
found on page 12. The Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent. Under the revised
Combined Code Mr M R Hornstein would not be considered independent as he was previously Chief Executive
Officer, however, the Board considers the advice and leadership given by Mr Hornstein to be independent. Dr M A
Chamberlain is the Senior Non-Executive Director. The Board held eleven board meetings during the year attended
by all the directors with the exception of Mr A J McWalter who attended all meetings since his appointment in
January 2003.
The Board receives briefing papers prior to meetings as is required to properly fulfil its duties. The Board also receives
financial and operational reports on a monthly basis. The Board is responsible for policy and strategy of the Group
and has a Schedule of Matters, which is specifically reserved for its decision, these include determining overall group
commercial strategy, review of the performance of the Group, responsibility for monitoring exposure to key business
risks, approving annual budgets, determining acquisition and investment policy and approval of major capital
expenditure and development projects. Operational decisions are delegated to the Executive Directors.
Board meetings are held at each of the Group's operating locations at least once a year and the Board receives
presentations from subsidiary management to ensure Non-Executive Director familiarity with the business.
The Directors are entitled to take independent legal advice at the expense of the Company and all have access to
the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board considers that the calibre and number of the Non-Executive Directors is sufficient to provide an
independent influence to the Board. 
The current process for evaluating the performance of the Board, it's Committees and the Directors will be reviewed
in the coming year to ensure that it is in line with the revised Combined Code and current best practice. Corporate governance
25
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2003
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee. All are
formally constituted with written terms of reference. The terms of reference have recently been amended to comply
with prevailing best practice and in particular the terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been amended
with reference to the Smith Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Committee is chaired by Mr A J McWalter and comprises Mr M R Hornstein and Dr M A Chamberlain. The
committee met three times in the year with all members in attendance and is responsible for reviewing matters
relating to financial reporting, accounting policies, compliance with accounting standards, keeping under review
the company's internal controls and risk management systems, reviewing the company's whistleblowing 
procedures, the appointment of external auditors and approval of their fees, reviewing annually the need for an
internal audit function and other such functions as the Board may request. The Executive Directors are typically
invited to attend the meetings. The external auditors also attend by invitation and have access to the Committee
for independent discussion.
The Auditors provide tax advice to the Group in the normal course of business. Any further services with a value over
 50,000 would require Board approval.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Committee is chaired by Mr M R Hornstein and comprises the Non-Executive Directors and Mr A W Morcombe.
The Committee met once in the year with all members in attendance and is responsible for reviewing the structure,
size and composition of the board, consideration of succession planning and making recommendations to the Board
regarding proposed appointments of Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The appointment of the Chairman is a
matter for all the Directors of the Board.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The formation and work of the Remuneration Committee is discussed within the Directors' Remuneration Report
on page 20.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company communicates with its shareholders through the Annual Report and Interim Report and maintains an
ongoing dialogue with institutional investors. The Board welcomes all shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
where they are able to put questions to the Board.
The Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director are available to meet with major shareholders if requested. The
Chairman is the primary point of contact for corporate governance and related matters. Corporate governance
26
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2003
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group's systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. This includes
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures. However it should be recognised
that such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss,
as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate those risks that may affect the Company from achieving its business
objectives.
The Turnbull report provides further guidance as to how the Code principles on internal control should be applied in
practice. A formal ongoing process has been established to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced
by the Group.
The Directors have reviewed the internal control system during the year to ensure that it remains effective and have
continued to strengthen these controls where appropriate. A key control procedure is the day-to-day involvement
of the Executive Directors in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular management meetings of
the operating companies. Other key procedures that have been established and which are designed to provide
effective internal control for the Group are:
  The Group seeks to recruit high calibre personnel to ensure that appropriate standards of control operate within
the Group. The Group has an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility. Operating and
financial responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to local boards.
  Group Management are required to assess key risks and related control and monitoring procedures applicable
to their parts of the business. The Board monitors this process.
  The Company and each of its operating businesses prepare annual business and financial plans. These are
reviewed by the Board, which approves the overall Group business plan for each year. Each plan includes
monthly phased profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cashflow forecasts. Revisions to forecasts are made
each quarter. Management information, with trading commentaries and comparing actual results to budgets
and reforecasts, is prepared monthly together with analyses of any variances.
  Control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the financial and other records. The
Board is required to approve significant investment decisions including all acquisitions. There is an established
procedure for the authorisation of capital expenditure and proposals for significant software development
programmes are considered by the Board, which also receives regular progress reports.
  Research and development across the Group is controlled and monitored to ensure that only appropriate
development is undertaken and that projects are properly managed.
  All major contracts are reviewed by the Group's Commercial Director and regular progress reports on the
implementation and rollouts of significant contracts are received by the Executive Directors.
  Group Human Resources Policies and Procedures documented.
  Group Health and Safety Policy documented.
  Regular review of security of software and websites. Corporate governance
27
Alphameric plc for the year ended 30 November 2003
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Board and Audit Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that the
size of the Group does not warrant a separate audit function. Group executives perform periodic internal audits on
main areas of activity at subsidiaries. The Board and the Audit Committee will continue to review this decision going
forward.
GOING CONCERN
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By Order of the Board
JA Soulsby
Secretary
9 February 2003