 Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
over expenditure, regular reconciliations and management accounts. Most of the assets are owned jointly with others, budgets and expenditures 
are rigorously reviewed and approvals as well as project audits take place with respect to capital and operating expenditures on a regular basis.
The Directors are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern
The Company's business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future operations, financial position, and liquidity position are set out in 
the Chairman's Statement, Chief Executive's Statement, Review of Operations, Financial Review, and the Risks and Uncertainties section of the 
Annual Report. In addition, note 25 to the consolidated financial statements discloses the Company's financial risk management practices with 
respect to its capital structure, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, and other related matters.
The Directors, having made due and careful enquiry, are of the opinion that the Company has adequate working capital to execute its operations 
and has the ability to access additional financing, if required, over the next 12 months. The Directors, therefore, have made an informed judgement, 
at the time of approving financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. As a result, the Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the annual financial statements in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Non-compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Company did not comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code in the following matters during 2011.
Code provision Subject matter Discussion
B.1.1 Non-Executive Directors meeting 
independence requirements
Paul Mortimer and Pradip Shah have served for more than nine years. 
As a result, under the Company's policy, both Directors are subject to 
annual re-election.
Paul Mortimer, Pradip Shah and Carol Bell were granted share options  
in 2005 when the Company's Ordinary Shares were listed on AIM.
The Board has confirmed, notwithstanding the above, that all of the 
Non-Executive Directors are independent.
C.3.4 Audit Committee whistleblower 
arrangements
The Audit Committee has made arrangements for the adoption of a formal 
whistleblower policy in conjunction with an overarching Employee Code 
of Conduct. 
The Employee Code of Conduct is expected to be adopted by the 
Board later in the year at which time a copy will be published on 
the Company website.
D.1.3 Remuneration for Non-Executive 
Directors should not include  
share options
Share options were granted in 2005 to Non-Executive Directors when 
the Company was listed on AIM and not subject to the Code. 
The Company has changed its policies whereby no share options have 
been granted to Non-Executive Directors since 2005.
The Board believes that its composition is suitable having regard to its international stature with a focus on India. Notwithstanding the long tenure 
of some of the Directors, the Board believes all of the Non-Executive Directors provide valuable advice and counsel in furthering the business 
objectives of the Company. 
Although Hardy is a publicly-listed company and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange's main market for listed securities since 
February 2008, the Company continues to be an early stage exploration company with limited cash flows and a modest employee base of 
approximately 37 people. The Company has a clear mandate to optimise the allocation of limited resources to support its exciting exploration 
programme. As such, the Company strives to maintain a balance between conservation of limited resources and maintaining robust corporate 
governance practices. As the Company evolves, the Board is committed to addressing specific Code deficiencies and enhancing the 
Company's corporate governance policies and practices deemed appropriate for the size and maturity of the organisation.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
6 March 2012  Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
34/35
The Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors and oversees 
the Company's financial reporting and internal controls, and provides 
a formal reporting link with the external auditors. The full terms of 
reference for the Audit Committee are available on the Company's 
website: www.hardyoil.com.
The Committee met four times during the year. The attendance of 
members at the Audit Committee meetings held in 201 1 was as follows:
Director Meetings attended
Dr Carol Bell (Chairman*) 4
Ian Bruce 4
Pradip Shah 4
Peter Milne** -
* Chairman of the Audit Committee until the Company's next Annual General Meeting  
in May 2012
** Will be appointed Chairman following the Company's next Annual General Meeting  
in May 2012 
The Audit Committee acts as a preparatory body for discharging 
the Board's responsibilities in a wide range of financial matters by:
 - Monitoring the controls that are in place to ensure the integrity 
of the financial information reported to shareholders.
 - Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting 
policies and disclosures in financial reports.
 - Overseeing that an effective system of internal control and risk 
management systems are maintained.
 - Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing 
the scope and results of audits.
 - Providing a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors, 
including regular in-camera discussions.
 - Approving non-audit services provided by the external auditors, 
or any other accounting firm.
 - Ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors is safeguarded when appointing them to conduct 
non-audit services.
 - Ensuring compliance with legal requirements, accounting 
standards and the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and Accounts and the half-yearly reports remains with the 
Board. Some or all Executive Directors attend meetings of the Audit 
Committee by invitation.
The Code requires that at least one member of the Audit Committee 
has recent and relevant financial experience. Dr Carol Bell, who was 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee for 2011, has over 30 years of 
oil and gas sector experience, most recently as managing director 
of Chase Manhattan's Global Oil & Gas Group. Mr Ian Bruce is a CA, 
CBV and CF and until his retirement in 2011 was the co-chairman of 
Peters & Co. Limited, an independent, fully integrated investment 
dealer in the Canadian energy sector. Mr Pradip Shah is also a 
chartered accountant. As a result the Board is satisfied that the 
Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company's external auditors are Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP and 
the Audit Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit 
services they provide to the Group. In 2011 Crowe Clark Whitehill did 
not provide non-audit services to the Company.
In 2011 the Finance Director and the Chief Financial Officer of Hardy 
Exploration & Production (India) Inc. were invited to attend each 
meeting of the Audit Committee during 2011. The external auditors 
have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee Chairman. During 
the 2011 audit process, the Audit Committee Chairman met with the 
audit engagement partner from Crowe Clark Whitehill, without the 
presence of management.
In 2011, the Audit Committee met on four occasions. The key work 
undertaken by the Committee was as follows:
Consideration and review of full-year and half-yearly results
 - The Audit Committee met with the external auditors as part of the 
full-year and half-yearly accounts approval process.
Audit planning and update on relevant accounting developments
 - The Audit Committee approved the scope of the work to be 
undertaken by the external auditors for interim and year-end 
statutory audits.
Consideration and approval of the risk management framework, 
appropriateness of key performance indicators
 - The Audit Committee considered the recommendations put 
forward by the Executive to adopt a risk management framework 
which provides for a systematic approach to risk identification 
and management which combines the Board's assessment of risk 
with risk factors originating from and identified by the Group's 
senior management.
 - The Executive provided clear updates of risk and uncertainties 
facing the Company and accompanying actions to mitigate such 
risk for the Company's Interim and Annual reports.
 - The Audit Committee undertook a review of the key performance 
indicators that had been adopted by the Company in previous 
years. As a result of the review the Company has modified its 
reported key performance indicators for 2011.
Absence of Financial Director
 - With the retirement of Dinesh Dattani as Finance Director 
and subsequent to the Board's decision not to appoint another 
Financial Executive to the Board, the Audit Committee considered 
the appropriateness of previous year-end audit practices. 
Mr Jeevanandam (CFO of HEPI) has previously been significantly 
involved in the preparation and delivery of the Company's year-end 
report and accounts and would continue to do so. The Chairman 
of the Committee agreed to be available to provide a higher level 
of oversight during this year's Audit process.
Review of accounting policy for exploration and evaluation assets 
and the adoption of successful efforts method of accounting
 - The Audit Committee regularly reviews the overall reasonableness 
of the Company's accounting policies. For the 2011 accounts the 
Audit Committee requested that management and the external 
auditor (Crowe Clark Whitehill) provided the Audit Committee with 
information to enable it to assess whether the full cost method of 
accounting for its oil and gas assets is consistent with those used 
by peer companies in the upstream oil and gas industry.
 - Following the review the Audit Committee deemed that the 
successful efforts method of accounting provided a reasonable 
and appropriate presentation in line with the Company's 
international oil and gas peers. As a result the Committee 
recommended the restatement of the Company's 2010 and 
2011 accounts.
Governance 
Audit Committee Report