 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE / 23
Corporate Governance 
for the year ended 31 January 2013
The Group supports the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice as set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code 
(2010).  Throughout the year ended 31 January 2013 the Company has complied with all the provisions of the Code with the exception 
of B2.1. Further details of our compliance with the Code are provided in the Statement of Internal Control. 
Application of Principles of Good Governance
Board of Directors
Throughout the financial year there were four Executive and four Non-Executive Directors. A list of Director biographies together with 
their roles is given on page 15. The Non-Executive Chairman and Chair of the Nomination Committee, Ian Kirkpatrick, announced 
his decision to retire in June 2012, this will take effect from the Annual General Meeting in June 2013. Julie Baddeley acted as Senior 
Independent Director throughout the year and will succeed Ian Kirkpatrick as the Group's Chairman. Julie also chairs the Remuneration 
Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. 
Ian Davies chairs the Audit Committee and  is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees and will succeed Julie 
Baddeley as the Senior Independent Director in June 2013.
Tom Crawford, who has extensive Group and industry experience and is not considered independent, is a significant shareholder and is 
required to put himself forward for re-election every year due to the longevity of his term. 
The Board members with executive responsibility were the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, European Managing 
Director and Group Talent Director. 
The Board meets at least 10 times per annum and has a fixed schedule for reviewing the Group's operating performance.  In addition, 
other meetings are arranged as required to deal with specific issues or transactions. The Board also has a schedule of matters and 
responsibilities specifically reserved to itself, the main items of which include:
 	 approval of the published financial results and other statements;
 	 appointments to the Board and other Board Committees;
 	 approval of the annual Group Strategic Plan and Budget;
 	 approval for acquisitions, mergers and disposals;
 	 approval for new businesses which require start-up capital;
 	 approval of capital expenditure and leasehold agreements over certain thresholds;
 	 approval of material contracts over certain thresholds and those not in the ordinary course of business; and
 	 approval of treasury policy and significant financing arrangements.
During the year attendance at the pre-arranged meetings was 100% for Board members apart from, Ian Kirkpatrick, Tom Crawford and 
Margot Katz who were each absent from two meetings. There were 12 Board meetings in the 12 months to 31 January 2013.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the overall operational and financial management of the Group within the framework set 
out by the Board.  The Executive Council sits below the Group Board and executes the day to day running of operations. The Executive 
Council is made up of senior operational management, including the Executive Directors. Outside the formal schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors make themselves available for consultation with the Executive team 
as often as necessary.
Procedural compliance is monitored by the Senior Independent Director and the Group Finance Director (who is also the Company 
Secretary) and Directors' appointment and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole. Independent professional advice and training 
are available to all the Directors.  The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation with shareholders, through the Company 
Secretary.  The Executive Directors have met with the Company's major shareholders and other potential investors on a regular basis 
and have reported to the Board on those meetings.
On joining the Board, a new Director receives appropriate induction including meeting with other Directors and senior management, 
visiting the Group's key operations and meeting the Group's principal advisers. 
The Board has a policy of providing reasonable funding for independent professional advice for all Directors in furtherance of their 
duties as Directors of the Company.
In relation to non-reserved matters the Board is assisted by a number of committees with delegated authority. 24 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board discusses and reviews its performance and membership regularly, both individually and as a whole, and continues to 
consider that it is operating effectively.  In the year, a formal survey was conducted to allow the Board to provide confidential feedback 
on its performance. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Group's senior financial management and external auditors to review the 
interim and annual financial statements, the accounting policies of the Group, its internal financial control procedures and compliance 
with accounting standards.  
The members of the Committee are Ian Davies (Chairman), Ian Kirkpatrick and Julie Baddeley. The Board considers that the 
membership of the Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its function.  
The Audit Committee Report on page 32 includes details of the Audit Committee policy, practices and engagement with external 
auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year.  The members of the Committee are Ian Kirkpatrick, Julie Baddeley and 
Ian Davies. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Julie Baddeley. The Committee's full terms of reference are available on 
the Company's website or from the Company Secretary on request.  The Remuneration Committee met three times in the year to 31 
January 2013 with full attendance by its members at the time, with the exception of Ian Kirkpatrick, who offered his apologies for one 
meeting.
The Remuneration Committee determines and approves the broad policy and specific remuneration and long-term incentive 
arrangements of the Company's Executive Directors and certain of the senior management.  The Chief Executive Officer may be invited 
to attend and speak at meetings of the Committee, but does not participate in any matter which impacts upon his own remuneration 
arrangements. 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman is set by the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 31 includes details of remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of the Directors.
Nomination Committee
The Company has a Nomination Committee, which provides a transparent process and procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors to the Board.  The members of the Committee are Ian Kirkpatrick (Chairman), Julie Baddeley, Ian Davies and Albert Ellis. The 
Nomination Committee met twice in the year ended January 2013 with full attendance by its members at the time.
 
The Committee's terms of reference, which are available from the Company's website or the Company Secretary on request include:
 
 	 responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board;
 	 evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required on the Board; and
 	 succession planning.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board maintains regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and City analysts by conducting formal presentations, being 
readily available for discussion and providing information as required.  Shareholder attendance and participation at the AGM is 
welcomed.  Amendments to the Company's articles require shareholder approval at the AGM.
Accountability and Audit
The Board made every effort to ensure that this report represents a balanced understandable assessment of the Group's position and 
prospects.
The means by which the Board maintains a sound system of internal financial control is set out below.
Internal Control
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal controls, for monitoring their 
effectiveness to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information used within the business and 
for publication, and that assets are safeguarded.  There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even 
the most effective system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE / 25
The Board identifies and appraises risks, and maintains control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, and organisational 
structure matters with formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. There are established procedures for 
planning and capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and monitoring the Group's business and its performance.  The 
Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal financial control within an established 
framework that applies throughout the Group, and is responsible for reviewing the Group's whistle blowing procedures.
The Directors believe the following to be the key procedures established to provide internal financial control:
 	 the operation of authorisation procedures;
 	 clearly delegated responsibilities;
 	 close involvement of senior management in day to day activities;
 	 setting of detailed annual budgets with detailed reporting of variance analysis on a monthly basis; and
 	 the operation of an Audit Committee, supported by an internal audit function.
During the year, the internal audit function was reviewed by the Audit Committee. Whilst there were no significant concerns raised, all 
actions required as a result of the findings were discussed and agreed as part of an Audit Committee meeting.
The Directors have reviewed the systems of internal financial control in operation during the year and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and no significant concerns were raised. The process is regularly reviewed. This process accords with the 2005 Turnbull 
Guidance.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (2010) Provisions
Throughout the year ended 31 January 2013 and to the date of this document, the Company has complied with the provisions and 
applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) with the exception of provision B2.1.
During the year, Ian Kirkpatrick, the Group Chairman, also chaired the Nomination Committee throughout the period in which his 
successor was appointed. However after the process to appoint a successor was initiated an external market-leading consultancy was 
appointed to conduct the process, including the benchmarking of internal candidates.  
The Code can be found on the FRC website (www.frc.org.uk). 
Going Concern
After having made appropriate enquiries including a review of the 2014 Group budget, medium-term plans and available banking 
facilities compared to funding requirements, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Richard Ashcroft
Company Secretary
29 April 2013