 Hays plc 33
THE COMBINED CODE
The Board of Hays plc has always based its actions on the principles of openness, integrity and accountability emphasised by the Combined Code
(the  Code') annexed to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules. This statement describes how the Company applies the principles of the Code.
THE BOARD
The Board consists of the Chairman, four executive Directors and four independent non-executive Directors. Their biographical details, which
appear on page 25, demonstrate the range of experience and independent judgement they each bring to bear on Board matters.
During the year the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were combined and the running of the Board was undertaken by the
Chairman who was also responsible for the running of the Group's businesses. The process of appointing a new Chief Executive Officer is
continuing. Mr B G Wallace is identified as the Senior Independent Director as recommended by the Code.
The Board meets ten times a year and additionally as required. Day-to-day running of the Group is delegated to a committee of executive
Directors, which meets at least once each month. The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision including
acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects, financial results, Board appointments, dividend recommendations, material contracts and
Group strategy.
A procedure exists for the Board of Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, under
the guidance of the Secretary and at the Company's expense. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary, who is
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
On appointment, and throughout their tenure, Directors receive appropriate training.
Information is provided to the Board on a timely basis. In advance of each Board meeting, Directors receive a Board pack including detailed
monthly management accounts, proposed acquisitions and disposals and major capital and operating expenditure requests.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference requiring it to identify and select candidates in connection with any proposed new
appointments of Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments. Mr R A Lawson chairs the Nomination
Committee and all four non-executive Directors, Mrs Knox, Messrs Danon, Taylor and Wallace, are members of the Committee.
RE-ELECTION
Non-executive Directors are not appointed for a specific term but all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity
after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at regular intervals in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association. In practice,
all Directors are required to stand for re-election to the Board at least every three years. The names of Directors submitted for election or re-
election are detailed in the Report of the Directors on page 30.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The executive Directors of the Company have a regular dialogue with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting (the  AGM') is used as an opportunity to communicate with private shareholders. In addition, as soon as they
are announced, interim and final results are posted on the Company's website, www.hays.com. It is intended that the Notice of the AGM to be
held on 20 November 2002 will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged
on each resolution will be available. Each substantially separate issue is proposed in the Notice of AGM as a separate resolution and there is a
separate resolution relating to the Report and Accounts. Furthermore, it is intended that the Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and
Remuneration Committees will be present at the AGM.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive Director, chairs the Remuneration Committee. Messrs Danon, Taylor and Wallace, also
independent non-executive Directors, are members of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference and determines on behalf of the Board the remuneration and benefits of the
executive Directors of the Company and ratifies proposals made by executive Directors in respect of the remuneration and benefits of selected
senior managers in the Group. In formulating its remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee gives full consideration to the matters set
out in Schedule A to the Code.
The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of non-executive Directors, after taking into account fees payable by comparable
companies and external advice.
Corporate Governance INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness. A review has been
completed for the year ended 30 June 2002 in accordance with the recommendations of Turnbull. The Group's systems and controls are
designed to safeguard the Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of information used within the business and for publication. Systems are
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key features of the internal control systems, which operated throughout the period
covered by the financial statements and to the date of signing the accounts, are described below.
Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations of the business has been delegated to Divisional Boards. This ensures that
the businesses obtain maximum leverage from sector-specific skills. Clear lines of authority exist between the Group's executive management
and the Divisional Boards. As far as possible subsidiaries are given autonomy, whilst operating within an established internal control
environment as set out in the Group Policies and Procedures Manual. The Manual is designed to ensure that significant risks, investment
decisions and management issues are escalated to Group Board level at the earliest opportunity. The Group Policies and Procedures Manual has
been comprehensively reviewed and updated during the year.
Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Group. These include taxation, treasury, property, insurance and
litigation. These functions report directly to the Board via the Group Finance Director. Procedures are clearly defined to ensure that the activities
of these functions reduce the risk profile of the organisation. An overview of the Group's treasury policy is set out on page 23.
The Group has an embedded process for the identification, evaluation and reporting of major business risks. Policies and procedures have
been laid down for the regular review and management of issues arising. Progress on the management of key issues is reported through the
management structure to executive management and to the Board.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system. Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at business,
Divisional and Group level. This process includes the identification and quantification of significant risks relating to markets and operations.
Monthly performance is reported against budget and prior year. The monthly management accounts analyse and explain variances against plan
and report on key indicators. In addition, progress against the annual budget is comprehensively reviewed on a quarterly basis, with detailed
explanations for variances and movements in forecast provided to the Board.
The Group has an internal Operational Review department and the resources of this department are augmented with independent expert
external resources, wherever necessary, to review risk and monitor compliance with Group procedures. Regular reviews of the most important
controls are undertaken to ensure that key control objectives are achieved. Reports on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls
are regularly presented to executive management and to the Audit Committee and recommendations are agreed upon and implemented. The
focus of the Operational Review department is increasingly non-financial.
The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through management review by executive management reporting to the Board. This is
supplemented by reviews undertaken by the Operational Review department on the controls in operation in each individual business.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference requiring it to examine all financial statements and preliminary announcements, consider
the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted and to consider whether the financial statements give a true and fair view. The Audit
Committee considers the appointment of external auditors and the scope, materiality and results of their work. It also oversees the risk and
operational review function and considers compliance with legal, regulatory, ethical and other issues.
Mr C S Taylor, an independent non-executive Director, chairs the Audit Committee. Mrs Knox and Messrs Danon and Wallace, also
independent non-executive Directors, are members of the Committee.
The external Auditors normally attend Audit Committee meetings and, at the request of the Audit Committee, the Group Finance Director and
other senior financial managers will attend.
COMPLIANCE
The Directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code
except for the following matters:
 The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are combined (A.2.1). The process of appointing a new Chief Executive Officer is continuing.
  All executive Directors have service contracts terminable by the Company on two years' notice and in the opinion of the Board these are
required to retain executives of the appropriate calibre (B.1.7).
 Not all non-executive Directors are appointed for specific terms (A.6.1).
 Non-executive Directors comprised less than one third of the Board for 19 days of the year (A.3.1).
GOING CONCERN
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis since the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Hays plc 34
Corporate Governance