 Directors' Report - Governance
Corporate Governance
 
www.haysplc.com 38 
 
The Board of Hays plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and bases its actions on the principles set out in the June 
2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) published 
by the Financial Reporting Council.  
This statement describes how the Company applies the principles of 
the Code. 
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2008, the Company has, without 
exception, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code. 
Board 
The Board provides leadership and stewardship. The Board comprises 
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and five independent 
non-executive Directors. Six Directors served throughout the financial 
year. Mr A R Cox was appointed an executive Director on 1 September 
2007. Messrs D R Waxman and B G Wallace retired as Directors on 
15 November 2007. Mr R J Smelt was appointed a non-executive 
Director on 15 November 2007. The biographical details for all of the 
Directors appear on page 37, and demonstrate the range of experience 
and independent judgement they each bring to the Board on all matters.  
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its 
decision including the review of the financial results, material contracts, 
Group strategy, investor relations, Board appointments, dividend 
recommendations, major capital projects and acquisitions and 
disposals. The Board met ten times during the year.  
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans  
the programme for Board visits both in the UK and overseas, and 
presentations from senior executives during the year. During the  
year the Board visited the Company's Asia Pacific Division, reviewing 
operations and receiving presentations from local management  
on performance and opportunities.  
The agenda for the Board and it's Committee meetings is considered 
by the relevant Chairman and issued with supporting papers during the 
preceding week. For each Board meeting, Directors receive a Board  
pack including detailed monthly management accounts, briefing papers 
on commercial and operational matters and major capital projects 
including acquisitions.  
The attendance of those Directors in place at the year end at Board 
and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows: 
 Board 
Audit 
Committee 
Nomination 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
No. held 10 4 2 7
No. Attended   
R A Lawson  10 - 2 -
A R Cox
1
  8 ---
C W Eccleshare  10 3 2 7
P S Harrison 9 4 2 6
L M S Knox  10 4 2 7
R J Smelt
2
 6 --3
P H Stoneham 8 3 1 5
P Venables  10 - - -
1 appointed 1 September 2007. 
2 appointed 15 November 2007. 
A procedure exists for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to 
take independent professional advice if necessary, under the guidance 
of the Company Secretary and at the Company's expense. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who 
is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are 
complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.  
On appointment, Directors receive a formal induction, which includes 
visits to relevant business units and functions. These are tailored to the 
individual needs of the Directors and continue throughout their tenure. 
Briefing sessions on legislative and accounting developments are held 
for the Board when appropriate. 
Board independence 
The roles and responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive are 
separate. A formal division of each individual's responsibilities has been 
agreed and documented by the Board. Mr B G Wallace stood down as a 
non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director, at the conclusion 
of the Annual General Meeting on 15 November 2007 and on that same 
date Mrs L M S Knox became Senior Independent Director. 
The non-executive Directors bring an independent view to the Board's 
discussions and the development of its strategy. Their range of experience 
ensures that management's performance in achieving the business goals 
is challenged appropriately. In conjunction with the executive Directors, 
they ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management 
are both rigorous and adequate for the needs of the business. 
All the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be 
independent as detailed in the Code. 
The letters of appointment for non-executive Directors are available for 
review at the Registered Office and prior to the Annual General Meeting. 
For information regarding the Annual General Meeting please refer to 
the separate Shareholder Circular. 
Bob Lawson
Chairman Directors' Report - Governance
 
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
Performance evaluation 2008 
Building on the external review of the Board's effectiveness and the 
effectiveness of its Committees undertaken in 2007 by Egon Zehnder, 
the Board has conducted its own review in 2008. The findings of the 
review have been considered by the Board and certain actions will be 
implemented as a result. The Chairman has met with the non-executive 
Directors, without the executive Directors being present, to consider 
the findings of the review. The Senior Independent Director has also 
met with the other non-executive Directors to review the Chairman's 
performance, having consulted with the executive Directors. This has 
enabled constructive feedback to be given to each Director. As part of 
the review, the effectiveness of the Remuneration and Audit Committees 
was also considered. The Audit Committee also undertook its own 
separate review reported on page 42. 
Following the review, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the Directors 
being put forward for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment 
to the role is undiminished. 
Responsibilities and membership of Board Committees 
The Board has agreed written terms of reference for the Nomination 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee. The terms 
of reference for all three Board Committees are published on the 
Company's website, www.haysplc.com, and are also available from  
the Company Secretary at the Registered Office. 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee identifies and selects candidates in 
connection with any proposed new appointments of Directors and 
makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments. 
Mr R A Lawson chairs the Nomination Committee. Mrs L M S Knox 
and Messrs C W Eccleshare, P H Stoneham and P S Harrison were 
members of the Committee throughout the year. Mr R J Smelt was 
appointed to the Committee on 15 November 2007. Mr B G Wallace 
ceased to be a member following his retirement from the Board on  
15 November 2007. The Chief Executive attends by invitation  
when appropriate. 
During the year under review, a new non-executive Director (Mr Smelt) 
was appointed to the Board. In consultation with the Board, the Nomination 
Committee identified the type of candidate and experience needed  
for the role, using the services of a search agency, and reviewed 
external candidates for the consideration of the Board. From the 
selection of candidates, the Nomination Committee put forward  
a final recommendation for the appointment of Mr Smelt as a  
non-executive Director to the Board for approval. 
Remuneration Committee 
Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive Director, chairs the 
Remuneration Committee. Messrs C W Eccleshare, P H Stoneham  
and P S Harrison were members of the Committee throughout the 
year. Mr B G Wallace served as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee until 15 November 2007 and Mr R J Smelt was  
appointed to the Remuneration Committee at that same date.  
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the 
remuneration and benefits of the Chairman and executive Directors of 
the Company and monitors the levels of remuneration and benefits of 
selected senior managers of the Group. In formulating its remuneration 
policy, the Remuneration Committee gives full consideration to the 
matters set out in Schedule A to the Code. The Group's remuneration 
policy is described in the Remuneration Report on page 47. 
The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of non-executive 
Directors, after taking into account fees payable by comparable 
companies and after receiving external advice. 
Audit Committee 
A full report on the activities of the Audit Committee is included on page 42. 
Internal control  
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control 
and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness. The Board has 
delegated responsibility for the review of the Group's internal controls 
to the Audit Committee. A review has been completed for the year 
ended 30 June 2008 in accordance with the recommendations of  
the Turnbull Report. The Group's systems and controls are designed  
to safeguard the Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of 
information used both within the business and for publication. 
Systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
key features of the internal control systems which operated throughout 
the period covered by the financial statements and up to the date of 
signing the accounts are described below. 
Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations of the 
business has been delegated to the Chief Executive and his Management 
Board, comprising the Group Finance Director, Regional Managing 
Directors, Group Human Resources Director, Group Marketing Director 
and Group IT Director. The Company Secretary attends all Management 
Board meetings. Clear levels of authority exist for the Management 
Board. As far as possible, the business units are given autonomy, whilst 
operating within an established internal control environment as set out 
in the Group Policies and Procedures Manual. This manual is designed 
to ensure that significant risks, investment decisions and management 
issues are escalated to Board level at the earliest appropriate opportunity. 
The Group Policies and Procedures Manual is updated on an ongoing 
basis to reflect changes in procedures as and when they occur. 
Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Group. 
Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report to the Board via the 
Group Finance Director. The legal, compliance and health & safety 
functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary. Procedures 
are clearly defined to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce 
the risk profile of the organisation. An overview of the Group's treasury 
policy is set out on page 30. The Group has an ongoing process for the 
identification, evaluation and reporting of major business risks. Progress  
on the management of key issues is reported through the management 
structure to executive management and to the Board. The Group  