 Paul harrison audit committee chairman
 	 recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the external a uditor;
 	 monitor the relationship with the Company's a uditor, including 
consideration of its fees, the audit scope and the terms of its 
engagement;
 	 review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit as well 
as the a uditor's independence;
 	 review the policy on engagement of the a uditor for the provision of 
non-audit services and monitor compliance;
 	 review the Company's internal control and risk management systems;
 	 monitor the effectiveness of the Company's internal a udit function; 
and
 	 ensure the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees 
to raise concerns in confidence.
Activities of the Audit Committee 
The Committee met four times during the financial year ended 30 June 
2011. a ttendance at meetings is shown on page 39.
During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as follows: 
Financial statements 
The Committee reviewed the draft annual financial statements and half 
year report prior to recommending their approval to the Board. The 
Committee discussed with the executive directors and external a uditor 
the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted, significant estimates 
and judgements, whether the financial statements gave a true and fair 
view and the appropriateness of the going concern assumption. 
External a uditor 
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board  
for approval by the shareholders the appointment of the external 
a uditor. Deloitte ll P is the external a uditor of the Company and, under 
ethical guidance, it is required to introduce a new audit partner every 
five years. The current audit partner has been in place for five years and 
this represents his last year as audit partner for the hays audit. Following 
meetings with the Committee Chairman and the Group Finance Director 
a new audit partner has been appointed. h e has been involved in 
aspects of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended  
30 June 2011 in order to familiarise himself with the Group's activities.
in line with its terms of reference, the Committee undertook a  
thorough annual assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and 
independence of the audit provided by Deloitte llP , seeking the views 
and feedback of the Committee and fellow Board members, together 
with those of Group and divisional management. There are no 
contractual restrictions on the Committee as to the choice of 
external a uditor.
DEar shar Ehol DEr
The a udit Committee (the  Committee') is appointed by the Board from 
the non-executive directors of the Company. The Committee's terms of 
reference include all matters indicated by the u K Corporate Governance 
Code (the  Code'), which replaced the 2008 Combined Code published 
by the Financial r eporting Council. Further information on the Code can 
be found on the Financial r eporting Council's website, frc.org.uk. The 
terms of reference are considered annually by the Committee and are 
then referred to the Board for approval. 
Composition of the Audit Committee 
Paul harrison, an independent non-executive director, will continue  
to chair the Committee until the conclusion of the Company's a nnual 
General Meeting to be held on 9 n ovember 2011, when he will be 
succeeded as Committee Chairman by Victoria Jarman. l esley Knox, 
William Eccleshare and Paul stoneham were members of the 
Committee throughout the year and r ichard smelt was appointed as a 
member of the Committee with effect from 23 March 2011. l esley Knox 
will stand down from the Committee when she retires from the Board at 
the conclusion of the a nnual General Meeting.
Paul harrison, a Chartered a ccountant, is Group Finance Director of  
The s age Group plc. a s such, he is considered suitably qualified to  
be the a udit Committee Chairman. Victoria Jarman is a Chartered 
a ccountant, has a corporate finance and investment background and  
is considered to be similarly suitably qualified. The qualifications (both 
formal and by experience) of the other members of the Committee can 
be found in the Corporate Governance r eport on pages 32 and 33.
a t the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the  
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, h ead of internal a udit, Group 
Financial Controller and external a uditor attend the meetings.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the 
Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a member  
of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the 
n omination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.  
The Committee comprises five independent non-executive directors 
and two members constitute a quorum. 
Role of the Audit Committee 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Committee's terms of 
reference. These were considered to be in line with best practice and 
only minor changes were necessary to reflect the revised 2010 iCsa 's 
Guidance for a udit Committees. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are published on the Company's website, haysplc.com, and 
are also available from the Company secretary at the r egistered o ffice. 
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: 
 	 monitor the appropriateness of the financial statements and formal 
announcements relating to the financial performance including any 
significant judgements;
42
Directors' report | governance Audit C ommittee R epo Rt independence and objectivity of internal a udit and its activities, 
including the annual audit plan and resource requirements. The plan has 
delivered both geographic and financial coverage, as well as risk-based 
assurance in support of non-financial topics such as iT and hr 
processes, contract management and compliance. 
internal a udit reports include recommendations agreed with 
management to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of internal 
controls. a t each meeting, the Committee received a summary  
of new audit findings and separate details of outstanding audit 
recommendations and those that were overdue, with management 
comments on progress made. 
The Committee also met the h ead of internal a udit twice during the 
year without management being present.
r aising concerns in confidence 
The Committee reviewed the Group's procedures enabling employees 
to raise concerns in confidence. Employees are able to raise concerns  
or report compliance issues through an independent third-party 
organisation. The Committee receives reports of any serious concerns 
raised at each meeting. 
Audit committee effectiveness 
The Committee undertook its own annual performance evaluation, 
which concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with  
its terms of reference, is operating effectively and met all legal and 
regulatory requirements.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the 2011 a nnual 
General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of 
the Committee. 
o n behalf of the a udit Committee. 
paul Harrison 
a udit Committee Chairman
The Committee considered the scope and materiality of the audit  
work, considered and approved the audit fee, reviewed the results  
of the a uditor's work and considered the a uditor's performance and 
effectiveness. The risk of the a uditor withdrawing from the market  
was also considered.
The Committee met the external a uditor twice during the year without 
management being present. 
The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of the  
a uditor for non-audit services and confirmed the applicability of that 
policy in satisfying itself that their independence and objectivity was 
not impaired. 
The key features of this policy are as follows: 
 	 work closely related to the audit ( e.g. taxation or financial reporting 
matters ) can be awarded to the a uditor by the executive directors 
provided the work does not exceed  150,000 in fees per item; and
 	 all other work either requires Committee approval or forms part of a 
list of prohibited services where it is felt independence or objectivity 
may be impaired.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed by 
Deloitte ll P in the year and has concluded that the policy has been 
applied and the a uditor's independence and objectivity has not  
been impaired as a result. Details of fees paid to Deloitte ll P and its 
associates during the financial year are set out in note 7 to the 
Consolidated Financial statements on page 69.
a fter due and careful consideration, taking account of the processes 
above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte 
ll P be reappointed as the Company's a uditor at the a nnual General 
Meeting to be held on 9 n ovember 2011.
r isk management and internal control
The Committee reviewed the Company's risk management and internal 
control systems by considering the Group's risk assessment process 
which included detail of the extent of coverage, the assessment 
methods employed and the effectiveness of the controls to mitigate 
those risks. it also considered the results of testing performed by both 
the internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of 
such controls. 
internal a udit and risk
The Committee oversees the risk management and assurance activities 
including the work of internal a udit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the terms of reference of the 
internal a udit function and only minor changes were necessary.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance and 
effectiveness of the h ead of internal a udit and of the internal a udit 
function through an internal review process, seeking views from a 
number of internal stakeholders. The Committee also reviewed the 
43
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
Directors' report | governance 