 Hays PLC Annu Al Repo Rt & Fin Anci Al St Atement S 2012 48
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
The Audit Committee (the Committee)  
is appointed by the Board from the 
non-executive directors of the Company. 
The Committee's terms of reference 
include all matters indicated by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
published by the Financial Reporting 
Council. Further information on the Code 
can be found on the Financial Reporting 
Council's website, frc.org.uk. The terms of reference are considered 
annually by the Committee and any changes are recommended to 
the Board for approval. 
COmp OSiti On O f t HE Au Dit C Ommitt EE 
Paul Harrison, who remains a member of the Committee, stood 
down as the Committee Chairman and was succeeded by Victoria 
Jarman on conclusion of the Company's Annual General Meeting 
held on 9 November 2011. William Eccleshare, Richard Smelt and 
Paul Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the 
year. Victoria Jarman was appointed a member of the Committee 
with effect from 1 October 2011 and Pippa Wicks was appointed as  
a member of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012. Lesley 
Knox stood down from the Committee when she retired from the 
Board at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting. 
Victoria Jarman, the Committee Chairman, is a Chartered Accountant, 
has a corporate finance and investment banking background and is 
considered suitably financially qualified to be the Audit Committee 
Chairman. Paul Harrison is also a Chartered Accountant. He is Group 
Finance Director of The Sage Group plc and is considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience. The qualifications (both 
formal and by experience) of the other members of the Committee can 
be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 and 39.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit, 
Group Financial Controller and external Auditor attend the 
Committee meetings.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the 
Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a member  
of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the 
Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board. 
The Committee comprises six independent non-executive directors 
and two members constitute a quorum. 
ROLE Of t HE Au Dit C Ommitt EE 
During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference  
and two minor amendments were made. The first related to the 
monitoring of the relationship with the Auditor whereby the Committee 
should consider whether the fees for audit and non-audit work 
provided by the Auditor were appropriate and whether an effective 
audit could be provided for the audit fee. The second was to confirm 
that the Committee should meet four times a year. The terms  
of reference of the Committee are published on the Company's 
website, hays.com, and are also available from the Company 
Secretary at the Registered Office. 
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: 
 	 consider the appropriateness of the Company's financial 
statements and, other than quarterly trading statements, examine 
formal announcements relating to its financial performance 
including any significant judgements;
 	 recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the external Auditor;
 	 monitor the relationship with the Company's Auditor, including 
consideration of its fees, the audit scope and the terms of its 
engagement;
 	 review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit  
and the Auditor's independence;
 	 review the policy for the provision of non-audit services and 
monitor compliance;
 	 monitor and review the Company's internal control and risk 
management systems and their effectiveness;
 	 monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company's Internal 
Audit function and to approve the Internal Audit plan; and
 	 ensure compliance with laws, regulations, ethical and other areas 
and ensure that the Company maintains suitable arrangements  
for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Quarterly trading statements are reviewed by a special committee 
established for the purpose comprising the Committee Chairman, 
the Senior Independent Director, the Group Finance Director and  
the Chairman.
ACtiviti ES Of t HE Au Dit C Ommitt EE 
The Committee met four times during the financial year ended  
30 June 2012. Attendance at meetings is shown on page 45.
During the year the Committee received updates and presentations 
from the Tax, Treasury, Insurance, Legal, Compliance and IT functions 
and the Committee also received a report on the performance of the 
Group's key finance personnel. The Committee discharged its other 
responsibilities as follows: 
f inancial statements 
The Committee reviewed the draft annual financial statements  
and half year report prior to recommending their approval to the 
Board. The Committee discussed with the executive directors and 
external Auditor the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted, 
significant estimates and judgements, whether the financial 
statements gave a true and fair view and the appropriateness  
of the going concern assumption. 
External Auditor 
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board  
for approval by the shareholders the appointment of the external 
Auditor. Deloitte LLP is the external Auditor of the Company and, 
under ethical guidance, is required to introduce a new lead audit 
partner every five years. Following meetings with the Committee 
Chairman and the Group Finance Director, a new lead audit partner 
was appointed following the 2011 year end results. In line with its 
AuDit CO mmitt EE REp ORt 49 directors' report Governance terms of reference, the Committee undertook a thorough annual 
assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence  
of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP, seeking the views and feedback 
of the Committee and fellow Board members, together with those  
of Group and divisional management. There are no contractual 
restrictions on the Committee as to the choice of external Auditor.
The Committee considered the scope and materiality of the audit 
work, considered and approved the audit fee, reviewed the results  
of the Auditor's work and considered the Auditor's performance and 
effectiveness. The risk of the Auditor withdrawing from the market 
was also considered.
The Committee met the external Auditor twice during the year 
without management being present. 
The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of  
the Auditor for non-audit services and reduced the value of 
permitted non-audit services which may be provided in a year  
from 1.5 times the prior year's audit fee to 1 times the fee. The 
Committee confirmed the applicability of that policy in satisfying 
itself that their independence and objectivity was not impaired. 
The key features of the non-audit services policy are as follows: 
 	 work closely related to the audit (e.g. taxation or financial 
reporting matters) can be awarded to the Auditor by the executive 
directors provided the work does not exceed  150,000 in fees per 
item; and
 	 all other work either requires Committee approval or forms part  
of a list of prohibited services where it is felt independence or 
objectivity may be impaired.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed by 
Deloitte LLP in the year and has concluded that the policy has been 
applied and the Auditor's independence and objectivity has not 
been impaired as a result. Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP and  
its associates during the financial year are set out in note 7 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76.
After due and careful consideration, taking account of the processes 
above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte 
LLP be reappointed as the Company's Auditor at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 7 November 2012.
Risk management and internal control
The Committee reviewed the Company's risk management and 
internal control systems and their effectiveness by considering  
the Group's risk assessment processes which included detail of  
the extent of coverage, the assessment methods employed and  
the effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks. It also 
considered the results of testing performed by both the internal and 
external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of such controls. 
internal Audit and risk
The Committee oversees the risk management and assurance 
activities including the work of Internal Audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the terms of reference  
of the Internal Audit function and determined that no changes  
were necessary.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance and 
effectiveness of the Head of Internal Audit and of the Internal Audit 
function through an internal review process, seeking views from a 
number of internal stakeholders. The Committee also reviewed the 
independence and objectivity of Internal Audit and approved the 
annual audit plan and resource requirements. The plan has delivered 
both geographic and financial coverage, as well as risk-based 
assurance in support of non-financial topics such as IT, contract 
management and compliance. 
Internal Audit reports include recommendations agreed with 
management to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of internal 
controls. At each meeting, the Committee received a summary  
of new audit findings and separate details of outstanding audit 
recommendations and those that were overdue, with management 
comments on progress made. 
The Committee also met the Head of Internal Audit twice during  
the year without management being present.
Raising concerns in confidence 
During the year the Committee reviewed the Group's procedures 
enabling employees to raise concerns in confidence. Employees  
are able to raise concerns or report compliance issues through  
an independent third-party organisation. The Committee receives 
reports of any serious concerns raised. 
Audit Committee effectiveness 
The Committee undertook its own annual performance evaluation, 
which concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with 
its terms of reference and is operating effectively. In the coming  
year the Committee will continue to focus on risk measures and 
mitigating actions, non-financial risk topics and further evolution  
of the Group's risk management processes.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the 2012  
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work  
of the Committee. 
On behalf of the Audit Committee. 
victoria Jarman 
Audit Committee Chairman