 Abacus Group plc is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. These statements describe
how the Company applies and complies with the principles of the Combined Code, annexed to the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to its shareholders.
Statement of compliance with Code of Best Practice
In the year to 30 September 2002, the Company complied with all the principles of the Combined Code with two
exceptions. It did not comply with paragraph A3.1, which recommends that more than one third of the Directors on
the Board should be non-executive Directors. Also it did not comply with paragraph D3.1, which recommends that
the Audit Committee should be constituted with at least three non-executive Directors. As mentioned in the
Chairman's Statement, an additional non-executive Director will be joining the Board and Audit Committee on
1 January 2003, from which date the Company will be compliant with all the principles of the Code.
The Board of Directors
Throughout the year, the Board included a non-executive Chairman, Harry Westropp, a Chief Executive, Martin Kent,
and a senior independent Director, Gary Kibblewhite, to whom concerns may be conveyed. There were four other
executive Directors. Both non-executive Directors, who held office in the year, were considered by the Board to be
independent of management and had no relationship or interest which might have interfered with the exercise of
their independent judgement.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board, in conducting its business, follows
its procedures, best practice and complies with applicable rules and regulations. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Code Provision D3.1 requires the members of the Audit Committee to be named in the report and the financial
statements. Harry Westropp (Chairman) and Gary Kibblewhite served on the committee throughout the year.
Conduct of Board Meetings
The Board meets each month to consider matters specifically reserved to it for decision. When required, the Board
convenes between the regular meetings.
Within seven days of each meeting all members receive up to date reports on key areas of the business and
information to support decisions. Where information is insufficient to enable the Board to discharge its duties, Board
members make further enquiries.
A part of each meeting is devoted to strategy and planning, and in dealing with issues of strategy, performance,
resource allocation, key appointments and standards of conduct, Board members use their independent
judgement. In carrying out their duties, Board members may also take independent professional advice, at the
Company's expense.
Retirement by rotation
The Articles of Association of Abacus Group plc require that the Directors must submit themselves for re-election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting after appointment.
In accordance with best practice, the Articles provide that one third of the Directors retire annually by rotation, and
are eligible to submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors who have served the
longest since their last election retire in this way.
The names of Directors retiring at the next Annual General Meeting are given on page 47, and biographical details
of the Directors on page 12.
Appointments to the Board
Abacus Group plc has developed formal and transparent procedures for appointing new Directors to the Board.
These duties are discharged through the Nomination Committee, which Harry Westropp chairs and on which Gary
Kibblewhite is the other member. If appropriate, the Committee instructs external professional consultants to ensure
a wide range of candidates is put forward. Before appointing suitable candidates, the Board considers the
recommendations of the Committee.
Newly appointed Directors undertake appropriate training to enable them to discharge the responsibilities of their
office.
Remuneration Committee
To avoid potential conflicts of interest, the Board has delegated responsibility for defining remuneration policy for
executive Directors and senior management to the Remuneration Committee. The Committee comprises the non-
executive Directors, and Gary Kibblewhite is Chairman.
In framing policy, the Committee consults with the Board, and both the Chief Executive and Company Secretary
attend meetings upon invitation.
The Board is responsible for establishing the fees and responsibilities of the non-executive Directors and takes into
account relevant market information.
Corporate Governance Statements
16 Abacus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 The Remuneration report on page 18 describes the Company's remuneration policy, procedures for developing it
and for determining remuneration.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional
shareholders. The Chief Executive, Deputy Chairman and Finance Director are the main contacts. However,
individual shareholders have the opportunity to meet with the plc Directors after the Annual General Meeting to
discuss any issues they may have on an informal basis.
The Company maintains regular dialogue with institutional investors and presents the interim and preliminary results
to them.
Shareholder relations
The Company encourages participation by, and communication with its shareholders. It welcomes and responds to
all contacts by shareholders on a wide range of issues, and uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with
private investors. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the Annual General
Meeting and are available, along with operational management, to answer questions from shareholders at the
meeting.
The Annual General Meeting is conducted in accordance with the Combined Code. This includes informing
members present at the Meeting of proxy votes for and against resolutions, once the resolution has been voted on
by a show of hands.
Audit Committee and accountability
Harry Westropp is Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Gary Kibblewhite is its other member. The Committee
meets at least twice each year, and the external auditors, Chief Executive, Finance Director and members of
operational management may attend meetings. The Committee examines matters concerning the financial affairs of
the Group, internal and external audit reports, annual and interim Accounts, internal control procedures, accounting
policies and other matters referred to it by the Board. Periodically the Audit Committee reviews the cost
effectiveness of the audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditors. The Committee's proceedings are
reported to the Board and discussed by it.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control
The Board has applied Principle D.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has
been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, published in September 1999. The Board is responsible for
the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision D.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the
Group's system of internal control. The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to
consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant
weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Board has also
performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report. This assessment considers all significant
aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the Report, including the requirement for internal
audit. The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Accounts, the Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and apply them
consistently, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent and state whether applicable
accounting standards have been followed. The Directors disclose and explain any material departures from
accounting standards in the Accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the Accounts
comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern
On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
Corporate Governance Statements
Abacus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 17