 Henry Boot PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
44
www.henryboot.co.uk
Governance
Audit Committee report
Those serving as members of the Audit 
Committee (the Committee) in 2013 were 
J J Sykes (Committee Chairman), J E Brown 
and M I Gunston. Biographies of the members 
of the Committee are shown on page 8.
We all have many years of financial and 
business experience and both John Brown 
and I have relevant accounting qualifications 
and experience.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference for this Committee fully 
incorporate the Code's provisions in relation 
to its roles and responsibilities and are 
available for inspection at the Company's 
registered office.
Role of the Committee
The Committee's responsibilities include, 
amongst other matters, the following:
 I to review and consider the scope and 
effectiveness of the Company's financial 
controls, Company internal control and risk 
management systems;
 I to review the annual management report 
of the auditors, the level of fees charged 
by the auditors for non-audit services, the 
independence and objectivity of the auditors 
and the proposed nature and scope of their 
work before the audit commences. Details 
of fees paid for non-audit services are set 
out in note 3 to the Financial Statements. 
The level of these fees and the services 
provided are reviewed by the Committee 
to ensure that they do not threaten auditor 
objectivity and independence. During the year, 
the Committee reviewed the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors, 
which was confirmed in an independence 
letter containing information on procedures 
providing safeguards established by the 
external auditors. Regulation, professional 
requirements and ethical standards are 
taken into account, together with consideration 
of all relationships between the Company 
and the external auditors and their staff. 
Relations with the external auditors are 
managed through a series of meetings 
and regular discussions and we ensure a 
high quality audit by challenging the key 
areas of the external auditors' work;
 I to review and make recommendations 
to the Board in relation to the Half-yearly 
and Annual Reports;
 I to oversee the selection process with 
regard to external auditors, to consider 
the appointment/re-appointment of 
external auditors and make appropriate 
recommendations through the Board 
to the shareholders to consider at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM);
 I to review the Company's procedures for 
handling reports by  whistleblowers'; 
 I to consider annually whether there is a 
need for an internal audit function and make 
recommendations to the Board. However, 
from past experience, the use of this function 
has not resulted in added value to the 
business and this continues to be the view of 
the Committee in its deliberations this year; 
 I to monitor the integrity of the Financial 
Statements of the Company and any formal 
announcements relating to the Company's 
financial performance; and
 I to review annually the Company's 
anti-bribery policy.
Meetings during the year
The Committee met twice during the year, 
with the Company's auditors in attendance 
for part of each meeting. Attendance at these 
meetings by the Committee members is 
shown in the table on page 41.
Audit Committee matters are also discussed 
at each Board meeting.
James Sykes
Committee Chairman Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013  Henry Boot PLC
45
www.henryboot.co.uk
Shareholder information
Committee activities during the year
In 2013 the principal activities of the Committee 
and the way in which it discharged its 
responsibilities were as follows.
Financial Statements
The Committee reviewed the Group's draft 
Financial Statements, interim Financial 
Statements, Preliminary Statements and 
reports from the external auditors on the 
outcome of its reviews and audits in 2013.
Significant accounting matters
The Committee considered the following key 
accounting issues and matters of judgement 
in relation to the Group's Financial Statements 
and disclosures relating to:
Going concern
The Committee reviewed and considered in 
depth papers relating to the going concern 
disclosure in the Financial Statements. The 
Financial Statements disclose the conclusion 
of these reviews on page 60.
Construction accounting judgements
As more fully explained in our accounting policy 
on construction contracts, a significant element 
of turnover is undertaken via construction 
contracts accounted for in accordance 
with those accounting policies.
Contract costs and revenues may be affected 
by a number of uncertainties that are dependent 
on the outcome of future events and therefore 
estimates may need to be revised as events 
unfold and uncertainties are resolved.
During the year, the Committee examined 
the judgements and methodologies applied 
to uncertainties and were in agreement 
with the position adopted.
Valuation of investment property
Investment property is valued at fair value 
and, other than houses, is valued externally 
by independent valuers twice each year. 
Investment property in the course of 
construction is also valued at fair value. The 
Committee critically reviewed the valuations 
for the assets described above and was 
content with the values adopted.
Valuation of inventory
Our inventory, the vast majority of which is held 
within our strategic land business, is stated 
at the lower of cost or net realisable value. 
The disposal of this inventory is inherently 
difficult to quantify due to the uncertainty of 
timing of transactions and the vagaries of the 
UK planning system. Therefore the portfolio 
of inventory is subject to regular review by the 
Board and senior management by reference 
to development appraisals, planning agreements 
and market demand.
Independence of the external auditors
In order to ensure the independence of 
the external auditors, the Committee monitors 
the non-audit services provided by them to 
the Group and has adopted a policy on the 
provision of non-audit services by the external 
auditors with the objective that such services 
do not impair the independence or objectivity 
of the external auditors.
The Committee is required to approve services 
provided by the external auditors in excess 
of  25,000 and reviews generally all services 
provided by them to assess their independence 
and objectivity in the light of that work. These 
reviews are undertaken to ensure that the 
performance of regulatory requirements is 
not impaired by the provision of permissible 
non-audit services.
In 2013 the external auditors performed services 
in respect of a covenant review for the Pension 
Trustees in respect of the Triennial Valuation 
and assistance in securing an amendment 
to the Pension Protection Fund Levy. In both 
cases the appointment of PwC was considered 
to be the most efficient and therefore cost 
effective solution.
The external auditors also perform taxation 
services for the Group. It is the Committee's 
opinion that having the same firm perform 
both services is the most efficient method.
In accordance with best practice, the Company 
also requires its external auditor to rotate every 
five years. The statutory auditor signing the 
Audit Report is Mr Andy Ward who was 
appointed as the lead partner this year. He 
replaces by rotation Mr Ian Morrison who has 
been the statutory auditor since 2010.
The external auditors are also required to 
assess whether, in their professional opinion, 
they are independent on an annual basis, and 
those views are shared with the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the 
independence of the external auditors is not 
impaired, in particular, due to the fact that the 
senior statutory auditor has rotated this year, 
and that the amount of non-audit fees are at 
a level which does not impact on the statutory 
auditors' independence and objectivity. Henry Boot PLC  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
46
www.henryboot.co.uk
Governance
Audit Committee report continued
Committee activities during the year 
continued
Audit quality and approach to audit tender
The Henry Boot PLC Audit was put out to tender 
four years ago and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
were awarded the work from a short list of 
four firms who tendered.
Discussions took place between the Audit 
Committee, the Henry Boot PLC finance function 
and the subsidiary Company management 
teams in order to gauge the efficiency of the 
audit approach undertaken. Furthermore, the 
Committee Chairman and Committee conduct 
their own ongoing assessment through the 
quality of the external auditors' reports and the 
statutory auditor' s interaction with the Committee. 
The Committee remains satisfied with the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the audit and 
therefore does not consider it necessary for 
the audit to be re-tendered at this stage. The 
Committee continues to be satisfied with the 
work of the external auditors and its 
objectivity and independence.
Details of all amounts paid to the auditors 
for audit services are set out in note 3 to 
the Financial statements.
The Committee recommends to the Board 
that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-
appointed at the AGM and that the Directors 
are authorised to fix their remuneration.
The Committee recognises the new code 
requirement that the external audit contract 
should be put out to tender every ten years, 
notwithstanding that this requirement is 
waived in respect of smaller companies 
such as Henry Boot PLC.
Risk management and controls
Details of the key risks which face the Group, 
the key controls in place to control those risks 
and the system of risk management adopted by 
Henry Boot PLC are set out on pages 26 to 29.
The Committee has evaluated the 
effectiveness of the internal controls and 
the risk management system operated. 
The evaluation covered all controls including 
financial, operation, risk management 
and compliance.
Internal Audit
Henry Boot PLC does not have a specific 
internal audit department. The need for an 
internal audit department is considered from 
time to time and currently it is not felt that the 
benefits would outweigh the costs. If required, 
external specialists are brought in to perform 
specific reviews of areas considered a risk.
Accountability
The Committee, in having reviewed this 
Annual Report, considers that the report 
is fair, balanced and understandable. The 
report is clear and concise in its summary of 
performance in the financial year. All material 
matters of interest to shareholders and external 
stakeholders have been reported to provide 
the information required to assess the Group's 
performance, business model and strategy. 
J J Sykes
Chairman of the Audit Committee
17 April 2014
 Discussions took place 
between the Audit 
Committee, the Henry 
Boot PLC finance 
function and the 
subsidiary company 
management teams 
in order to gauge the 
efficiency of the audit 
approach undertaken. 