 Hercules Property Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 18
Introduction
On 2 December 1998 the Board met and formally adopted the
principles of good governance set out in the Code. However, in
view of the size and nature of the Group, the directors have
taken into consideration the recommendations of the Quoted
Companies Alliance. The Company's governance policies already
in place matched closely the position set out in the Combined
Code.
Narrative statement on appliance
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors meets on a monthly basis, and at a
minimum once every six weeks. Its principal focus is the overall
strategic direction, development and control of the Hercules
Group. Key matters such as the Groups strategic plan, annual
operating plan and budget, and monitoring of the company's
operating and financial performance, as well as any major
acquisitions are discussed by the Board. 
The Board consists of the Chairman, four executive and two 
non-executive directors. L G Lipman is Chairman of the Board.
Both of the non-executive directors are independent and provide
valuable experience and independent judgement on the Board. 
R M Coe has been nominated as the senior independent director
as required by the Code. Full details of the non-executive
directors are set out within the directors' biographies.
All directors are subject to the re-election provisions of the
Articles of Association, which requires them to offer themselves
for re-election, at a meeting of shareholders, at least once every
three years. 
In the event of a proposal to appoint a new director, this would
be discussed at a full Board meeting, with each member being
given the opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior to
any formal decision being taken. As permitted by the Combined
Code, due to the size of the Board, it is considered inappropriate
to establish a Nomination Committee.
The Board has a procedure for directors, in furtherance of their
duties, to take independent professional advice, if required and
this has been formally confirmed. 
Principal Board Committees and meetings
The Executive Directors meet on a weekly basis and deal 
with any decisions that do not require full Board approval. 
The directors believe that this process for making business
decisions provides sufficient division of responsibility to meet 
the requirements of the Combined Code.
The directors have also delegated certain of their responsibilities
to various committees, which operate within specific terms of
reference and authority limits. 
The Audit Committee consists solely of the non-executive
directors, R M Coe and E Young, and is chaired by R M Coe. 
It has written terms of reference and meets at least three times
per year to consider the systems of internal control, risk
management and financial reporting processes including the
review of the company's published financial reports for statutory
compliance. It also meets with the Groups external auditors,
monitors proposed changes in accounting policy and
recommends to the Board appropriate disclosure in these
reports. The terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis,
thus ensuring that the Audit Committee's duties adequately cover
all those specific areas that are identified by the code, which
includes a review of the cost effectiveness of the audit and of
non-audit services provided to the Group. The committee meets
prior to the announcement of interim and annual results and,
should it be necessary, would convene at other times.
The Remuneration Committee, which consists solely of 
non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year. 
The Remuneration Committee meets and considers, within
existing terms of reference, the remuneration policy and makes
recommendations to the Board for each executive director. 
The executive directors' remuneration consists of a package of
basic salary, performance related bonuses and share options
which are linked to corporate and individual performance
achievements and the levels of each are determined by the
Remuneration Committee. The fees of the non-executive 
directors are reviewed by the Board annually. The statement of
remuneration policy and details of each director's remuneration
is set out in the report of the Remuneration Committee.
Corporate Governance
In January 1998, the Hampel Committee published its report on
Corporate Governance, which was implemented by the London Stock
Exchange as a Combined Code on 25 June 1998. The Combined
Code requires that disclosures are made on how the fourteen principles
of the Code have been applied (known as  the appliance statement')
and whether or not the Company has complied with these principles
(known as  the compliance statement'). The Combined Code is
intended to promote the principles of openness, integrity and
accountability. The Company fully supports these principles. Hercules Property Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19
Shareholders' relations
The directors are delighted to be able to discuss the performance
of the Company with its shareholders, both institutions and
private, not just at the Annual General Meeting, but through
visiting them at various times through the year and at least after
announcing both the interim and final results. Any queries raised
by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are answered as
soon as possible by whoever is best placed on the Board to do
so. Directors are introduced to shareholders at the AGM,
including the identification of non-executive directors.
Accountability and Audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an
important part in presenting all shareholders with an assessment
of the Group's position and prospects. This is achieved by a
detailed review of operations in the Chairman's Statement.
Internal Control and Risk Management 
The board is responsible for the company's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The role of
management is to implement board policies on risk and control.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material mis-
statement or loss. 
The processes described below comply with the guidance of the
report Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code  issued by the Working Party of The Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales in September 1999 (The
Turnbull Report) and have been in place for the year under
review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report 
& Accounts. 
The company conducts a detailed risk management process,
which is aimed to be comprehensive, systematic and continuous
and is based on constant monitoring of business risk.
Management identifies the key risks facing the objectives of each
business subsidiary and reports to the board on how those risks
are being managed. This is based on each subsidiary producing
a risk register, which identifies the key risks, the probability 
of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the
actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
The subsidiary risk registers are reviewed and culminate in the
production of a strategic Group Risk Register. This identifies 
the key risks facing the Group across all the divisions under 
a number of generic risk areas. The board and its respective
committees also identify risks to its business objectives and
formulate action plans to manage these risks for implementation
at Group and subsidiary level.
The Board receives regular reports on any material issues that
have occurred during the year and how any risks have changed
over the period under review. Steps are being taken to further
embed internal control and risk management into the operations
of the business and to address areas of improvement where
required which come to management's and the board's attention.
The Group operates a strict system of internal financial control,
which is designed to ensure that the possibility of misstatement
or loss is kept to a minimum. There is a comprehensive system
in place for financial reporting and the Board receives a number
of reports to enable it to carry out these functions in the most
efficient manner. These procedures include the preparation of
management accounts, forecast variance analysis and other ad
hoc reports.
There are clearly defined authority limits throughout the Group,
including those matters which are reserved specifically for the
Board. The Board has responsibility for the system of internal
financial control and an annual review of the same is
undertaken.
The key features of the risk management process comprise the
following procedures:
  the key risks facing the Group are identified and recorded in 
a strategic risk register, along with the control mechanisms
applicable to each risk. These are presented to the Board and
approved by the Audit Committee.
  there is clear allocation of management responsibility for risk
identification analysis and control.
  the Group's internal auditor carries out continuing
assessments of risk management and control. He also
promotes effective risk management in the group businesses.
  The Audit Committee, consist solely of non-executive
directors, and is chaired by R M Coe. It meets at least three
times per year and reviews the effectiveness of the systems 
of internal control and risk management, considers the
company's published financial reports for statutory
compliance, and recommends to the Board appropriate
disclosure in these reports. 
  During the period under review the Group internal auditor
conducted detailed audits of certain subsidiaries, including
reviewing and testing of control procedures.
During the accounting period the board has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control and has conducted
a formal annual review covering all controls including financial,
operating and compliance controls and risk management.
Going concern
In compliance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority,
the directors can report that based on the Group's budgets and
financial projections, they have satisfied themselves that the
business is a going concern. The Board has a reasonable
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate
resources and facilities to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future and therefore the accounts are prepared
on a going concern basis.