 Hexagon Human Capital plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
18
Corporate Governance
The Board
Board composition and responsibilities
The Board is responsible to shareholders for   
the overall management of the Group providing 
entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of 
controls for managing risk; setting the Group's 
strategy; maintaining the policy and decision-making 
framework in which this strategy is implemented; 
ensuring that necessary fi nancial and human 
resources are in place to meet strategic aims; 
monitoring performance against key fi nancial and 
non-fi nancial indicators; overseeing the system of risk 
management; and setting values and standards in 
governance matters. 
The responsibility of the directors is collective, taking   
into account their respective roles as Executive 
Directors and Non-executive Directors.
The Board manages these matters at its regular   
meetings and away days. It receives reports and 
presentations from each of the Executive Directors 
responsible for the Group's operating businesses and 
key central functions. This ensures that all directors are 
aware of, and are in a position to monitor effectively, the 
overall performance of the Group, its development and 
implementation of strategy and its management of risk.
Board meetings and decisions
The Group's business is managed by the Board of   
Directors. The full Board met a total of ten times during 
the year to 31 March 2008. A discussion of current 
and future performance and strategy is included on 
the agenda for each meeting. In addition, the Board 
has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, 
which includes, but is not restricted to, the approval of 
interim and annual accounts, major investments and 
disposals, budgets and long term plans, litigation and 
executive remuneration and appointments.
Each Board member receives monthly management   
accounts including a review and analysis of performance 
against budget and other forecasts. Directors are sent 
an agenda and a full set of Board papers for each 
agenda item to be discussed at the meeting. Additional 
information is provided as appropriate.
Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is   
supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects 
of the proposal - costs, benefi ts, potential risks and 
proposed management action.
Board of Directors 
The Board comprises two Executive Directors, a   
Non-executive Chairman, Robert Walker, and two 
Non-executive Directors, Dr Swee Lip Quek and Peter 
Watson (replaced by Philip Kendall in April 2008).
A list of the individual directors and their biographies is   
provided on page 12. Collectively, the Board believes it 
possesses all of the necessary range of qualities, skills 
and experience to lead the Company effectively.
Robert Walker, Peter Watson and Philip Kendall are   
deemed to be independent Non-executive Directors for 
the purposes of the Combined Code.
Board Committees
The Group operates the following committees:
Audit Committee
The Board has established an Audit Committee,   
which consists of Peter Watson (now Philip Kendall) 
(Chairman) and Robert Walker. The Audit Committee 
is primarily responsible for ensuring that the fi nancial 
performance of the Company is properly measured 
and reported on and will review any reports from the 
management and the auditors regarding the accounts 
and will consider draft interim and annual accounts. 
The Audit Committee will make recommendations 
concerning the application of the fi nancial reporting 
and internal control principles, including reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Company's fi nancial reporting, 
internal control and risk management procedures and 
the scope, quality and results of the external audit. 
It will also make recommendations to the Board on 
the appointment of the auditors and the audit fee. 
The committee will meet at least twice each year and 
invite the Chief Financial Offi cer and the auditors to be 
present as appropriate.
Remuneration Committee
The Board has also established a Remuneration   
Committee made up of Robert Walker (Chairman), 
Dr Swee Lip Quek and Peter Watson (now Philip 
Kendall). The Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board on 
remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and 
the terms of their service contracts, with the aim of 
ensuring that their remuneration, including awards of 
share options, is based both on their own performance 
and that of the Group generally. The Remuneration 
Committee administers and establishes performance 
targets for the share option plan and approves awards 
made under this plan and will administer any future 
incentive schemes. 
The Group has adopted a policy of regular reviews   
of option awards and the Remuneration Committee 
meets every six months to ensure the appropriate 
incentives are in place. In addition the committee 
advises on the remuneration policy for the Group's 
employees. In exercising this role, the terms of 
reference of the Remuneration Committee requires it 
to comply with the Code of Best Practice published 
in the Combined Code. The Remuneration 
Committee also has responsibility for making 
recommendations on the appointment of additional 
directors to the Board.  Hexagon Human Capital plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
19
Corporate Governance - continued
The Company has adopted a model code for   
dealings in its Ordinary Shares by directors and 
senior employees which is appropriate for an AIM-
quoted company. 
The directors believe the Board is favourably constituted 
although, at this stage of the Group's development, it is 
felt that the functions of a Nominations Committee can be 
adequately fulfi lled by deliberation of the full Board, this will 
nevertheless be kept under review.
Maintenance of an effective 
system of internal control
The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for the 
Group's internal control systems to provide them with 
reasonable (as opposed to absolute) assurance as regards 
effective fi nancial control, operational management and 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations so as 
prevent any material misstatement or loss. 
The key elements of the Group's internal control system, all 
of which have been in place during the fi nancial year and 
up to the date these fi nancial statements were approved, 
are as follows:
Control environment
The Group has a clear organisational structure   
with defi ned responsibilities and accountabilities. 
It adopts the highest values surrounding quality, 
integrity and ethics, and these values are documented 
and communicated clearly throughout the whole 
organisation.
Identifi cation and evaluation of risks
The Board actively identifi es and evaluates the risks   
inherent in the business, and ensures that appropriate 
controls and procedures are in place to manage these 
risks. Specifi cally, all decisions relating to strategic 
partnerships and acquisitions entered into by the 
Group are reserved for the Board's review. The Board 
formally reviews the performance of all operations on a 
monthly basis. 
Information and fi nancial reporting systems
The Board approves the annual operating budgets,   
and each month receives details of actual performance 
measured against the budget.
Control procedures
Discussions with management on fi nancial   
performance and key risk areas in the business;
Monthly fi nancial reporting, for each subsidiary,   
of actual performance compared to budget and 
previous year;
Consistent format for monthly reporting of fi nancial   
and key performance information to ensure openness 
and granularity of reports;
Continuous review of fi nancial controls across   
the Group;
Routine reporting of legal, accounting and banking   
developments to the Board;
Centralised payroll, accounts receivable and accounts   
payables management;
Clear defi nition of the lines of responsibility and   
authorisation limits for the heads of all businesses.
Currently, the Group consists of six businesses, the 
largest of which has 25 staff. Controls are exercised on a 
day-to-day basis by local directors with regular overview 
from the Board and central group fi nance function. 
The audit of internal fi nancial controls forms part of the 
responsibilities of the Group fi nance function.
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to having a dialogue with 
shareholders, based on the mutual understanding of 
objectives, and it is the responsibility of the Board as 
a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does 
take place. The Board's primary shareholder contact is 
through the Chief Executive Offi cer and Chief Financial 
Offi cer. However, the other directors as appropriate, make 
themselves available for contact with major shareholders in 
order to understand their issues and concerns.
The Company is committed to constructive dialogue with 
its shareholders. The Company uses the Annual General 
Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its 
shareholders. Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which 
will be held on 23 September 2008 at 10am at 33 Cornhill, 
London, EC3V 3ND, is enclosed with this report. In line 
with the Combined Code the notice of the AGM will be 
sent to shareholders at least 21 working days before the 
meeting. Details of the resolutions and explanatory notes 
thereto are included with the Notice, which will include 
a resolution to propose appropriate amendments to the 
Company's articles of association refl ecting provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006 which are now in force. A proxy 
form for members of the Company unable to attend will 
accompany the Notice.
The Group's website www.hexagonhc.com is the primary 
source of information on the Group. This includes an 
overview of the activities of the Group, key management 
and details of all recent Group announcements.
Going concern
The directors confi rm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future, and accordingly they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the fi nancial statements.