 Hexagon Human Capital plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2009
18
COrpOrA tE GOvErNANCE
t he Board
Board composition and responsibilities
The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group providing entrepreneurial leadership  	
within a framework of controls for managing risk; setting the Group's strategy; maintaining the policy and decision-
making framework in which this strategy is implemented; ensuring that necessary financial and human resources are 
in place to meet strategic aims; monitoring performance against key financial and non-financial indicators; overseeing 
the system of risk management; and setting values and standards in governance matters. 
The responsibility of the directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and   	
Non-executive Directors.
The board manages these matters at its regular meetings and away days. It receives reports and presentations from  	
each of the Executive Directors responsible for the Group's operating businesses and key central functions. This ensures 
that all directors are aware of, and are in a position to monitor effectively, the overall performance of the Group, its 
development and implementation of strategy and its management of risk.
Board meetings and decisions
The Group's business is managed by the board of Directors. The full board met a total of ten times during the year   	
to 31 March 2009. A discussion of current and future performance and strategy is included on the agenda for each 
meeting. In addition, the board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which includes, but is not restricted 
to, the approval of interim and annual accounts, major investments and disposals, budgets and long term plans, 
litigation and executive remuneration and appointments.
Each board member receives monthly management accounts including a review and analysis of performance against  	
budget and other forecasts. Directors are sent an agenda and a full set of board papers for each agenda item to be 
discussed at the meeting. Additional information is provided as appropriate.
Any matter requiring a decision by the board is supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects of the proposal -  	
costs, benefits, potential risks and proposed management action.
Board meetings are attended by the Group Director of Finance, Robert Allin and the Managing Director of Oxygen  	
Executive Search, Ian Lloyd. Their attendance is to cover matters of specific interest in respect of the financial 
performance of the Group and the executive market (both UK and international)
Board of d irectors 
The board comprises an Executive Chairman, Robert Walker, a Chief Financial Officer, Carl Thompson and   	
a Non-executive Director, Philip Kendall.
A list of the individual directors and their biographies is provided on page 11. Collectively, the board believes   	
it possesses all of the necessary range of qualities, skills and experience to lead the Group effectively.
Philip Kendall is deemed to be an independent Non-executive Director for the purposes of the Combined Code.  	 Hexagon Human Capital plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2009
19
Business review Governance Financial
COrpOrA tE GOvErNANCE CONTINUED
Board Committees
The Group operates the following committees:
Audit Committee
The board has established an Audit Committee, which consists Philip Kendall (Chairman) and Robert Walker. The Audit  	
Committee is primarily responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly measured and 
reported on and will review any reports from the management and the auditors regarding the financial statements and will 
consider draft interim and annual financial statements. The Audit Committee will make recommendations concerning the 
application of the financial reporting and internal control principles, including reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's 
financial reporting, internal control and risk management procedures and the scope, quality and results of the external 
audit. It will also make recommendations to the board on the appointment of the auditors and the audit fee. The committee 
will meet at least twice each year and invite the Chief Financial Officer and the auditors to be present as appropriate.
Remuneration Committee
The board has also established a Remuneration Committee made up of Robert Walker (Chairman) and Philip Kendall.  	
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on remuneration policy for the 
Executive Directors and the terms of their service contracts, with the aim of ensuring that their remuneration, including 
awards of share options, is based both on their own performance and that of the Group generally. The Remuneration 
Committee administers and establishes performance targets for the share option plan and approves awards made under 
this plan and will administer any future incentive schemes. 
The Group has adopted a policy of regular reviews of option awards and the Remuneration Committee meets every six  	
months to ensure the appropriate incentives are in place. In addition the committee advises on the remuneration policy 
for the Group's employees. In exercising this role, the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee requires it 
to comply with the Code of Best Practice published in the Combined Code. The Remuneration Committee also has 
responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment of additional directors to the board. 
The Group has adopted a model code for dealings in its Ordinary Shares by directors and senior employees which is  	
appropriate for an AIM-quoted company. 
The directors believe the board is favourably constituted although, at this stage of the Group's development, it is felt 
that the functions of a Nominations Committee can be adequately fulfilled by deliberation of the full board, this will 
nevertheless be kept under review.
Maintenance of an effective system of internal control
The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for the Group's internal control systems to provide them with reasonable 
(as opposed to absolute) assurance as regards effective financial control, operational management and compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations so as prevent any material misstatement or loss. 
The key elements of the Group's internal control system, all of which have been in place during the financial year and up 
to the date these financial statements were approved, are as follows:
Control environment
The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities and accountabilities. It adopts the highest  	
values surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and these values are documented and communicated clearly throughout 
the whole organisation. Hexagon Human Capital plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2009
20
COrpOrA tE GOvErNANCE CONTINUED
Identification and evaluation of risks
The board actively identifies and evaluates the risks inherent in the business, and ensures that appropriate controls  	
and procedures are in place to manage these risks. Specifically, all decisions relating to strategic partnerships and 
acquisitions entered into by the Group are reserved for the board's review. The board formally reviews the performance 
of all operations on a monthly basis. 
Information and financial reporting systems
The board approves the annual operating budgets, and each month receives details of actual performance measured  	
against the budget.
Control procedures
Discussions with management on financial performance and key risk areas in the business;  	
Monthly financial reporting, for each subsidiary, of actual performance compared to budget and previous year;  	
Consistent format for monthly reporting of financial and key performance information to ensure openness and clarity of reports;  	
Continuous review of financial controls across the Group;  	
Routine reporting of legal, accounting and banking developments to the board;  	
Centralised payroll, accounts receivable and accounts payables management; and  	
Clear definition of the lines of responsibility and authorisation limits for the heads of all businesses.  	
Currently, the Group consists of five businesses, the largest of which has 25 staff. Controls are exercised on a day-to-
day basis by local directors with regular overview from the board and central group finance function. The monitoring of 
internal financial controls forms part of the responsibilities of the Group finance function.
r elations with shareholders
The Company is committed to having a dialogue with shareholders, based on the mutual understanding of objectives, 
and it is the responsibility of the board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does take place. The board's 
primary shareholder contact is through the Executive Chairman. However, the other directors as appropriate, make 
themselves available for contact with major shareholders in order to understand their issues and concerns.
The Company is committed to constructive dialogue with its shareholders. The Company uses the Annual General 
Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders. Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be 
held on 3 November 2009 at 10.30 am at 33 Cornhill, London, EC3V 3ND, is enclosed with this report. In line with the 
Combined Code the notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 21 working days before the meeting. Details 
of the resolutions and explanatory notes thereto are included with the Notice. A proxy form for members of the Company 
unable to attend will accompany the Notice.
The Group's website www.hexagongroup.com is the primary source of information on the Group. This includes an 
overview of the activities of the Group, key management and details of all recent Group announcements.
Going concern
These financial statements have been drawn up on a going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group has primarily financed its acquisition strategy by debt but 
current market conditions have slowed, adversely impacting the cashflow of the business. The Group has significant 
scheduled debt repayments. The board have taken action to address this downturn in activity, including reducing 
headcount and costs throughout the Group and securing arrangements to defer capital payments under its debt 
obligations. Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.