 33 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2011
Governance
Audit Commitee Report
Audit committee (the committee )
Membership
The members of the committee during the year were:
J F Lennox (Chairman) 
C J Snowdon
W H Whiteley 
Governance
The audit committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive 
Directors of the Company. The committee was in place throughout the 
year under review and for the whole of that period I was the Chairman. 
Both Clive Snowdon and I are independent non-executive Directors. In 
view of the size of the Company and the fact that it is not in the FTSE 
350, Bill Whiteley, who was independent upon appointment, continues 
to be a member of the committee. The position is kept under review by 
the Board. The committee meets at least three times per year.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and senior members of the 
finance function, along with representatives from the auditors, attend 
committee meetings by invitation in order to provide appropriate 
advice. The committee routinely meet the auditors without the 
involvement of the executive Directors. 
I have been designated as the member of the audit committee with 
recent and relevant financial experience, being a chartered accountant 
and former partner of Ernst & Young. I also chair the audit committees 
of Oxford Instruments plc, EnQuest PLC and A&J Mucklow Group plc 
and am a member of the audit committee for Dixons Retail plc.
Role and responsibilities 
The main responsibilities of the committee are to:
    monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company to 
ensure they present a balanced assessment of the Company's 
position and prospects which is understandable to shareholders and 
potential investors;
    monitor and review the effectiveness of the risk management 
systems and levels of assurance;
    oversee the effectiveness of the Group's internal audit activity;
    review the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls and 
accounting policies;
    oversee the relationship with the auditor; and
    monitor and review the Group's policies, practices and reporting 
relating to business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing.
Activities
The committee met four times during the year, timed to coincide with 
the financial reporting timetable of the Company.
The committee reviews the financial reporting of the Company, the 
effectiveness of the Group's risk management system and the systems 
for internal control. Combined with the review of the effectiveness of 
the internal and external audit functions, the committee is therefore 
able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities. 
The committee's main activities in the period under review, were:
Financial reporting
The prime financial reports reviewed were the 2011 annual report and 
financial statements, the 2011 half yearly report and the interim 
management statements issued in May 2011 and November 2011. 
The audit committee were satisfied that the financial statements 
presented a true and fair view of the Group's financial performance.
In conjunction with the above, the going concern basis for preparation 
for the financial statements was also reviewed.
Risk management
The committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group's 
internal controls, risk management and related disclosures made in the 
annual report and financial statements.
A review of the risk assessment process was undertaken by the 
committee in May 2011 and as a result a risk management framework 
and revised principal risks and uncertainties, including mitigation 
actions, were agreed by the Company. These are more fully described 
in the section on principal risks and uncertainties on pages 18 to 19. 
External audit
The committee approves the scope and terms of engagement for each 
audit and subsequently the performance of the auditor following the 
completion of each audit.
The audit committee has an agreed procedure setting out the basis 
upon which the committee will consider and make recommendations 
as appropriate concerning the appointment, re-appointment or removal 
of the external auditor. During the year, the committee has carried out 
an evaluation of the Company's external auditor KPMG Audit Plc, and 
reviewed their effectiveness. The review concluded that the external 
auditors were performing their functions effectively and the committee 
recommended to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment be 
proposed at the next AGM. 
The audit committee also considered the external auditor's 
management letter.
Jock Lennox
Chairman audit committee
The audit committee were satisfied that the 
financial statements presented a true and fair 
view of the Group's financial performance.  34 www.hsholdings.com
Auditor independence
The auditor annually confirms their policies on ensuring audit 
independence and provides the committee with a report on their own 
audit and quality procedures. This report was reviewed during the 
period under review and the committee remains satisfied of the 
auditor's independence.
During the year the committee appointed a new senior statutory 
auditor, Mike Steventon who succeeded Graham Neale. This 
appointment was carried out in line with the ethical standards of the 
Audit Practices Board which recommend that the appointment is 
rotated every five years. The committee is pleased to report that the 
handover to the new senior statutory auditor went smoothly and the 
transition was properly and effectively managed.
As part of the standard committee agenda, a review of the Group's 
policy on the use of the external auditor to carry out non-audit services 
was undertaken. This policy is consistent with the ethical standards 
recommended by the Accounting Practices Board. Included within the 
policy are activities which the external auditor cannot undertake, such 
as: those for compiling accounting records, certains aspects of internal 
audit, IT consultancy and advice to the remuneration committee. For 
any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, the 
policy provides for approval by the Finance Director of any expenditure 
below the level of  50,000 and above that figure approval of the audit 
committee Chairman. A report is also submitted to the audit committee 
of any non-audit services carried out by the external auditor, 
irrespective of value.
Where the committee believes it is more cost effective for the external 
auditor to be used, for non-audit services, that are not excluded, such 
as those relating to merger and acquisition due diligence work, it will 
consider the engagement of the external auditor, subject to application 
of the principles of the policy, including the financial limits. The 
committee also ensures strict monitoring of non-audit work and as part 
of that monitoring process in 2011, combined with a cost review, 
initiated by the Company, the Company changed its pension 
administration and actuarial services from KPMG Pensions to Deloitte 
LLP and the Legal & General plc with effect from April 2011.
Internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group 
maintains a system of internal control that will provide it with a level of 
assurance that is adequate and effective. This includes control over 
financial, operational and compliance matters and the management of 
risk, with the objective of ensuring that the assets are safeguarded and 
the shareholders' investment protected.
The responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control has been delegated to the audit committee.
Internal audit
The audit committee has set down the criteria by which it will assess 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function on an annual basis. 
During the year the performance of the internal audit function was 
reviewed as part of a report commissioned by the audit committee on 
risk assurance. As a result of this review, the structure of the internal 
audit function was changed with the adoption of peer and third party 
reviews and the appointment of a Group Risk & Compliance Counsel 
whose initial programme of work has been reviewed by the committee. 
The new approach to internal audit will deliver a flexible and more 
focused solution to the levels of risk assurance that the Group's 
structure now requires. 
Whistleblowing
The committee has also approved arrangements by which staff may 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting. The Group has a written policy which states that if any 
employee in the Group has reasonable grounds to believe that the 
Group's Codes of Business Conduct are being breached by any 
person or group of people, he or she is able to contact the Group Risk 
& Compliance Counsel with full details, or if necessary the Chairman of 
the audit committee. The Group Risk & Compliance Counsel is 
responsible for ensuring that such incidents are evaluated and 
responded to appropriately. No significant matters were raised in the 
report made to the audit committee on whistleblowing during the 
period under review.
Effectiveness review 
The committee considered it had the skills to perform its responsibilities 
and during the year reviewed its effectiveness and terms of reference, 
through processes led by myself as the committee Chairman. The 
terms of reference for the committee were amended to cater for the 
new internal audit arrangements noted above. 
The committee considered that its terms of reference remained 
appropriate, that it had acted transparently and given the number of 
committee and Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial 
year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its 
business. 
Jock Lennox 
Chairman, audit committee
15 March 2012
Audit Commitee Report continued 35 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2011
Governance
 Acquisitions: The Bergen Pipes Supprts manufacturing site at Donora Pennsylvania, USA. The site has circa 170,000 sq ft of production space and is located close to major transport links.