 Overview
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Audit Committee Report
Jock Lennox
Chairman, Audit Committee
Activities
The committee's principal activities in 2012 were:
Financial reporting
The committee reviewed and commented upon both the financial 
information and non-financial information in the group's 2011 annual 
report and 2012 interim report, including the interim statements 
prepared by management and issued in May 2012 and November 
2012. A key objective was to confirm that such reports and statements 
presented a balanced and understandable assessment of the group's 
position and prospects. 
The audit committee are satisfied that the financial statements 
presented a true and fair view of the group's financial performance 
and prospects. The audit committee also considered the external 
auditor's management letter, at the time of reviewing the 2011 annual 
report and financial statements and the going concern basis for 
preparation of those financial statements.
Interim management statements were considered by the members 
of the committee in their capacity as directors, rather than at specific 
audit committee meetings. This was considered appropriate in view of 
the limited amount of financial information contained in the group's 
interim management statements, the thorough review process 
undertaken by the board as a whole and the membership of the 
committee.
External audit
The committee approved the scope and terms of engagement of 
the audit for 2012 and subsequently reviews the performance of the 
auditor following the completion of each audit.
The audit committee has an agreed procedure setting out the basis 
upon which it considers and makes recommendations, as appropriate, 
concerning the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the 
external auditor. During the year, the committee carried out an 
evaluation of the company's external auditor KPMG Audit Plc and 
reviewed their effectiveness, this included obtaining feedback from 
the group's businesses. The review concluded that the external auditor 
performed their function effectively and the committee recommended 
to the board that a resolution for KPMG Audit Plc's re-appointment be 
proposed at the next AGM.
Key matters discussed with KPMG Audit Plc in the conduct of their 
audit were: controls, contracting, provisions, tax, impairment of 
intangible assets, accounting for acquisitions and accounting for 
pension liabilities. These matters were concluded satisfactorily.  
Auditor independence
The auditor confirmed its policies on ensuring audit independence and 
provided the committee with a report on their own audit and quality 
procedures. This report was reviewed during the period under review 
and the committee remained satisfied of the auditor's independence 
and with the rotation of the external audit personnel, which complied 
with the professional guidelines.
Whilst the group does not consider it necessary to have a policy for 
rotation of external audit firms, consideration was given to placing 
future audits out to tender. In reaching its positive recommendation 
to the board for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc, the committee 
reviewed, as part of its terms of reference, the external auditors' 
performance and effectiveness in the past year. 
The group has a policy whereby, before any former employee of the 
external auditors may be employed by the group, careful consideration 
be given to whether the independence of the auditor will be adversely 
affected and approval of the audit committee is required.
As part of the standard committee agenda, a review of the group's 
policy on the use of the external auditor to carry out non-audit 
services was undertaken. This policy is reviewed annually and such 
review forms part of the terms of reference of the committee. The 
current policy is consistent with the ethical standards recommended 
by the accounting practices board. Included within the policy are 
activities which the external auditor cannot undertake, such as: 
those for compiling accounting records, certain aspects of internal 
audit, IT consultancy and advice to the remuneration committee. For 
any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, the 
policy provides for approval by the finance director of any expenditure 
below the level of  50,000 and above that figure, approval of the 
audit committee chairman. A report is also submitted to the audit 
committee of any non-audit services carried out by the external 
auditor, irrespective of value.
Where the committee believes it is more cost effective for the external 
auditor to be engaged, for non-audit services, that are not excluded, 
such as those relating to merger and acquisition due diligence work, 
it will consider the engagement of the external auditor, subject to 
application of the principles of the policy, including the financial limits. 
During 2012, there were no fees paid to the auditors other than for 
audit services. Further details of the amounts paid are included in note 
6 of the accounts. The engagement of the external auditor on pension 
services ceased in 2011.
Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 43 Risk management
The committee reviewed the effectiveness of the group's internal 
controls, risk management and related disclosures made in the 
annual report and financial statements. It also considered separate 
internal reports on treasury, IT and risk assessment, including where 
appropriate, reports from specialist third parties.
Updated principal risks and uncertainties, including mitigation 
actions, were confirmed by the executive directors on the board of 
the company and are more fully described on pages 10 and 11. These 
principal risks and uncertainties were identified by the operating 
businesses senior management as part of the budget preparation 
process. Further work was carried out by the committee during the 
year in developing processes for risk identification and mitigation, 
through the compliance programme managed by the group risk and 
compliance counsel. 
In conjunction with the work on the new code of business conduct 
and the additional work on the Bribery Act, an assessment was made 
of the levels of due diligence covering the abilities and competencies 
of suppliers and agents, used throughout the group. This has resulted 
in improved vetting of the supply chain and agency network and 
enhanced risk mitigation. 
The compliance programme, together with the peer review work 
referred to below, has provided the committee with an appropriate 
level of reporting and management of risks arising from the growing 
complexity and international footprint of the group.
Internal controls
The board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the group 
maintains a system of internal control that will provide it with a level 
of assurance that is adequate and effective. This includes control over 
financial, operational and compliance matters and the management 
of risk, with the objective of ensuring that the assets are safeguarded 
and the shareholders' investment protected.
The responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control has been delegated to the audit committee that 
as part of its normal business received reports and assurances 
during the year, on any weaknesses. As part of that review process, 
the committee initiated specific peer review reports covering the 
integration of acquisitions, supply chain management, agency and 
supplier due diligence, operational controls for international businesses 
and the level of expertise for management of large contracting 
projects. The reports were supplemented with further assessment by 
external third parties, such as the external auditor, under the direction 
of the committee.
Following consideration of these reports certain actions were taken to 
strengthen internal controls, improve the supply chain management, 
restructure and refocus one of the businesses and apply the lessons 
learned elsewhere in the group, as appropriate.
Internal audit
The new approach to our internal auditing continued to deliver a more 
focused flexible result with the peer review programme and one-off 
reviews referred to above, producing quality and timely reports that 
facilitated decisive management and committee responses to issues 
raised. The programme has also enabled the management and the 
committee to share information throughout the group and to apply 
new practices and lessons learned. A total of eleven reports were 
submitted to the committee during the year covered by presentations 
to the committee on progress and overall results of the programme.
The group risk and compliance counsel submitted an update of 
the group risk register and assurance reporting, progress on the 
implementation of the compliance programme and the new 
compliance systems and training for anti-bribery and corruption.
Whistleblowing
The group has a written policy which states that if any employee in 
the group has reasonable grounds to believe that the group's code of 
business conduct is being breached by any person or group of people, 
he or she is able to contact the group risk and compliance counsel with 
full details, or if necessary the company secretary or the chairman of 
the audit committee. 
The committee received individual reports from the group risk 
and compliance counsel on matters reported under the group's 
whistleblowing policy. In the main the incidents reported through the 
whistleblowing helpline related to individual employment terms or 
working relationships with other employees.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference for the committee were reviewed during the 
year. The committee considered that its terms of reference remained 
appropriate, that it had acted transparently and maintained a 
thorough understanding of the group, its business and associated risks.
Yours sincerely
Jock Lennox 
Independent non-executive director
Chairman, Audit Committee
12 March 2013
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
44 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 www.hsholdings.com