 The Alumasc Group plc 21
The Board of The Alumasc Group plc is committed to the principles of good corporate governance. The Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority require listed companies to disclose how they comply with the principles and provisions contained in the 2003
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (The Combined Code ). This report together with the information contained in the
Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 26 explain how the directors seek to apply the requirements of the Combined Code to procedures
within the Group.
For the financial year ended 30 June 2005 the Board considers that it has complied with all aspects of the Combined Code save for the
following provisions: A7.2 where not all non-executive directors have a service contract or letter of appointment, further details are given
in the Remuneration Report on page 24. D1.1 in that there has not been attendance by the non-executive directors at meetings with
analysts or major shareholders. The Chairman and Chief Executive give full reports to the Board after such meetings.
Shareholder communication
During the year, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director met with institutional investors and analysts after the announcement
of the interim and year end results. Additional meetings were arranged during the year by the Company's brokers. Feedback arising from
these meetings was communicated to the Board. Private investors are encouraged to attend the AGM and the Notice of Meeting is sent
out 20 working days prior to this meeting. At the AGM the numbers and voting intentions of the shareholders voting by proxy are
declared to the meeting. The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit committees are
available at the AGM to answer any questions.
The Group web site, www.alumasc.co.uk, makes available copies or summaries of all company announcements, electronic versions of the
Annual Report and Accounts plus full subsidiary information with hot links to the subsidiary companies' own websites.
Jon Pither, as senior independent director, is available to shareholders if they wish to raise any matters that contact through the normal
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Company Secretary has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board
At 7 September 2005, the date of signing the accounts, the Board comprises four executive directors and three non-executive directors. 
A detailed biography of each director is set out on page 17. The Board meets regularly and retains responsibility for a schedule of matters
covering strategic, operational, financial and compliance issues and receives regular reports on these areas. Information which is to be
discussed at the meetings is issued in a timely manner and the Board has agreed a Group policy whereby the directors have access to
independent professional advice should it be deemed necessary.
During the year the Board held five scheduled board meetings and two scheduled days dedicated to strategy specific discussions. All the
directors attended all of the meetings except for Philip Gwyn who was unable to attend two board meetings.
There are three standing board committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration. Each of these Committees act within defined terms of
reference. Additional information is set out later in this report and also in the Directors' and Remuneration Report.
Two Audit and two Remuneration Committee Meetings were held during the year which were attended by all of the members. It was not
felt appropriate for a Nomination Committee meeting to be held during the year.
The Board of The Alumasc Group plc is satisfied that a good balance of authority and decision taking power exists among the Group's
executive directors. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. The Board has a procedure whereby any Director may seek, through
the office of the Company Secretary, independent professional advice, at the Company's expense, in the furtherance of his duties. There is
a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman who is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive who has the
responsibility for running the business.
Two of the Board's non-executive directors, Jon Pither and Philip Gwyn have served for more than the recommended nine years. In
addition Philip Gwyn has a significant shareholding, detailed in the Directors' Report on page 18. The Board has reviewed the role of each
of these directors and concluded that each is independent in character and judgement. It is felt that their knowledge and understanding
are fundamental to the Board's deliberations. These two directors have other significant commercial interests.
Notwithstanding the above the Board considers the non-executive directors are independent and free from any business or relationship
that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The Group maintains a Directors and Officers insurance policy, appropriate to the business.
During the financial year the Board led by the Chairman introduced a formal process for evaluating the Board's performance as required
under Principle 6 of the Revised Combined Code. The Chairman, having considered various external reviews, issued a brief questionnaire
to directors covering the chief issues highlighted in the Code. Meetings were then held on an individual basis with each director to review
the completed questionnaire and related issues. The Deputy Chairman led a review on the performance of the Chairman. Issues arising
from this process were discussed with the Board with recommendations for actions where appropriate.
Statement of Corporate Governance 22 The Alumasc Group plc
Statement of Corporate Governance
Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee are John McCall (Chairman), Jon Pither, (Deputy Chairman) Philip Gwyn and Richard Saville.
The Committee meets when appropriate and is responsible for considering and recommending changes in the Board's composition and
membership. Appointments are fully discussed against the requirements of the Group's business plan and the need to have a balanced
Board.
A process is in place for the appointment of new directors involving the use of external consultants followed by meetings with both the
Committee and subsequently with the Board as a whole, together with the Company Secretary. This ensures that the selection process is
both formal and objective.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee are all non-executive directors chaired by Jon Pither. The Committee operates within its
agreed terms of reference in advising the Board on the remuneration policy for executive directors and senior executives. The Committee is
also responsible for the allocation of options under the executive share option scheme and awards under the Company's long term
incentive plan. When making its decisions, the views of the Chief Executive are considered and professional advice is available if needed.
Non-executive directors' fees are reviewed by the Board, excluding the non-executives.
The Remuneration Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act Schedule 7A and
approved by the Board, is set out on pages 24 to 26.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are all non-executive directors chaired by Richard Saville. The Committee meets no less than twice a
year and reports to the Board on all matters relating to regulatory and accounting issues affecting the Group together with financial
reporting and internal control procedures. The Committee reviews the scope and results of the annual external audit whilst maintaining an
objective and professional relationship with the external auditors. In addition the Committee reviews the independence, objectivity and all
non-audit services provided by the external auditors, who have direct access to the Committee and its Chairman at all times. The executive
directors are not members of the Committee but may attend meetings of the Committee as necessary. The Group does not currently have
a dedicated internal audit function and does not currently believe this is necessary; the requirement for this function is kept under review.
Going concern
The Directors are required by the Combined Code to be satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the
foreseeable future. A review has been conducted and the directors have concluded that such resources are available and that the going
concern basis is justified in the preparation for the financial statements.
Internal control
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the Company has an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business. This process was in place during the year under review
and remained in place on the date that the Annual Report and Accounts were approved by the Board. Accordingly, the Board is satisfied
with the process in place for the risk identification and management and that the reporting lines have been in place throughout the year
under review.
(i) Risk review
Risk assessment is a continuing process throughout the year, dealt with through monthly board meetings of operating companies
which formally identify the risks most important to each company, consider their financial implications and assess the adequacy and
effectiveness of control. Each operating company has implemented procedures for controlling the relevant risks of their businesses. 
The Chairman of each operating subsidiary, who is an executive director, reports to the Board on the risk management procedures that
have been in place during the year and the effectiveness of the level of control in managing the identified risks. The Board reviews
these reports and adds additional items where appropriate. The Board is able to confirm that these procedures are ongoing. 23 The Alumasc Group plc
(ii) Financial reporting and monitoring
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for
decisions. This procedure is intended to ensure that directors maintain full and effective control over all financial issues. There are two
Executive Committees, one which oversees the Group's building products activities and the other which oversees the Group's
engineering activities. Both committees comprise the Group's executive directors, except John McCall, and the Managing Directors of
principal operating companies.
Day to day management of the Group companies is devolved to operational management within a clearly defined system of control
including;
  an organisational structure with an appropriate delegation of authority to operational management;
  the identification and appraisal of financial risks both formally, within the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets,
and informally through close monitoring of operations;
  a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets and previous years'
figures on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and group level;
  an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure.