 Corporate Governance
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE 
The maintenance of effective corporate governance
remains a key priority for the Board and the
statement below describes how the directors have
applied the principles of corporate governance and
complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code
throughout the year subject to the exceptions
mentioned below.
The Board
The Board has ultimate responsibility and
accountability for the Group's operations.
During the year the Board comprised the 
non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance
Director and a non-executive director.The Board
believes the current structure is appropriate for the
scale of the business and to enable the Group to be
managed efficiently.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved to it for decisions
including the determination of strategy, the approval
of business plans, budgets, acquisitions and disposals,
major capital purchases, Board appointments,
accounting policies and treasury arrangements.The
Board also delegates specific responsibilities to
committees as described below.The Board meets
monthly and monitors progress against plan at 
each meeting.
The directors have the authority of the Board to
obtain external legal or other independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties
at the Company's expense. All directors have access
to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Board
procedures are followed and applicable rules and
regulations are complied with.The executive
directors have all received appropriate training for
their appointment to the Board of a listed company.
The non-executive directors bring a broad expertise
to the Board. N A Johnson and N J Cosh are both
experienced company directors. Biographical details
of each director are shown on page 7 .
Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Board considers all of the non-executive
directors who served during the year to be
independent of management and free from any
business or other relationship which could interfere
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board believes that their interest in receiving
fees as directors and as being shareholders should
not prejudice their independence.
N J Cosh has been identified as the senior 
non-executive director through whom concerns 
can be conveyed to the Board.
Availability of Information
Executive management have a responsibility to
provide the Board with sufficient information in a
form and quality appropriate to enable it to
discharge its duties.The Board therefore expects to
receive timely information, circulated in advance, on
all issues scheduled to arise at Board meetings. On 
a regular basis these will include management
accounts indicating the performance of the business
against budget together with financial forecasts that
are updated on a monthly and quarterly basis.
Appointments to the Board
Appointments to the Board require the Board's
authorisation.The Chief Executive and executive
directors approve a job specification, review
comparative terms of remuneration and may
appoint an external consultant to prepare a short
list of potential candidates.The directors do not
consider a separate Nominations Committee is
required for a Board of this size.
The potential candidates are interviewed by either
the Chairman or the Chief Executive.Their preferred
candidate is subsequently interviewed by the 
non-executive directors. An appointment requires
final approval by the Board prior to an offer being
forwarded.
The Company's Articles of Association currently
require one third of the directors to retire by rotation.
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
10 Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the 
non-executive directors.The current members of
the committee are N A Johnson (Chairman) and 
N J Cosh.
The composition is in compliance with the
Combined Code provision B.2.2 which states that
the Committee should consist exclusively of 
non-executive directors, and provision B.1.7 which
requires setting notice or contract periods at, or
reducing them to, one year or less.
Details of directors' contracts are provided in the
Remuneration Report.
The Committee is responsible for establishing formal
and transparent procedures for determining policy
on executive remuneration and advising the Board
on executive remuneration and in particular for
ensuring that executive remuneration packages are
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate executive
directors of the required quality whilst avoiding
paying more than necessary. It also endeavours to
establish performance related elements of
remuneration which align the interests of the
directors with those of the shareholders. No
director is involved in deciding his own
remuneration.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company communicates regularly with its
institutional shareholders and encourages
communication with private investors through the
Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive
directors. The current members of the Committee
are N J Cosh (Chairman) and N A Johnson.
The Committee has written terms of reference,
which set out clearly its authority and duties.These
include the following:
  review of the interim and full year results and the
Annual Report and Accounts
  review the scope and results of the audit and its
cost effectiveness
  review the independence and objectivity of the
auditors 
  review the appropriateness and effectiveness of
the Group's internal controls, policies and
procedures
The Committee meets at least twice a year and the
meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive,
Finance Director and the Group's auditors.
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
11 12
Corporate Governance
continued
INTERNAL CONTROL
The directors have overall responsibility for the
Group's system of internal control. Although no
system of internal control can provide absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss, the
system is designed to provide the directors with
reasonable assurance that problems are identified on
a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
The key elements of the Group's system of internal
control are as follows:
Control environment
The Board has put in place an organisational
structure with clearly defined and understood lines
of responsibility and delegation of authority. The
Board promotes a strong control environment with
a strong ethical climate.
Identification of business risks
The Board has the primary responsibility for
identifying the major business risks facing the Group
and developing appropriate policies to manage
those risks.The Board has completed a risk
assessment programme in order to identify the
major business risks and has reviewed and
determined the key control objectives.
Major corporate information systems
The Group operates a comprehensive annual
planning and budgeting system in conjunction with a
three year business plan which is regularly updated
to reflect changing circumstances.The annual plans
and budgets are approved by the Board.The Board
reviews the management accounts at its monthly
meetings and financial forecasts are updated monthly
and quarterly. Performance against budget is
monitored and where any significant deviations are
identified appropriate action is taken.
Main control procedures
Management establishes control procedures in
response to each of the key risks identified.
Standard control procedures operate to ensure the
integrity of the Group's financial statements.
Monitoring system used by the Board
The Board as a whole monitors the operation of
the system of internal control through management
reviews and has reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of internal control for the year.The Board
has adopted a schedule of matters which are
required to be brought to it for decision in order to
ensure that it maintains full and effective control
over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational
and compliance issues, including procedures for
seeking and obtaining approval for major
transactions and capital purchases.
Compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code
The Company has complied throughout the year
with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code apart from Section D.3.1, which
requires the Board and the Audit Committee to
comprise at least three non-executive directors.
The Combined Code requires that the directors
review the effectiveness of the Group's system of
internal control. In September 1999 the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
(ICAEW) published guidance for directors on the
scope, extent, nature and review of internal control.
The Board confirms that an on-going process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the Group's
significant risks has operated throughout the year,
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
GOING CONCERN
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors
have a reasonable expectation that the Group and
the Company have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the Group's financial
statements.
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003