 HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC 
7 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles underlying the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance. 
 
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the good corporate governance of the Group. The principles of 
corporate governance and a code of best practice are set out in the Combined Code. Under the rules of AIM market the 
Group is not required to comply in full with the Code nor to state where it derogates from it. The Board considers that the 
size and nature of the Group does not warrant compliance with all the Code's requirements. This statement sets out how 
the principles of the Code are applied to Hot Tuna (International) PLC. 
 
BOARD STRUCTURE 
The Board comprises a non executive director and one executive director, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Given the size 
of the Group, it is considered that this gives the necessary mix of industry specific and broad business experience necessary 
for the effective governance of the Group. A replacement Chairman is currently being actively sought. 
 
There are no matters specifically reserved to the Board for its decision, although board meetings are held on a regular basis 
and effectively no decision of any consequence is made other than by the directors. During the year XX board meetings 
were held.  All directors participate in the key areas of decision-making, including the appointment of new directors. 
 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.  A statement of directors' 
responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 11.  The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility 
to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive director are fully considered.  
 
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.  
 
There is no agreed formal procedure for the directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense.  
 
All directors submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting at regular intervals.  There are no specific 
terms of appointment for the non-executive director. 
 
The following committees, which have written terms of reference, deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs. 
 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
The Audit Committee comprises of Kiran Morzaria (Chairman of the committee) and Geoff O'Connell. Meetings can also be 
attended by the external auditors. 
 
The remit of the Committee is to review: 
  the appointment and performance of the external auditors 
  the independence of the auditors 
  remuneration for both audit and non-audit work and nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors 
  the interim or final financial report and accounts 
  the external auditors management letter and management's responses 
  the systems of risk management and internal controls 
  operating, financial and accounting policies and practices, and 
  to make related recommendations to the Board 
 
The Audit Committee meets once a year. 
 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Remuneration Committee comprises Kiran Morzaria (Chairman of the committee), and Geoff O'Connell and is 
responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework of Executive remuneration and its 
cost.  The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for the directors. The report on 
directors' remuneration is set out on pages 9 to 10. 
 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
There is no separate Nomination Committee at the moment due to the size of the Board. All directors are subject to re-
election at regular intervals. 
 
  HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC  
8 
INTERNAL CONTROL  
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Company's systems of internal control.  
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the 
Company's systems are designed to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a 
timely basis and dealt with appropriately. 
 
The Group maintains a comprehensive process of financial reporting. The annual budget is reviewed and approved before 
being formally adopted. Other key procedures that have been established and which are designed to provide effective 
control are as follows: 
 
  management structure - where the Board meets regularly to discuss all issues affecting the Company; and 
 
  investment appraisal - the Company has a clearly defined framework for investment appraisal and approval is 
required by the Board where appropriate. 
 
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and considers the major business risks 
and the control environment.  No significant control deficiencies have come to light during the period and no weakness 
in internal financial control have resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties which would require 
disclosure as recommended by the guidance for directors on reporting on internal financial control. 
 
The Board considers that in light of the control environment described above, there is no current requirement for a 
separate internal audit function. 
 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The CEO is the Company's principal spokesperson with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties.  At 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM), private investors are given the opportunity to question the Board. 
 
This report and its financial statements will be presented to the shareholders for their approval at the AGM. The notice of 
the AGM will be distributed to shareholders together with the Annual Report. 
 
GOING CONCERN 
The directors have considered whether or not it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2009 
financial statements in view of the substantial operating losses in 2008 and 2009.  As at the date of this report, the 
Company has available undrawn credit facilities totalling  2.5 million and in addition in August 2009 the Company raised 
 1.11 million through the placement of 370 million ordinary shares.  Accordingly, the directors believe the going concern 
basis to be appropriate.  HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC 
9 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION 
 
Remuneration Committee 
 
The members of the committee are Kiran Morzaria and Geoff O'Connell.  Details of the remuneration of each director are 
set out below.  
 
Executive remuneration packages are prudently designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of high calibre, who are 
needed to drive and maintain the Group's position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to the 
shareholder. 
 
Remuneration Policy 
 
Share options 
The directors have options granted to them under the terms of the Hot Tuna (International) PLC Share Option Scheme 
which is open to other qualifying employees. The reason for the scheme is to incentivise the directors and management 
personnel and enable them to benefit from the increased market capitalisation of the Company.   
 
Pension arrangements 
There are no pension arrangements in the Group. 
 
Directors' contracts 
It is the Company's policy that executive directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum 
of six months notice. In the event of early termination, the directors' contracts provide for compensation, where 
appropriate, up to a maximum of basic salary for the notice period. 
 
Non-executive directors 
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole having regard to the commitment of time 
required and the level of fees in similar companies.  
 
The non-executive directors are employed on a renewable fixed term contract not exceeding three years. 
 
 
Directors' emoluments  
 
 2009  
 ,000 
2008  
 ,000 
Salary Fees Total Salary Fees  Total 
Geoff O'Connell 11 - 11 - - - 
Kiran Morzaria 12 - 12 14 - 14 
David Lenigas 17 - 17 8 - 8 
Niels Juuls 131 - 131 141 - 141 
 171 - 171 163 - 163  HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC  
10 
DIRECTORS' INTERESTS IN OPTIONS  
 
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in 
the Company or granted to or held by the directors. Details of options held by directors who served during the year are as 
follows: 
 
 
 
Director 
 
 
Date of grant 
 
 
Vesting date 
Number of 
options over 
Ordinary shares 
Exercise 
Price 
(pence) 
 
 
Option exercise period 
Kiran Morzaria 22/05/2008 22/05/2008 1,000,000 2 5 years from date of grant. 
Geoff O'Connell 03/07/2006 03/07/2007 100,000 2 6 years from date of grant. 
David Lenigas 22/05/2008 22/05/2008 5,000,000 2 5 years from date of grant. 
Niels Juul 19/05/2008 19/05/2010 5,000,000 2 5 years from date of grant. 
 20/05/2007 20/05/2010 400,000 2 5 years from date of grant 
 20/05/2007 20/05/2012 600,000 2 6 years from date of grant 
 20/05/2007 
 
20/05/2013 1,000,000 2 7 years from date of grant 
 
 
All options have been granted under the Hot Tuna (International) PLC Share Option Scheme. Options granted under this 
scheme are not subject to performance criteria.  The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 June 2009 was 0.52 pence 
(2008: 1.94 pence) and the range during the year was 0.25 pence to 2.50 pence [2008: 1.0 pence to 12.5 pence (average 
0.73 pence). 
 
There was no exercise, forfeiture or waiver of any of the above options during the year. 
 
APPROVAL 
 
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 December 2009 and signed on its behalf 
by: 
 
Kiran Morzaria 
Director 
21 December 2009 