 28 Huntsworth plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good 
corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with the 
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 
and appended to the Listing Rules (the  Code').
The Board and its Committees
THE BOARD
The Board comprises the independent non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Human Resources Director 
and four independent non-executive directors. The Board considers that, notwithstanding their interests in the shares and share options of 
the Company as set out in the Report of the directors on remuneration on pages 31 to 36, the current non-executive directors are independent 
of the management of the Group and are free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement. The Huntsworth PLC Non-Executive Directors' Share Option Scheme provided a basis for aligning the interests of 
the non-executive directors with those of the Company's shareholders. It is not intended to make any further awards under this scheme.
One of the non-executive directors, Robert Alcock, has the role of senior independent director. 
The biographies of the directors appear on pages 20 to 21. These demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the 
financial statements is set out on page 30 and a statement on going concern is given on page 22.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision-making. The Board generally meets every month, reviewing trading 
performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining acquisition possibilities and when appropriate, reporting to 
shareholders. The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully 
considered. Monthly Board papers containing current and forecast trading results, treasury and shareholder information are distributed in advance 
of the meetings to allow time for preparation by directors and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all directors. The Board also receives 
presentations from executive directors and from divisional management on specific issues as well as having direct access to senior operational 
management within the Group as required.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition, the senior independent director ensures that the directors have 
access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Company's expense. 
All directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter one third 
of the Board retire annually by rotation. Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to reappointment.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
Details of attendance of directors and Committee members at the principal Board and Committee meetings in 2007 are as follows:
    Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
H Jon Foulds   14 of 14     2 of 2
Lord Chadlington   14 of 14     2 of 2
Robert Alcock   13 of 14 3 of 3 6 of 6 2 of 2
Eugene Beard   11 of 14      
Anthony Brooke    14 of 14 3 of 3 6 of 6  
Lord Puttnam (from 1 September 2007)    3 of 4      
Tracey Reid   14 of 14      
Sally Withey   14 of 14      
If a director is absent from a meeting, his or her views are sought in advance and then put to the meeting.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The performance of the Board is assessed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the strengths and weaknesses identified are discussed 
at meetings of the Board.
The Board uses performance evaluation questionnaires. Any improvements required are implemented based on the results.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs and all the Committees have specific terms of reference which can 
be obtained from the Company Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is chaired by the Company's senior independent director, Robert Alcock, and its other member is Anthony Brooke. 
Members of the Audit Committee have broad financial experience which has been gained in a variety of disciplines and which the Board 
considers appropriate to enable the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.  29 Huntsworth plc Annual report and accounts 2007
The Board and its Committees continued
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD CONTINUED
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive 
and the Finance Director. There is provision for the external auditors to discuss any concerns they may have with the Committee in the absence 
of management if necessary.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the interim and annual financial statements and monitoring 
the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The Audit Committee advises the Board 
on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results 
of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditors. In particular the Audit Committee oversees the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors each year to 
ensure that external auditor independence is safeguarded.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Robert Alcock and its other members are Jon Foulds and Lord Chadlington. The Nominations 
Committee meets as necessary and is responsible for reviewing and making proposals to the Board on the appointment of directors.
In 2007 the Nominations Committee considered the appointment of a new non-executive director. After a rigorous interview process, 
the appointment of Lord Puttnam was recommended to the Board.
During 2007, the Nominations Committee also continued the search and selection process for the appointment of a new non-executive 
Chairman to succeed Jon Foulds. A detailed role profile was agreed by the Committee before external search consultants were engaged to 
prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable candidates. A number of candidates were interviewed and in late February 2008 a recommendation 
to appoint Richard Sharp was made to the Board.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Anthony Brooke and its other member is Robert Alcock. Meetings are also attended, by 
invitation, by the Chairman, the Human Resources Director and the Chief Executive. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Remuneration Committee recommends to the Board the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors 
and other senior executives of the Group, including performance-related bonus schemes, share-based incentive plans and pension rights. Such 
recommendations are determined after a review of the performance of the individual and by reference to the Company's financial results. In the 
case of the executive directors, other than the Chief Executive, the Committee seeks the advice of the Chief Executive in any review. The Board 
itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors. External advice from a leading firm of remuneration consultants is sought 
when necessary. 
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration, service contracts, and share-based incentive plans are given in the Report of the 
directors on remuneration on pages 31 to 36.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In order to create an ongoing process to fulfil this responsibility, the Board has established a number of measures in order to identify, evaluate and 
manage the key financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the Group and these have been in place throughout the year and up to the 
date of the signing of the accounts. These measures are summarised below:
The Board meets monthly, and is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate 
course of action to manage those risks. The Board has put in place the procedures necessary to implement and comply with the guidance 
 Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' (The Turnbull Report).
The Group has a budgetary process in which the key risks faced by the Group are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action taken 
through the monthly reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the period together with information on the key 
risk areas. 
Capital expenditure is regulated by the budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written 
proposals have to be submitted to the Board. Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group including delegation of authority and 
authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures and each operating Company maintains a system of controls appropriate 
to its business. The Audit Committee monitors controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment, and also considers 
and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. The findings of the Audit Committee are 
communicated to the Board.