 28
Huntsworth plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good 
corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Company's 
compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in June 2006 and appended to the Listing Rules ( the Code').
The Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board comprises the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Finance 
Director and four independent Non-Executive Directors. Until 30 December 2008, the Human Resources Director was also a 
member of the Board. The Board considers that, notwithstanding their interests in the shares and share options of the Company 
as set out in the Report of the Directors on Remuneration on pages 31 to 36, the current Non-Executive Directors are 
independent of the management of the Group and are free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Huntsworth plc Non-Executive Directors' Share Option Scheme provided a 
basis for aligning the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of the Company's shareholders. It is not intended to 
make any further awards under this scheme.
One of the Non-Executive Directors, Robert Alcock, has the role of Senior Independent Director.
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 20. These demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring 
independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the success 
of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. A statement of the Directors' responsibilities 
in respect of the financial statements is set out on page 30 and a statement on going concern is given on page 22.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision-making. The Board meets at least six times a 
year and additionally as necessary and is responsible for reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and 
monitoring strategy, examining acquisition possibilities and, when appropriate, reporting to shareholders. The Non-Executive 
Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully considered. 
Monthly Board papers containing current and forecast trading results, treasury and shareholder information are distributed in 
advance of the meetings to allow time for preparation by Directors and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all Directors. The 
Board also receives presentations from Executive Directors and from divisional management on specific issues as well as having 
direct access to senior operational management within the Group as required.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition, the Senior Independent 
Director ensures that the Directors have access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Company's expense. 
All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and 
thereafter at least every three years. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject  
to reappointment.
Attendance at meetings
Details of attendance of Directors and Committee members at the principal Board and Committee meetings in 2008 are  
as follows:
     Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Richard Sharp (appointed 15 May 2008)     4 of 4      
H Jon Foulds (resigned 15 May 2008)     5 of 5     1 of 1
Lord Chadlington     8 of 9     1 of 1
Robert Alcock     9 of 9 4 of 4 6 of 6 1 of 1
Eugene Beard     8 of 9      
Anthony Brooke      8 of 9 4 of 4 6 of 6  
Lord Puttnam     8 of 9      
Tracey Reid (resigned 30 December 2008)     9 of 9      
Sally Withey     9 of 9      
Tymon Broadhead     5 of 6      
If a Director is absent from a meeting, his or her views are sought in advance and then put to the meeting. 29
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Huntsworth plc
Board performance evaluation 
The performance of the Board is assessed by the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive and the strengths and weaknesses 
identified are discussed at meetings of the Board. The Board 
uses performance evaluation questionnaires. Any 
improvements required are implemented based on the results.
During 2008, the Executive Directors were also subject to a 
review by a personal development consultant, the results of 
which were presented to the Non-Executive Directors.
Committees of the Board
The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the 
Group's affairs and all the Committees have specific terms of 
reference which can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by the Company's Senior 
Independent Director, Robert Alcock, and its other member is 
Anthony Brooke. Members of the Audit Committee have broad 
financial experience which has been gained in a variety of 
disciplines and which the Board considers appropriate to 
enable the Committee to carry out its responsibilities. 
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the 
Group's external and internal auditors. Meetings are also 
attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive and the Finance 
Director. There is provision for the external and internal 
auditors to discuss any concerns they may have with the 
Committee in the absence of management if necessary.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range 
of matters including the interim and annual financial 
statements, monitoring the controls which are in force to 
ensure the integrity of the information reported to the 
shareholders and reviewing the Group's whistleblowing policy. 
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of 
external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and 
non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results 
of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps 
under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors. In particular the Audit 
Committee oversees the nature and amount of non-audit work 
undertaken by the auditors each year to ensure that external 
auditor independence is safeguarded. 
In 2008, the Audit Committee also advised the Board on the 
appointment and remuneration of an outsourced internal audit 
provider and discussed the nature, scope and results of their 
work with them as well as approving the internal audit plan  
for 2009. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee met formally once during the year 
and comprised Robert Alcock (Chairman), Jon Foulds and 
Lord Chadlington. The Nominations Committee meets as 
necessary and ensures that for all senior and main Board 
appointments, due consideration of external and internal 
candidates is given prior to making recommendations to the 
full Board. Where appropriate, as with the appointment in 
March 2008 of the new Chairman, Richard Sharp, external 
search consultants are used. The appointments of Sally Withey 
to Group Chief Operating Officer from Group Finance Director 
and Tymon Broadhead to Group Finance Director from Deputy 
Finance Director in March 2008 were internal appointments.  
In 2009, Lord Puttnam has replaced Jon Foulds on  
the committee.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Anthony Brooke 
and its other member is Robert Alcock. Meetings are also 
attended, by invitation, by the Chairman, the Human Resources 
Director (to 30 December 2008), the Chief Executive, the Chief 
Operations Officer and the Finance Director. The Remuneration 
Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the 
Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's 
framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Remuneration Committee recommends to the Board the 
contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the 
Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Group, 
including performance-related bonus schemes, share-based 
incentive plans and pension rights. Such recommendations are 
determined after a review of the performance of the individual 
and by reference to the Company's financial results. In the 
case of the Executive Directors, other than the Chief Executive, 
the Committee seeks the advice of the Chief Executive in any 
review. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the 
non-executive directors. External advice from a leading firm of 
remuneration consultants is sought when necessary. 
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration, 
service contracts, and share-based incentive plans are given  
in the Report of the Directors on remuneration on pages 31  
to 36.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the 
Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
In order to create an ongoing process to fulfil this responsibility, 
the Board has established a number of measures in order to 
identify, evaluate and manage the key financial, operating and 
compliance risks faced by the Group and these have been in 
place throughout the year and up to the date of the signing of 
the accounts. These measures are summarised below:
The Board generally meets at least six times a year, and is 
responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by 
the Group and for determining the appropriate course of action 
to manage those risks. The Board has put in place the 
procedures necessary to implement and comply with the 
guidance  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code' (The Turnbull Report).
The Group has a budgetary process in which the key risks 
faced by the Group are identified. Performance is monitored 
and relevant action taken through the monthly reporting to the 
Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the 
period together with information on the key risk areas. 