 28
Hydrodec Group plc    |   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Role of the Board and management
The Board's primary role is the protection and enhancement of long-term shareholder value. To fulfil this role, the Board is responsible for the overall 
management and corporate governance of the consolidated entity including its strategic direction, establishing goals for management and 
monitoring the achievement of these goals.
From time to time the Board may delegate or entrust to any Director holding executive office (including the CEO) such of its powers, authorities and 
discretions for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit. The Board has adopted a Delegation of Board authority  which establishes those matters 
which it is considered appropriate remain within the overall control of the Board (or its committees) and those which are delegated to the CEO (or 
onwards as appropriate). This delegation authority was reviewed and updated during the year. In addition to overall Group strategy, the Board 
approves the annual budget and retains control over corporate activity (mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, material disposals and investments) and 
material contract and financing decisions (over and above set value/credit-risk limits). 
Management's role is to implement the strategic plan established by the Board and to work within the corporate governance and internal control 
parameters established by the Board.
Role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the executive responsible for the Group's business.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting the agenda for Board meetings. Once strategic 
objectives have been agreed by the Board, it is the Chief Executive Officer's responsibility to ensure they are delivered upon and consistently to be 
accountable to the Board. The Chief Executive Officer regularly meets the executive management team which comprises the executive Directors and 
senior members of the management team. The day-to-day operations of the Group are managed by the executive management team. 
Board processes
The full Board hold meetings quarterly and at any other time as may be necessary to address any specific significant matters that may arise.
The agenda for Board meetings is prepared in conjunction with the Chairman. Submissions are circulated in advance and for regular quarterly Board 
meetings will include operational and financial updates together with papers relating to specific agenda items. 
Management prepare monthly finance reports which allow the Board to assess the Company's activities and review its performance. Non-Board 
executives are regularly involved in Board discussions and Directors have other opportunities, including regular visits to operations, for contact with a 
wider group of employees.
To assist in the execution of its responsibilities, the Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations 
Committee and a framework for the management of the consolidated entity including a system of internal control.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. This includes financial, operational 
and compliance controls and risk-management systems. The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year. In 
particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which 
these risks are managed. Internal control systems are designed to meet the Company's particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed. 
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their 
nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
Corporate governance report 29
www.hydrodec.com
Composition of the Board
The Board currently comprises seven Directors. This may be increased where it is felt that additional expertise is required in specific areas, or when an 
outstanding candidate is identified.
The composition of the Board is determined using the following principles:
 - a majority of the Board should be non-executive Directors;
 - the role of Chairman is to be filled by a non-executive Director;
 - the Board should have enough Directors to serve on various committees of the Board without overburdening the Directors or making it difficult 
for them to fully discharge their responsibilities;
 - the Company Secretary should not be a member of the Board but should attend meetings and should report directly to and advise the Chairman, 
and not the executives, on corporate governance matters; and 
 - Directors appointed by the Board are subject to election by shareholders at the following annual general meeting and thereafter Directors are 
subject to re-election every year. 
The Board has considered whether the appointment of a Senior Independent Director (SID ) is necessary or appropriate given the current 
composition of the Board. At present the Board do not believe that such an appointment is required.
Conflict of interest
Directors must keep the Board advised, on an ongoing basis, of any interest that could potentially conflict with those of the Company. Where the 
Board believes that a significant conflict exists, the Director concerned is either not present or does not take part in discussions and voting at the 
meeting whilst the item is considered.
During the year Andrew Black recused himself from Board discussions and voting when his offer of a revolving credit facility to finance the acquisition 
of OSS was under consideration.
Independent professional advice and access to Company information
Each Director has the right of access to all relevant Company information and to the Company's executives and, subject to prior consultation with the 
Chairman, may seek independent professional advice at the Company's expense. A copy of any advice received by the Director is to be made 
available to all other members of the Board.
Committees
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 31 to 33 and the report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 34.
Nominations Committee
The role of the Nominations Committee is documented in its Terms of Reference which were most recently reviewed and adopted by the Board of 
Directors in December 2012 and can be accessed on the Company's website.
The objectives of the Nominations Committee are:
 - to ensure that the Company has a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new executive and non-executive Directors to the  
Board; and
 - to ensure that the Company reviews the balance and effectiveness of the Board and the senior executive management team, identifying the skills 
and experience needed for the next stage in the Company's development and those individuals who might best provide them, including 
appropriate succession plans and considering possible internal candidates for future Board roles.
The members of the Nominations Committee for 2013 were Lord Moynihan (Chairman), Andrew Black, Alan Carruthers, Gillian Leates and Ian Smale. 
The Company Secretary also attends meetings.
The Committee plans to meet at least twice during the year in the future. The agenda for Nominations Committee meetings is prepared in 
conjunction with the Chairman. Submissions are circulated in advance relating to specific agenda items. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 30
Hydrodec Group plc    |   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors' attendance record
The following table provides details of attendance by Directors who served during the year at Board and committee meetings. Attendance of 
committee meetings is only shown for committee members and not invitees.
Board Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Andrew Black 8 7 3 3 1 1 - -
Alan Carruthers 8 7 3 3 1 1 5 3
Chris Ellis 8 8 - - - - - -
Gillian Leates 8 8 3 3 1 1 5 5
Mark McNamara 8 7 - - - - - -
Lord Moynihan 8 8 3 3 1 1 5 5
Ian Smale 8 8 - - 1 1 - -
The role of shareholders
The Board of Directors aims to ensure that the shareholders are informed of all major developments affecting the Company's state of affairs. 
Information is communicated to shareholders as follows:
 - the release of announcements, trading updates and interim and annual financial statements through the Regulatory News Service and on the 
Company's website; 
 - the release of video and audio material around results and material announcements on the Company's website;
 - the full annual financial report is sent to all registered shareholders;
 - proposed major changes in the Company which may impact on share ownership rights are submitted to a vote of shareholders; and
 - notices of all meetings of shareholders are sent to all registered shareholders.
The Board encourages full participation of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to ensure a high level of accountability and identification with 
the Company's strategy and goals. Important issues are presented to the shareholders as separate resolutions. The Notice of Annual General Meeting 
is included at the end of this document.
The Company's auditors are also invited to attend the Annual General Meeting and are available for discussion in relation to the Company's financial 
statements. 
Corporate governance report continued