 20
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate governance embodied in the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority.
Statement of compliance
The directors confirm that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout the period under review.
Applying the principles of the Combined Code
The Company has applied the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further details as to how the principles have been applied are set out below:
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which meets on a regular basis 
and has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it. 
It is responsible for the overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major
capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters. It monitors the
exposure to key business risks and the framework of internal controls and reviews the strategic
direction of individual trading subsidiaries, their codes of conduct, annual budgets, progress
towards achievement of those budgets and their capital expenditure programmes. The Board
also considers employee issues and key appointments. 
The Board comprises three executive directors and three independent non-executive directors,
one of whom is Chairman of the Company. Details of directors are set out on page 16. 
The Board formally reviews its performance and composition at least once in every 12 months. 
All directors, in accordance with the Code submit themselves for re-election at least once every
three years.
The division of duties at the top of the Company is clearly set out with the Chairman being
primarily responsible for the running of the Board whilst the Chief Executive' s responsibilities focus
on the implementation of the Group' s business strategy. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who assists 
the Chairman in ensuring that all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board
meetings. The Board also has an established procedure whereby any director wishing to do 
so in furtherance of his duties, is free to take independent professional advice at the expense 
of the Company.
Board committees
The Board has established committees with formally established terms of reference to which 
it delegates the responsibility for certain matters. The principal committees operated by the Board
are as follows:
Audit committee
The Audit Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors and is chaired by 
Graham Meek. 
The Audit Committee reviews the annual and interim financial statements prior to their submission
for approval by the Board together with the findings of the Auditors of the Group. It also considers
the Group' s accounting policies and matters relating to risk management and internal controls. 
The committee is responsible for the relationship with the Auditors including reviewing their
performance, independence and suitability for non-audit work.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors and is chaired 
by Charles Halle. 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms and
remuneration packages of the executive directors, including performance related bonus
schemes. The committee also approves grants of options under the Company' s share option
schemes. 
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 22 to 25.
Nomination committee
The Nomination Committee consists of three non-executive directors and two executive directors
and is chaired by Charles Halle.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of 
the board, identifying suitable candidates for the approval of the board when vacancies arise and
to ensure effective board succession planning. 
Directors' remuneration
The Company' s policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration of each director are 
  21
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate governance
Relations with shareholders
The Company encourages two way communications with both its institutional and private
investors through its active investor relations program.
The Chief Executive and Finance and Commercial Director are involved in meetings with analysts
and institutional investors both following the interim and final results and throughout the financial
year. These meetings may or may not be held at the Company' s premises, however, meetings are
not generally scheduled when the Company is in a close period. The Company believes that this
communication is essential to ensure that analysts and institutional investors receive a balanced
view of the performance and issues facing the business and also to ensure that the Company
receives feedback from its investing institutions.
All shareholders are sent the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report and
receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors
and committee chairs are introduced and are available for questions. The Annual and Interim
reports are also made available free of charge at the Company' s head office or via the Financial
Times Annual Report Service to existing and prospective investors.
In addition the financial results of the Group together with press releases made during the year 
are available on the investor relations page on our website (www.icm-computer.co.uk) which also
carries information about the business.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
A detailed summary of the performance and financial position of the Group is given in the
Chairman' s Statement, the Chief Executive' s Review and the Financial Review which, together
with the Director' s Report, the Board uses to present a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Company' s position and prospects within the financial statements.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group' s system of internal controls and for
reviewing that system' s effectiveness. However, any system of internal controls is designed to
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and as such can only
provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board confirms that there has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group in place throughout the financial year and that this process is
continuing at the date of this report. The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords
with the guidance contained within  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code' formulated by the Turnbull committee. 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group' s system of internal controls, key elements
of which are set out below:
The Board receives reports from the Group' s Risk Management Committee at each Board
meeting which in turn consolidates reports from each of the business units and functional units.
Those reports comprise a process of self assessment on key risk areas together with a procedure
for reporting risks which have previously not been included within the group risk catalogue.
The Board maintains control and direction over significant strategic, financial, organisational and
legal issues, and has established an organisational structure with formally defined reporting lines
and delegated authority. 
There are established information and reporting systems for monitoring the Group' s operations
and formal reporting procedures which include monthly monitoring of the performance of each
business against budget. Business managers report on operational performance to individual
directors with line responsibility and to the Operational Board of the Group.
Capital expenditure is regulated by the budgetary process and by authorisation levels with 
certain expenditure designated by type or by size of expenditure being subject to approval by 
the Main Board.
In addition to the internal controls structure referred to above, the Auditors perform an audit to
express an opinion on the Financial Statements. As part of this audit the Auditors test and review
the system of internal controls and their effectiveness to the extent necessary to express their
opinion. All matters of significance arising from such examination are formally reported to the 
Audit Committee.
The Board has reviewed the requirement for an Internal Audit function and although the Board
does not deem that a full time function is necessary, Internal Audit functions to test compliance
with the Group' s system of internal controls have been established within the Quality department
which reports directly to the Risk Management Committee.
Newly acquired companies and businesses have their existing internal control structure reviewed
and amended in order to comply with the Group' s procedures as soon as practical after the
Group gains control. 
 