 12 IDOX plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 October 2005
Corporate Governance
The Group is committed to applying 
the highest principles of corporate 
governance commensurate with its size. 
During the year the Group adopted 
the Quoted Company Alliance (QCA) 
Corporate Governance Guidelines for AIM 
Companies as published in July 2005.  The 
Group complies with the QCA Corporate 
Governance Guidelines except:
  Whereby the Board is currently 
considering performance evaluation 
of the Board, its committees, and its 
individual directors
  Whereby given the small size of 
the Board, not all the members of 
the Remuneration Committee are 
independent Non-Executive Directors 
  Whereby given the small size of the 
Board, not all the members of the Audit 
Committee are independent Non-
Executive Directors
  Whereby the Board has not disclosed 
the number of Board meetings and 
of the Committees and individual 
Directors' attendance at them
  Whereby the Board has not yet put 
in place a formal policy regarding the 
reporting of improprieties and their 
investigation.
Internal Controls
The Board takes responsibility for 
establishing and maintaining reliable 
systems of control in all areas of operation. 
These systems of control, especially 
of financial control, can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
The key features of the system of internal 
control are set out below:
  IDOX plc has established an operational 
management structure with clearly 
defined responsibilities and regular 
performance reviews 
  The Group operates a comprehensive 
system for reporting financial and 
non-financial information to the Board 
including preparation and review of 
strategy plans, preparation and review 
of annual budgets.  Financial results are 
monitored against budgets, forecasts 
and other performance indicators with 
action dictated accordingly at each 
meeting
  A structured approval process based on 
assessment of risk and value delivered
  Sufficient resource is focused to 
maintain and develop internal control 
procedures and information systems, 
especially in financial management
  The Group has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks that it faces. This 
process has been in place for the year 
and is periodically reviewed by the 
Board.
The Board considers that there have been 
no substantial weaknesses in internal 
financial controls that have resulted in 
any material losses, contingencies or 
uncertainties which need to be disclosed in 
the accounts.
The Board has considered the need for 
an internal audit function and concluded 
that there is no current need for such a 
function within the Group. In the absence 
of a dedicated function, internal audits are 
carried out cross-departmentally during 
the year when considered necessary. 
Furthermore in compliance with the 
Group's quality standards additional 
internal reviews are also carried out.
Following publication of Internal Control: 
Guidance for Directors on the Combined 
Code (the Turnbull Guidance ), the Board 
confirms that there is an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by the Group, 
and that this process has been in place for 
the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts. This process in currently being 
reviewed by the Board. 
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
Company law in the United Kingdom 
requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year which 
give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and the Group 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for 
that period.  In preparing those financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently
  make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent
  state whether applicable accounting 
standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping proper accounting records, for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for ensuring 
that the Directors' Report and other 
information included in the Annual Report 
is prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom company law. They are also 
responsible for ensuring that the Annual 
Report includes information required by 
the AIM Market Rules. 
The maintenance and integrity of the 
Group's web site is the responsibility of 
the Directors; the work carried out by the 
auditors does not involve consideration 
of these matters and, accordingly, the 
auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the 
information contained in the accounts 
since they were initially presented on the 
web site. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and the 
dissemination of the accounts and other 
information included in annual reports  13 IDOX plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 October 2005
may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
Accounting Policies
The Board considers the appropriateness 
of its accounting policies on an annual 
basis. The Board believes that its 
accounting policies and estimation 
techniques are appropriate in particular in 
relation to income recognition, research 
and development and deferred expenses.
International Financial Reporting 
Standards
The Board has continued the work 
begun last year on the implementation 
of International Financial Reporting 
Standards. The Directors have identified 
the following areas which may potentially 
affect the results of the Group:
Share Options - in accordance with IFRS2 
there will be a profit and loss charge for 
share options.
Business Combinations - in accordance 
with IFRS3 there will be no amortisation of 
goodwill.  An annual impairment review of 
the carrying value of the goodwill will be 
required. Any subsequent acquisitions will 
involve the identification and recognition 
of all assets. This would include intangible 
assets other than goodwill if their fair 
value can be measured reliably. 
Intangible Assets - in accordance with 
IAS38 development expenditure that 
meets certain criteria must be capitalised, 
amortised over its useful life, and subject 
to annual impairment reviews. 
During the forthcoming year, the Group 
will continue work on compliance. The 
Directors have given consideration as to 
the timing of adoption of the standards 
and will update shareholders in due 
course. 
Board of Directors
The Board, comprising two Executive 
Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman 
and three Non-Executive Directors, 
is responsible for the overall strategy 
and direction of IDOX plc as well as 
for approving potential acquisitions, 
major capital expenditure items and 
financing matters. The Board has a 
formal schedule of business reserved 
to it and meets regularly during the 
year. The Board is supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and 
of a suitable quality appropriate to 
enable it to discharge its duties. Advice 
from independent sources is available if 
required. The Board monitors exposure to 
key business risks and reviews the strategic 
direction of the Group, the annual budgets 
as well as their progress against those 
budgets.
The Board members and their roles are 
described on page 9.  The Executive 
Directors have service contracts which are 
terminable upon six month's notice. In 
accordance with the Company's Articles 
of Association, one third of the Directors 
are required to retire by rotation at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Shareholder Relations
IDOX plc is committed to open 
communication with all its shareholders. 
The Directors hold regular meetings 
with institutional shareholders to discuss 
and review the Group's activities and 
objectives. Communication with private 
shareholders is principally through 
the Annual General Meeting, where 
participation is encouraged and where 
the Board is available to answer questions. 
IDOX plc maintains up-to-date information 
on the Investor Relations section of its 
website www.IDOXplc.com.
Every shareholder is sent a full Annual 
Report each year end and at the half year 
end they are sent an Interim Report. Care 
is taken to ensure that any price sensitive 
information is released to all shareholders, 
institutional and private, at the same time 
in accordance with London Stock Exchange 
requirements. 
IDOX plc strives to give a full, timely, and 
realistic assessment of its business in a 
balanced way in all price-sensitive reports 
and presentations. 
During the year, the Group adopted the 
QCA suggested terms of reference for the 
various Board committees as set out in the 
Corporate Governance Guidelines for AIM 
Companies published by the QCA in July 
2005.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by 
Christopher Wright and comprises Martin 
Brooks and John Wisbey.  The Report of 
the Audit Committee Report can be found 
on page 14. 
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired 
by Peter Lilley and comprises all Non-
Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired 
by Peter Lilley and comprises all Non-
Executive Directors.  This Committee 
determines the remuneration and benefits 
packages for the Executive Directors and 
any changes to the service contracts. 
During the year, the Committee engaged 
remuneration consultants to review 
Executive Director and senior management 
remuneration. The Committee also 
approves any share related incentive 
schemes within the Group. 
Going Concern
The Directors have reviewed the Group's 
budget and cash flows for 2006 and the 
medium term plan produced to the year 
2007 and are satisfied that it is appropriate 
to prepare accounts on a going concern 
basis.