 Imagelinx plc  |  annual report and accounts 2007  |  11
corporate governance
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The board is accountable to the company's shareholders for good 
corporate governance. Whilst the company does not comply with the Combined Code, this statement describes how the principles of 
corporate governance are applied.
Following publication of the Higgs Review - The Role and Effectiveness of Non-executive Directors and the Smith Report - Combined Code 
Guidance for Audit Committees in January 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued the Combined Code on 23 July 2003, which came 
into effect for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. The principles and provisions of the Code have been considered by 
the board. The board will continue to review its practices in light of the Code.
The company moved from a full listing on the Stock Exchange to a listing on AIM on 26 September 2003 and as such the company is not 
covered by the Listing Rules. Nevertheless, in the interests of providing maximum transparency to shareholders, the board complies with those 
provisions of the Code it deems relevant, ensuring that embedded risk controls are in place.
The chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this year's AGM to be held 
on 28 April 2008.
The board
The board currently comprises the executive chairman, the chief executive, and two other non-executive directors. Short biographies of each 
of the directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 7. There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the 
company, the chairman being responsible for running the board and the chief executive for implementing group strategy. The board structure 
ensures that no individual or group dominates the decision-making process. The board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 
of the group. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 10 and a statement on going concern 
is given on page 6.
The board has not appointed a finance director as the chief executive takes direct responsibility for the finance function and the size of the 
group does not warrant a separate executive director for this area.
The board considers that David Straker-Smith is deemed not to be independent under the definition of independence in the Code as he has 
a substantial shareholding in the company.
The board also considers that Dr. Franz Wimpffen is deemed not to be independent under the definition of independence in the Code, 
as he represents LTG Holding GmbH & Co. KG, a significant shareholder and is a former executive director of the company.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary. The need for director training is regularly assessed by the 
company. The directors take independent professional advice as required.
The board met formally on seven occasions in 2007 and managed the company through a formal schedule of matters. These include overall 
management of the group; approval of strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals; approval of commercial strategy, including the 
annual business plan covering operating and capital expenditure budgets; approval of the financial statements, material agreements and 
non recurring projects; treasury policy; control, audit and risk management and remuneration.
In 2008 the board will meet once every two months at set dates and manage the company through a formal schedule of matters as referred 
to above. It will arrange other meetings if required. The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies 
proposed by the executive directors are fully considered. The board receives appropriate and timely information, board papers being sent 
out several days prior to the meeting. It delegates responsibility to the board committees detailed below. 
Nomination committee
The nomination committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is Dr. Franz Wimpffen. It is responsible for proposing candidates 
for appointment to the board, having regard to the balance and structure of the board. In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants will be 
used to assist the process. All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is Dr. Franz Wimpffen. It is responsible for making 
recommendations to the board, within agreed terms of reference, on the company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost. 
The remuneration committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors, including 
performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The board itself determines the remuneration of the 
non-executive directors. The remuneration committee will be advised as necessary by a firm of remuneration consultants.
Further details of the company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the directors' remuneration 
report on pages 13 to 15. The report has been prepared by the board following the provisions in the Combined Code.
Audit committee
The audit committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is Dr. Franz Wimpffen. It meets not less than twice annually. 
The audit committee provides a forum for reporting by the group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the 
chief executive and the executive chairman.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and annual accounts on or before their 
submission to the board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. 
The audit committee advises the board on the appointment of the external auditor and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit 
work and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditor. The audit committee keeps under review the cost 
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. 12  |  annual report and accounts 2007  |  Imagelinx plc
 
corporate governance continued
Relations with shareholders
The board recognises the importance of communication with shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood. 
The chairman's statement and business review provides a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular 
dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations following the group's announcement of the full year and interim results.
The board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. Details of resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM on 28 April 2008 can be found in the notice of the meeting, which is enclosed with this annual report.
Risk and internal controls
The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the group's system of internal control. Internal control systems are designed to meet 
the particular needs of the group and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The group's systems and controls are designed to safeguard the group's assets and to ensure reliability 
of information used within the business and for publication.
Day to day responsibility for the management and operations of the business has been delegated to a divisional board. This ensures that 
the business obtains maximum leverage from sector specific skills. Clear levels of authority exist for the group's executive management 
and the divisional board. Subsidiaries are given autonomy to manage operations, whilst operating within an established control environment. 
The divisional board meets on a regular basis and group executive management attends these meetings. This ongoing process identifies, 
evaluates and manages the significant risks, which are regularly reviewed by the group's board.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal controls are as follows:
   Management structure 
  The board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board. 
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the group's affairs.
   Quality and integrity of personnel 
  The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses. High quality 
personnel are seen as an essential part of internal control.
   Identification of business risks 
  The board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the group and for determining the appropriate course of action 
to manage those risks.
   Budgetary processes 
  The board is responsible for group strategy, approving budgets and plans, approving acquisitions or disposals and determining treasury 
and dividend policy. Each year the board approves the annual budget and strategic plan. Key risk areas are identified.
   Monitoring and reporting performance 
  Monthly results, including variances from plans and prior year, together with updated forecasts for current performance for up to twelve 
months are reported to the board. These reports cover sales, profits and losses, cash flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets. 
Key risk areas are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting 
process to the board.
   Investment appraisal 
  Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed 
written proposals have to be submitted to the board. Reviews are carried out after the capital expenditure or acquisition is complete, 
and for some projects, during the project or acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; major overruns are investigated. Proposals 
for research and development programmes beyond specified limits are considered by the board. Due diligence work is carried 
out if a business is to be acquired.
   Audit committee 
  The audit committee monitors the controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment. It considers and determines 
relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. It reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal financial 
control as it operates during the year and reports conclusions to the board. It assists the board in the discharge of its duties regarding the 
company's financial statements, accounting policies and maintenance of internal controls and risk management systems.
Retirement and appointment of directors
Alistair Rae and Albert Klein retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 