 Corporate Governance Report
The	 Combined	 Code	 is	 intended	 to	 promote	 the	 principles	 of	 openness,	 integrity	 and	 accountability.	 The	 Company	 fully	 supports	 these	 principles	 and	 although	 not	 required	 to	 do	 so,	 the	 directors	 have	 decided	 to	 provide	 Corporate	 Governance	 disclosures.
The	 Board	 formally	 adopted	 the	 principles	 of	 good	 governance	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Code.	 However,	 in	 view	 of	 the	 size	 and	 nature	 of	 the	 Group,	 the	 Directors	 have	 taken	 into	 consideration	 the	 Guidance	 for	 Smaller	 Quoted	 Companies	 on	 the	 Code,	 produced	 by	 the	 Quoted	 Companies	 Alliance.	 The	 Company's	 governance	 policies	 already	 in	 place	 matched	 closely	 the	 position	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Combined	 Code.	 Narrative Statement
Directors
As	 at	 the	 Group's	 year	 end	 31	 March	 2006,	 the	 Board	 comprised	 of	 three	 Executive	 Directors	 (one	 of	 whom	 has	 resigned	 since	 	 year	 end),	 a	 Non-Executive	 Chairman	 and	 two	 other	 Non-Executive	 Directors.	 Details	 of	 the	 current	 Directors	 are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 12.	 	 The	 composition	 of	 the	 Board	 is	 designed	 to	 provide	 an	 appropriate	 balance	 of	 executive,	 financial,	 technical	 and	 commercial	 experiences	 and	 skills,	 and	 will	 be	 reviewed	 regularly.	 The	 Board	 looks	 to	 meet	 in	 a	 formal	 manner	 on	 a	 monthly	 basis	 at	 the	 head	 	 office	 in	 Newcastle	 upon	 Tyne,	 with	 additional	 meetings	 held	 as	 required.
Summary	 of	 board	 meetings	 attended	 in	 the	 12	 months	 to	 31	 March	 2006.	 Eleven	 board	 meetings	 were	 held	 in	 the	 year	 to	 31	 March	 2006.
Director     Meetings attended 
	 	 	 Dr	 Roger	 Duggan	 	 	 	 	 11
Mr	 Paul	 Hailes	 	 	 	 	 11
Mr	 David	 Evans	 	 	 	 	 10
Dr	 Philip	 Lee	 	 	 	 	 3	 (of	 4)
Mr	 William	 Dracup	 	 	 	 	 9
Dr	 Eddie	 Blair	 	 	 	 	 7	
It	 is	 the	 responsibility	 of	 the	 Company	 Secretary	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 Directors	 receive	 all	 of	 the	 information	 necessary	 for	 the	 effective	 performance	 of	 their	 duties.	 In	 the	 furtherance	 of	 their	 duties,	 the	 Directors	 have	 access	 to	 the	 advice	 and	 service	 of	 the	 Company	 Secretary	 and	 are	 permitted	 to	 take	 independent	 professional	 advice	 where	 necessary	 and	 to	 undertake	 any	 training	 considered	 appropriate,	 both	 at	 the	 company's	 expense.
The	 Chairman,	 David	 Evans,	 does	 not	 meet	 the	 independence	 criteria	 required	 by	 paragraph	 A.3.1	 of	 the	 Combined	 Code	 on	 appointment.	 The	 Chairman	 also	 has	 six	 other	 non-executive	 directorships,	 details	 of	 which	 are	 shown	 below.	 The	 Chairman	 is	 responsible	 for	 the	 running	 of	 the	 board.
The	 Executive	 Directors	 were	 Paul	 Hailes,	 Phil	 Lee	 and	 Roger	 Duggan,	 who	 is	 also	 the	 Chief	 Executive.	 The	 Board	 considers	 	 William	 Dracup	 and	 Edward	 Blair	 to	 be	 independent.
The	 Board	 has	 overall	 responsibility	 for	 determining	 and	 directing	 the	 Group's	 corporate	 strategy.	 This	 is	 achieved	 through	 consideration	 and	 approval	 of	 the	 annual	 business	 plan	 and	 financial	 strategy	 and	 through	 the	 monitoring	 and	 discussion	 of	 financial	 results	 and	 corporate	 matters,	 including	 the	 exposure	 to	 key	 business	 risks	 and	 the	 results	 of	 individual	 trading	 subsidiaries,	 their	 annual	 budgets	 and	 financial	 strategy,	 at	 regular	 board	 meetings.
William	 Dracup	 has	 been	 identified	 as	 the	 Senior	 Independent	 Director	 as	 required	 by	 the	 Code.
Chairman's Commitments
The	 Chairman	 has	 the	 following	 non-executive	 directorships:
Omega	 Diagnostics	 Limited
Storyland	 Group	 plc	 (succeeds	 Storyland	 Limited)	 as	 of	 October	 2005
BBI	 Holdings	 plc
Microtest	 Matrices	 Limited
Platform	 Diagnostics	 Limited	 -	 appointed	 18	 November	 2004
Chromogenex	 plc	 -	 appointed	 16	 May	 2005
Epistem	 Limited	 -	 appointed	 June	 2005
Physiomics	 plc	 -	 appointed	 August	 2005
All	 other	 non-executive	 directorships	 were	 held	 throughout	 the	 year.
1  >>  Immunodiagnostic	 Systems	 Holdings	 plc		 >>		 Annual	 Report	 2006 Corporate Governance Report
Board Committees
In addition to the audit committee (see below) the following board committees were established in December 2004 under specific 
terms of reference: 
1. The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises, William Dracup (Chairman), David Evans and Edward Blair. It reviews the performance  
of executive directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and reviews the basis of their service agreements with due 
regard to the interests of shareholders. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors. The remuneration 
committee also makes recommendations to the Directors concerning the allocation of share options to employees. No Director is 
permitted to participate in discussions or decisions concerning his own remuneration. The details of Directors' remuneration are set  
out under Note 5 and share options under Note 35.
2. The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises, David Evans (Chairman), William Dracup and Edward Blair. The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, establishing appropriate succession plans for the Executive 
Directors and other Senior Executives in the Group and for the nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies where required.  
The Committee will normally meet twice every year.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with its shareholders. The Group engages a firm of financial 
PR consultants to provide another channel of communication to shareholders, potential investors and analysts.
Accountability And Audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an assessment  
of the Group's position and prospects.
The Chairman's statement contains a detailed consideration of the Group's position and prospects.
Internal Controls
The Board has designed the Group's system of internal control in order to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that its assets 
are safeguarded, that transactions are authorised and properly recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented 
or would be detected within a timely period. However, no system of internal control can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives or provide absolute assurance against misstatement of or loss.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit Committee 
which was established on flotation has been delegated responsibility for conducting this review.
The Group's systems of internal control include regular meetings of management to discuss operational, strategic and risk issues, 
designed to ensure that the possibility of misstatement is kept to a minimum. 
The Board has not undertaken a formal review in the current period but shall do so in the next reporting period.
The system in place for financial reporting ensures the Board receives management accounts, forecast variance analysis and other  
ad hoc reports on a timely basis.
The Group has not implemented an internal audit function because the Directors believe that the controls in place are appropriate  
for the size and complexity of the Group's activities.
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date  
of approval of the report and financial statements that have required the Board to deal with any related material internal control issues
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Evans, a qualified chartered accountant, and the Board feels that this committee is 
independent, all members being Non-Executive Directors. The Audit Committee is responsible for the relationship with the Group's 
external auditors and the review of the Group's financial reporting and the Group's internal controls.
The Committee also comprises William Dracup and Edward Blair, both Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Committee will 
normally meet four times a year and is responsible for monitoring the quality of internal control, ensuring that the financial performance 
of the Company is properly measured and reported on, meeting with the auditors and reviewing reports from the auditors. It meets with 
the auditors at least once a year.
Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings plc  >>  Annual Report 2006  >>  17 The Audit Committee has undertaken an assessment of the auditor's independence, including:
  a review of non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees
  discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence
  a review of the auditors own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, 
including regular rotation of the audit partner 
  obtaining written confirmation from the auditors, that in their professional judgement, they are independent
An analysis of fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in Note 3 
to the financial statements.
The Company is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent in the discharge of their audit responsibilities.
Going Concern
The Board has considered the applicability of the going concern basis in the preparation of these financial statements. This included 
the review of internal budgets and financial results. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason they have adopted the going concern basis in the 
preparation of the financial statements.
Compliance Statement
The Board has reviewed compliance with the Combined Code. 
Throughout the year ended 31st March 2006 the Group has substantially complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 
Combined Code.
By order of the Board
Paul Hailes
Company Secretary
4 July 2006
Corporate Governance Report
18  >>  Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings plc  >>  Annual Report 2006