 Impellam Group plc  Annual Report 2009
27
company I nformat Ion fI nanc Ial statements Governance 2009 r eports Bus Iness p rof Iles fI nanc Ial H IGHl IGHts
As a Company quoted on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange, it is not necessary for the Company to comply 
with the requirements of the Combined Code 2008. However, the Board believes that it is accountable to the Company's 
Shareholders for good corporate governance and is committed to the same. Where appropriate, taking into account the 
Company's size and nature, the Company does comply with the Combined Code and it also follows the recommendations on 
corporate governance of the Quoted Companies Alliance for companies whose shares are traded on AIM. Additional information 
on corporate governance is set out below. 
Directors
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of the Group's business, the Group's strategy, reviewing 
trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, maintaining a sound system of internal controls and reporting to the 
Shareholders. The Board meets when required and at least quarterly. It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved 
to it for decision which include: determining the strategy and control of the Group; amendments to the structure and capital of 
the Group; approval of financial reporting controls; oversight of the Group's internal controls; approval of capital and revenue 
expenditure of a significant size; acquisitions, disposals and share dealings; Board membership and appointments; corporate 
governance matters; and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
The Board is comprised of a Chairman and a Group Finance Director, three independent Non-executive Directors, and two further 
Non-executive Directors, who, during the period under review were not considered to be independent due to their informal links 
with a major shareholder. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and running of the Board and effective communication 
with Shareholders and is responsible for the strategic direction and running of the Group. 
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of business and financial experience to the Group. All 
Directors are subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and by re-election at least every 
three years. 
As required by the Combined Code as applied to smaller entities, there has throughout the period been at least two independent 
Non-executive Directors. 
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. Procedures are in place for Directors to seek 
both independent advice and the services of the Company Secretary. The Directors are provided with the opportunity to receive 
appropriate training. 
The number of full Board meetings and committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: 
Impellam Board Meetings Audit Committee
Cheryl Jones (Non-executive Chairman to 13 May 2009 
and Chairman thereafter)
7 (7) N/A
Andrew Burchall (Group Finance Director) 7 (7) N/A
Desmond Doyle (Chief Executive Officer until 14 May 2009) 3 (4) N/A
Kevin Mahoney (Non-executive Director) 7 (7) N/A
No l Harwerth (Senior Independent Director) 7 (7) 5 (5)
John Rowley (Non-executive Director) 7 (7) N/A
Valerie Scoular (Non-executive Director) 7 (7) 5 (5)
Andrew Wilson (Non-executive Director) 5 (7) N/A
Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings the individual could attend in the period.
a udit committee
The Company has an Audit Committee whose responsibilities include oversight of the Group's internal control strategy, the 
review of reports from the Auditors, review of the half year and annual report and accounts prior to their submission to the full 
Board, examining the standards of accounting and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's financial control systems. The 
Committee also reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of external Auditors and the nature of non-audit 
services provided by them. 
The Audit Committee operates under written terms of reference which are available for inspection. The Audit Committee 
meets at least twice each year and is Chaired by No l Harwerth. Its other member during 2009 has been Valerie Scoular. The 
Combined Code requires that an Audit Committee should, in the case of smaller companies, consist of two members who 
should be independent Non-executive Directors. Throughout the financial reporting year the Company has been a smaller 
company  as defined by the Combined Code. The Code also requires that the Board satisfy itself that at least one member 
of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience . The Board is satisfied No l Harwerth has recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
corporate Governance statement Impellam Group plc  Annual Report 2009
gove RnAn Ce 28
Governance 
a udit committee continued
During the year, the Committee considered the following matters:
Internal audit - The Group does not have a formal internal audit function, although it does have a number of departments 
carrying out elements of this role. The Audit Committee and Board have considered and, will continue to consider, on an 
annual basis, the need for an internal audit function. When considering the requirement for an internal audit function, the 
factors taken into account were the scale and complexity of the Group's activities and the fact that a number of other 
functions within the Group provide advice and assurance on specialist areas such as health and safety, regulatory and 
legal compliance.
Whistle-blowing - The Committee considered the Company's whistle-blowing policy and are satisfied that arrangements have 
been and, are in place, for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action. 
An external third party has been appointed to deal with reporting by employees of such matters.
Financial reporting - The Committee reviewed draft annual and interim reports before recommending their publication to 
the Board. The Committee discussed with the Group Finance Director and external auditors the significant accounting 
policies, estimates and judgements applied in preparing these reports.
Auditor independence - The Committee has satisfied itself as to the continuing independence of the external auditor. 
The Audit Committee has also has established policies determining the non-audit services that the external auditors can 
provide and the procedures required for pre-approval of any such engagement. These policies provide for the Auditors to be 
engaged only for work that is not prohibited by professional or other regulatory requirements. This essentially limits work 
to tax services and assurance services that are essentially of an audit nature but excludes internal audit services and 
attest assignments that present a potential self-review threat, such as valuation services. Even where policy allows for the 
external auditor to be engaged to provide non-audit services, prior approval is required with assignments over  100,000 
being approved by the Audit Committee and all others approved by the Group Finance Director.
r emuneration committee
The Company has a Remuneration Committee which is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on 
Executive Directors' and other Senior Executives' remuneration including performance related remuneration. During 2009, 
Valerie Scoular and No l Harwerth were members of the Committee, with Valerie Scoular taking the role of Chairman. The 
Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of reference which are available for inspection. The Company was 
a smaller Company  as defined in the Combined Code throughout the financial reporting year and at least two members 
of the Committee at all times were independent Non-executive Directors. 
Dialogue with s hareholders 
The Directors have established a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders.
The Board will use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their 
participation. The Non-executive Directors will attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions relevant to the 
Committees they Chair. 
Internal control
The Directors have responsibility for the Group's overall system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness, 
while the role of management is to implement policies on risk and control. The Directors recognise that the system of 
internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. 
The system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss. 
A key element of the system of internal control is strategic business planning and performance monitoring. Each business 
has defined financial performance targets and financial and budgetary control systems provide each business with a clear 
plan to meet Group objectives. These plans contain measurable performance targets and are continuously monitored to 
identify shortfalls such that corrective actions can be taken.
corporate Governance statement continued