 30
Governance
As a Company whose shares are traded on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange, it is not necessary for the 
Company to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June 2008. However, 
the Board believes that it is accountable to the Company's shareholders and others for good corporate governance and 
is committed to the same. Where appropriate, taking into account the Company's size and nature, the Company complies 
with the Combined Code and it also follows the corporate governance guidelines of the Quoted Companies Alliance for 
companies whose shares are traded on AIM. 
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of the Group's strategy and its businesses, reviewing 
trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, risk assessment, maintaining a system of internal controls, corporate 
governance matters and reporting to shareholders. The Board meets when required and at least quarterly. During the 
year ended 31 December 2010, the Board met on fi ve occasions. It has a formal schedule of matters specifi cally reserved 
to it for decisions aligned to its oversight responsibilities. 
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors bring a range of business and fi nancial experience to the Group. 
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the fi rst opportunity after their appointment and re-election at least 
every three years. 
Audit Committee
The Board has an Audit Committee whose responsibilities include oversight of the Group's internal risk and controls 
strategy, including whistle-blowing, review of the interim and annual report and accounts prior to their submission to the 
full Board, and review of reports from the external auditors. The Committee also reviews the independence, objectivity 
and performance of the external auditors and the nature of any non-audit services provided by them. 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and during the period ended 31 December 2010 was comprised 
of two independent Non-executive Directors - No l Harwerth (Chairman) and Valerie Scoular. During the year ended 
31 December 2010, the Audit Committee met on two occasions. Following changes to the Board structure in February 
2011, the Audit Committee now comprises Kevin Mahoney (Chairman) and Andrew Wilson.
Remuneration Committee
The Board has a Remuneration Committee which is responsible for making recommendations to the Board of Directors' 
remuneration and reviews recommendations from the Chairman of the Board on other Senior Executives' remuneration 
including performance-related remuneration. During the period ended 31 December 2010, the Remuneration Committee 
met on one occasion and comprised two Non-executive Directors - Valerie Scoular (Chairman) and No l Harwerth. 
Following changes to the Board structure in February 2011, the Remuneration Committee now comprises Andrew 
Wilson (Chairman) and Kevin Mahoney.
Environmental, social and communication matters
Environmental and sustainable operations
The Group's environmental impact as a service-based organisation, with no manufacturing facilities and limited transportation 
requirements, is minimal. The Group is, however, committed to following best practices in the day-to-day conduct of its 
business including the use of sustainable and/or recyclable materials when available. A review of the potential impacts 
on the various businesses is undertaken with parts of the Group already having achieved accreditation to ISO 14001 in 
relation to their environment management systems.
The Group is committed to meeting all the requirements of relevant health and safety legislation. Formal policies are in 
place throughout the Group which are regularly reviewed and updated for changes in legislation and best practice. The 
Group requires all employees to comply with Group policies in relation to health and safety.
Inclusion and diversity
The Group actively encourages diversity in the workplace. It has a wide and varied employee base with employees from 
a variety of social and ethnic groups at all levels of the business. In support of this, parts of the business have been awarded 
the JobcenterPlus positive about diversity  commendation and is active in Local Employer Partnerships. 
The Group believes that by breaking down the barriers that traditionally have restricted access to the labour market it will 
encourage job opportunities for all. The Group works to support the communities in which it operates and to help its clients 
and suppliers achieve their diversity objectives. It is committed to provide all employees with a work environment free of 
discrimination related to sex, race, colour, religion, age, ethnic or national origin, disability or other inappropriate basis.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the 
candidate concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their 
employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the 
training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of 
other employees.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
65047 FULTON Impellam AR10 inside 84pp.pdf   30 65047 FULTON Impellam AR10 inside 84pp.pdf   30 19/05/2011   17:12 19/05/2011   17:12 31
Impellam Group Annual Report 2010
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS BUSINESS PROFILES 2010 REPORTS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Involvement and communications
In the UK there is a corporate intranet and a number of brand-specifi c intranets for UK employees that provide 
communication for policies and procedures as well as the sharing of information, document storage and specifi c news. 
In the US, employee communications are also provided by way of a dedicated intranet portal that is updated regularly. 
Meetings are held between management and employees to allow sharing of information and consultation. 
Supplier payment policy
The Group's policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing upon the terms of each transaction and 
to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment. The Group abides by the terms of payment. Trade 
creditors of the Group prior to close of business on 31 December 2010 were equivalent to 23 days' (31 December 2009: 
20 days') purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year. The Company does not 
have any trade creditors.
Charitable donations
During the period the Group made donations to UK charities of  44,000 (2009:  28,000) with no donation to a single 
charity exceeding  5,000. The Company made no charitable donations in the period.
Political donations
There were no political donations during either period.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 13 May 2011, the Company had been notifi ed of the following disclosable interests representing 3% or more of 
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
     Percentage held
Lombard Trust    58.54%
Dresdner VPV NV    11.87%
Charles Stanley Limited    4.92%
Schroder Investment Management Limited    3.10%
Statement of Directors' responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the fi nancial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare fi nancial statements for each fi nancial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group fi nancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union, and the Company fi nancial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the fi nancial statements unless they are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profi t or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these fi nancial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company fi nancial 
statements respectively; and
 prepare the fi nancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Company will continue in business.
65047 FULTON Impellam AR10 inside 84pp.pdf   31 65047 FULTON Impellam AR10 inside 84pp.pdf   31 19/05/2011   17:12 19/05/2011   17:12 32
Governance
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suffi cient to show and explain the 
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi nancial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the fi nancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of fi nancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In the case of each Director in offi ce at the date the Directors' report is approved and in accordance with Section 418 of 
the Companies Act 2006:
a. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditors are unaware; and
b.  he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's Auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
the Company's Auditors will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 16 May 2011.
RJ Watson
Secretary
800 The Boulevard
Capability Green
Luton
LU1 3BA
Registered number: 6511961
65047 FULTON Impellam AR10 inside 84pp.pdf   32 65047 FULTON Impellam AR10 inside 84pp.pdf   32 19/05/2011   17:12 19/05/2011   17:12