 INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland)
9
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Finance Committee on Corporate
Governance which sets out the principles, best practices and guidelines on structures and processes
that companies may use in their operations towards achieving the optimal governance framework.
The Board of Directors (Board ) believe that the practice of ensuring the highest standards of
corporate governance throughout the Group is fundamental and vital in discharging its
responsibilities to protect and enhance shareholders value and improve the financial performance of
the Group.
The Board fully supports the recommendations of the Code. Within the Group, steps have been
taken to evaluate the status of the Group's corporate governance procedures and the Group has
implemented the Code's best practices.
The Board considers that it has complied with the best practices as set out in the Code for the
financial year ended 31 December 2003.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board has six members, of whom five are independent Non-Executive Directors. No individual
or group of individuals dominates the Board's decision making. The Executive Chairman at the Board
is Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf.
The composition of the Board reflects a balance with a mix of technical, administrative and business
experience that has been vital to the direction of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis, and also on other occasions as required, to approve the annual
financial results and any other matters that require the Board's approval. Due notice is given for all
scheduled meetings for all matters reserved specifically for its decision. Regular and ad-hoc reports
and presentations to the Board and its Committee ensure that the Directors are supplied with timely
information on the financial, operational, legal, regulatory, corporate and strategic matters.
The Directors also have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary in
furtherance of their duties and may take independent professional advice at the Company's
expense.
All Directors offer themselves, on a rotation basis, for re-election by shareholders at the annual
general meetings at least once every 3 years.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors fulfill a pivotal role in corporate accountability. None of
these Directors participate in the day-to-day management of the Group.
A statement by the Directors and their responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is
included on page 27. INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland)
10
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Contd)
Attendance at Board of Directors' Meetings
14/04/03 29/05/03 30/05/03
Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf x x x
Dato' Hashim bin Md Salleh x x x
Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed x x x
Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir x x x
Alan Maitland Dewar McWilliam - x x
Abdul Khudus bin Mohd. Naaim x x x
T h e re were 3 Board meetings during the year. All the meetings were held at 22nd Floor Menara Pro m e t ,
Kuala Lumpur except on 30 May 2003 which was held at Perhentian Island Resort, T e re n g g a n u .
AUDIT COMMITEE
Attendance at Audit Committee Meetings
26/02/03 14/04/03 29/05/03 29/08/03 18/11/03
Dato' Hashim bin Md Salleh x x x - x
Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed x x x x x
Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir x x x x x
Abdul Khudus bin Mohd. Naaim x x x x x
There were 5 Audit Committee Meetings during the year. All the meetings were held at 22nd Floor
Menara Promet, Kuala Lumpur except on 29 May 2003 which was held at Perhentian Island Resort,
Terengganu.
The terms of reference of the Committee, are in accordance with the Bursa Malaysia Securities
B e rhad (BMSB ) Listing Requirements. The terms of re f e rence, which outline the Audit
Committee's functions and duties, are furnished separately in the Annual Report.
The Committee has reviewed the Group's quarterly and annual financial statement as well as any
related party transactions prior to their approval by the Board. It has further reviewed with the
external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP , the scope of their engagement, their fees as well as the
accounting and reporting matters emanating from their examination of the annual financial
statements. The Committee has also appraised any significant risks, control, regulatory and financial
matters that have come to the attention of the external auditors in the course of their examination.
The Audit Committee meets annually with the external auditors without the presence of the
Executive Chairman of the Board.
The Committee is aware of the risk management, control and governance processes relating to
critical corporate and operational areas. It also closely monitors the recommendations made in order
to obtain assurance that all key risk and control concerns have been duly addressed. INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland)
11
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd)
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Directors' Remuneration Committee (Remuneration Committee ) was established on 
20 February 2003 and is headed by Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed. The Remuneration Committee
consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. A policy framework has been
implemented to assess all elements of the remuneration and other terms of employment of the
Executive Chairman. The Executive Chairman abstains from the deliberations and voting on
decisions in respect of his remuneration at the Board level.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors will be a matter to be decided by the Board and
approved by the shareholders. A full statement on Directors' remuneration is included on pages 17
to 19.
NOMINATING COMMITTEE
The Nominating Committee was established on 20 February 2003 and is headed by Dato' Adnan
bin Maaruf. It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on all new nominees to the
Board and Committees of the Board. The Nominating Committee will review the required mix of
skills and experience of the Directors of the Board in determining the appropriate Board balance and
size of non-executive participation.
STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility of the Group's system of internal controls covering
not only financial controls, but also operational and compliance controls, as well as risk
management. The internal control system involves each subsidiary's business and is designed to
meet the needs of each subsidiary. The internal control system is designed to ensure that the risks
faced by the business as a whole, in pursuit of its objectives, are identified and managed at known
acceptable levels. The Board continuously reviews the adequacy and integrity of its system of
internal control. A full statement on internal control is included on pages 15 to 16.
The Board also acknowledges the internal audit function as an integral part of an effective system
of corporate governance. In this regard, the Board has taken steps to establish a proper internal
audit division to undertake the internal audit functions within the Group.
SHAREHOLDERS COMMUNICATIONS AND INVESTOR RELATIONS POLICY
The Group believes in establishing and maintaining clear communications with its shareholders and
stakeholders. The Annual Report and the quarterly announcements are the primary models of
communication to report on the Group's business activities and financial performance to all
shareholders. Shareholders also have the opportunity to put forward questions at the Annual
General Meeting where the Directors are available to discuss aspects of the Group's business
activities and financial performance. INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland)
12
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd)
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board has read and approved the Annual Audited Financial Statements for the financial year
ended 31 December 2003 and collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy
of the information given and confirm that after making reasonable enquiries to the best of their
knowledge and belief, there are no other facts, the omission of which would make any statement
or information therein misleading.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
Share Buy-backs: During the financial year, there were no share buy-backs by the Company.
Options, Warrants or Convertible Securities: There was no exercise of options, warrants or
convertible securities during the financial year.
American Depository Receipt (ADR ) or Global Depository Receipt (GDR ) Programme: The
Company did not sponsor any ADR or GDR programme during the financial year.
Imposition of Sanctions and/or Penalties: There were no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed
on the Company and its subsidiaries, Directors or management by any regulatory bodies during the
financial year.
Non-Audit Fees: Non-audit fees payable to the Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young LLP , for the financial
year ended 31 December 2003 amounted to RM10,000.
Profit Estimate, Forecast, Projection, and Variation in Results: There were no variations of 10% or
more between the audited results for the financial year ended 31 December 2003 and the
unaudited results for the quarter ended 31 December 2003 of the Group previously announced
except in the revaluation reserve as stated in note 21. The Company did not make any release on
any profit estimate, forecast and projection for the financial year.
Profit Guarantee: The Company did not provide any profit guarantee during the financial year.
Material Contracts: There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its
subsidiaries involving Directors and major shareholders' interests.
Revaluation Policy on Landed Properties: The Group revalues its landed properties whenever the
market value of the revalued assets has changed materially from their carrying value. A revaluation
was conducted by an independent certified valuer, details of which are disclosed in Note 12.
Recurrent Related Party Transactions: There were no transactions with related parties undertaken
by the Group during the year under review.
This statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 28 April 2004.
DATO' ADNAN BIN MAARUF
Executive Chairman