 Informa plc
50 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012
Audit Committee Report
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION
The membership of the Audit Committee (the Committee )  
is set out on page 48. The Committee met three times during 
the year to 31 December 2012 and all meetings were fully 
attended by the members. It meets as appropriate with the 
Executive Directors and management, as well as privately  
with both the external and internal auditor. The Committee 
has during the year to 31 December 2012 received sufficient, 
reliable and timely information from the senior managers  
to enable it to fulfill its duties. 
GOVERNANCE
The Audit Committee has at least one member possessing recent 
and relevant experience. Its Chairman, Dr Brendan O'Neill, is a 
qualified Management Accountant and has extensive experience 
of Audit Committee procedures. John Davis is also qualified 
Chartered Accountant and until November 2010 was the Chief 
Financial Officer of Yell Group plc (renamed Hibu plc in July 
2012). The meetings of the Committee operate so as to 
investigate the key accounting, audit and risk issues that are 
relevant to the Group. The mixture of experience of its 
members assists in providing a challenging environment in 
which these issues are debated. The Finance Director, Deputy 
Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and Head of Group 
Tax attend all or part of its proceedings in order to provide 
information to, and be questioned by, the Committee. The 
composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year 
and the Board and Committee are satisfied that it has the 
expertise and resource to fulfill its responsibilities effectively 
including those relating to risk and control.
The Audit Committee undertakes a thorough performance 
evaluation of itself which is led by the Chairman of the 
Committee and has done so during the year.
DUTIES
The Committee's terms of reference are available on the 
Company's website. The Committee's terms of reference allow 
it to obtain independent external advice at the Company's 
expense. No such advice was obtained during 2012.
The Committee is responsible for, amongst other things:
 monitoring the integrity of the Group's financial 
statements and any formal announcements relating  
to the Group's performance; 
 monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process;
 making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the 
external auditor; 
 ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the 
Group and the external auditor is maintained, including 
reviewing non-audit related services and fees;
 annually reviewing the Group's system of internal 
controls and the process for identifying, evaluating  
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group;
 reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit 
function and for approving, upon the recommendation 
of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination 
of the head of that function. These responsibilities are 
principally carried out through the Risk Committee 
whose activities are overseen by the Chairman of  
the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board; and
 monitoring the Group's whistleblowing procedures  
to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place  
for employees to be able to raise in confidence matters 
of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent 
follow-up action.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR
In 2012, the Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of 
reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: 
 reviewing the Group's draft full year and half-yearly 
results statements prior to Board approval and reviewing 
the external auditor's detailed reports thereon. In 
particular reviewing the opinions of management and 
the auditor in relation to the carrying values of the 
Group's assets and any contingent liabilities;
 reviewing the appropriateness of the Group's  
accounting policies;
 reviewing regularly the impact on the Group's financial 
statements of matters such as the adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards;
 recommending to the full Board, which adopted the 
recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP 
 as the Group's external auditor;
 reviewing and recommending to the Board the audit  
fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Group's 
external auditor;
 reviewing the external auditor's plan for the audit of the 
Group's financial statements, which included key areas  
of scope of work, key risks on the financial statements, 
confirmations of auditor independence and the 
proposed audit fee and approving the terms of 
engagement for the audit; Informa plc
51
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012
 reviewing the Group's system of controls and its 
effectiveness. In particular, it approves the annual  
internal audit plan and reviews the work done by  
Internal Audit and actions which follow from the work;
 approving the decision to outsource the Internal Audit 
function, and the overseeing and reappointment of 
KPMG LLP in this role to deliver the outsourced Internal 
Audit function;
 reviewing the Group's systems to identify and manage 
risks (including regular consultation with the Head of 
Internal Audit and in particular the operation of the 
Group's Risk Committee); and
 reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and 
performance of significant recent acquisitions compared 
to plans.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the 
development, implementation and monitoring of  
the Group's policy on external audit. The policy assigns 
oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, 
objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory 
requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day 
responsibility to the Finance Director. It states that the 
external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and  
the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is  
the primary contact. The policy also sets out the categories  
of non-audit services which the external auditor will and  
will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to  
de minimis levels. 
To fulfill its responsibility regarding the independence of  
the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:
 the external auditor's plan for the current year, noting  
the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs  
the audit report and who, in accordance with professional 
rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any 
changes in the key audit staff;
 the arrangements for day-to-day management of the 
audit relationship;
 a report from the external auditor describing their 
arrangements to identify, report and manage any 
conflicts of interest; and
 the overall extent of non-audit services provided by  
the external auditor, in addition to its approval of the 
provision of non-audit services by the external auditor 
that exceed the pre-approval threshold.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor,  
the Audit Committee reviewed:
 the arrangements for ensuring the external auditor's 
independence and objectivity;
 the external auditor's fulfilment of the agreed audit 
plan and any variations from the plan;
 the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor  
in their handling of the key accounting and audit 
judgements; and
 the content of the external auditor's reporting  
on internal control.
Following the above, the Audit Committee has recommended 
to the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed. Deloitte LLP 
has been the Group's external auditor since 2004. The Audit 
Committee considers that the relationship with the external 
auditor is working well and remains satisfied with their 
effectiveness. The external auditor is required to rotate the 
audit partner responsible for the Group and parent company 
audits every five years and the current senior statutory audit 
partner has been in place since 2009. There are no contractual 
obligations restricting the Group's choice of external auditor.
The Audit Committee monitors regulatory developments as  
a matter of course and will consider auditor tendering and 
rotation in line with the transitional arrangements set out  
in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditor. This policy provides that the 
firm's services may only be provided where auditor objectivity 
and independence may be securely safeguarded and where 
the fees payable either in respect of the assigned work or 
overall in any year do not exceed the amount of fees payable 
in respect of its audit work.
Non-audit services, other than audit related services, 
provided by the external auditor during 2012 related to  
tax advisory services, attest-related services and hosting 
training seminars attended by Informa employees. All  
of these services were below the Group's pre-approval 
threshold. Separate teams, independent from the audit  
and tax audit teams provided all services. 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Dr Brendan O'Neill
Chairman of the Audit Committee
21 February 2013