 STRATEGIC REPORT
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 32
Corporate Responsibility
MANAGING OUR ISSUES
We refer to our Corporate Responsibility 
(CR ) activities as Louder than 
Words  and our strategy rests on four 
priorities. Three of our priorities stand 
for responsibilities we share with other 
industries, namely People, Community and 
Environment. However, our key priority - 
Content - relates uniquely to our role as a 
trusted provider of knowledge. Summarised 
briefly, our priorities are as follows:
  Our Content refers to our ability to 
deliver knowledge that is always 
professionally produced, rigorously 
researched and properly disseminated;
  Our People refers to creating a flexible, 
inclusive workplace, developing the 
skills and passion of employees; 
  Our Environment refers to managing 
our key environmental impacts across 
our operations; and
  Our Community refers to our direct  
and indirect community impacts.
This is only a summary of our activities.  
A detailed overview of our priorities  
and performance can be found in our  
CR Report.
MAINTAINING TRUST IN OUR CONTENT
As a business, we strive to bring news, 
analysis and thinking together in a form 
that resonates, challenges and informs our 
audiences. Although the ways in which 
we do this vary greatly between the many 
formats and fields we work in, it is material 
for us to deliver high quality, trusted 
content across the Board. Our publication 
Lloyd's List has been providing reliable 
information since 1734; an object lesson in 
quality assurance and continued innovation  
that we seek to emulate across our 
portfolio of services and products.
Within our Academic Publishing  
division, we believe that peer review is 
more relevant than ever as the system 
for evaluating the quality, validity and 
relevance of scholarly research. We have in 
place rigorous peer review and screening 
processes to this effect and we continue 
to work with the Committee on Publication 
Ethics (COPE ) to promote integrity 
in research publication. Our Business 
Intelligence division operates an editorial 
and content code, to which all editorial 
staff must adhere. Our event production 
process is strongly research driven 
and some of our major events employ 
independent advisory Boards to shape 
the agenda and ensure original content. In 
addition to our formal codes, we regularly 
share insights on editorial practice and 
content production across the Group.
INNOVATING FOR THE LONG-TERM 
We continue our migration towards 
digital platforms and delivery methods. 
Symptomatically, Lloyd's List, starting its 
life as a printed notice pinned to a coffee 
shop wall in London, became a digital-only 
service at the end of 2013. We also created 
the new role of Chief Content Officer for 
Informa Business Information to help us 
realise our digital ambitions. On the events 
side, we acquired the company EBD 
Group, providing us with cutting-edge 
software tools to enhance participants' 
experience at conferences and events, 
virtually and offline.
We are committed to being at the 
forefront of industry developments 
within Open Access (OA ) publishing. 
Following consultations with key university 
stakeholders, authors, funders and 
librarians, we have significantly developed 
our capabilities in this area. Virtually all of 
our journals offer an OA option, up from 
two-thirds at the end of 2012. We also 
launched Cogent OA in 2013, an innovative 
new OA publisher offering publications 
across a diverse set of fields. Cogent OA 
stands for the highest standards of peer 
review and online presentation, benefitting 
from the resources and experiences of a 
major publisher, but otherwise operating 
autonomously to spearhead the next 
wave of developments in scholarly 
communications. Having embraced OA 
as a strategic opportunity, we are excited 
about serving the research community in 
yet more ways. 
EMPLOYING AND DEVELOPING  
THE BEST PEOPLE TO MANAGE  
OUR CONTENT
Since knowledge is our lifeblood, we are 
only as strong as the people we employ. 
Hence, we do everything we can to 
attract the best employees, giving them 
the opportunities to develop their skills, 
progress within their specialisation and 
work flexibly where possible. Informa 
Academy, our internal training centre, 
noted an increase of 15% in webinar and 
course attendance in 2013.
Freedom to succeed  is a defining 
principle of our workplace. We 
pride ourselves in maintaining an 
EMMA BLANEY 
GROUP HR DIRECTOR
Louder than Words  is headed up by 
Emma Blaney, Group HR Director, with 
support from a small dedicated CR team 
and external advisers. The CR team reports 
directly into the Group Chief Executive. 
Local ownership of Louder than Words  
is located with a network of 21 CR leaders 
from across the Group with whom the CR 
team meet regularly. The CR team also 
works closely with Group Marketing, Human 
Resources, Investor Relations and Facilities 
Managers across the Group.
Louder than Words  is fully aligned 
with the Group's strategic priorities and 
we disclose relevant information to our 
stakeholders through our own reporting 
and through third party initiatives such 
as FTSE4Good, Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI ) and CDP.
2013 saw the implementation of new 
reporting requirements for UK companies. 
We welcome the inclusion of social and 
environmental issues into mainstream 
reporting. Our view is that our long-
term success depends on our ability to 
effectively manage these issues and we 
appreciate the opportunity to share our 
approach and performance with our 
stakeholders in the financial community. 
As a result, we have invested a lot of effort 
this year in measuring our global carbon 
footprint to meet the new requirements. 
Likewise, the mandatory reporting on 
diversity reminds us that we always had a 
very balanced workforce, both across the 
business and at senior levels. We see this as 
one of our strengths in a fiercely competitive 
market. The drive towards greater 
transparency is a good thing and we fully 
intend to turn it into a business advantage. 
People Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 33
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
As a large company, we have direct environmental impacts through our operations. Primarily, these impacts relate to the greenhouse 
gas (GHG ) emissions stemming from the electricity and gas we consume at our offices. GHG emissions contribute to climate change 
and, in response, we seek to understand and minimise our energy usage. As we have over 140 offices in 24 countries, this remains a 
challenge. We have stepped up our data gathering efforts, though, and our coverage is significantly higher than it was last year.  
We focus on driving down emissions in the bigger offices where we control the energy bill and have facility managers in place.
2013 global GHG emissions data (tonnes of CO
2
e)
Emissions from Tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity (tonnes 
CO
2
e/employee)
Scope 1 (Gas, Fuel and Car Mileage) 2,845
Scope 2 (Electricity and Steam) 8,409 
Total Scope 1 and 2 11,254 1.73
entrepreneurial mind-set and avoiding 
bureaucracy where we can. We offer 
flexible working arrangements in most of 
our businesses. We are also supporters of 
the UK Government's Think, Act, Report  
scheme to promote gender equality in 
the workforce, particularly in relation 
to recruitment, retention, promotion 
and pay. In 2013, we were ranked in 5
th
 
place in the large company category  of 
Britain's Top Employers, being recognised 
for providing excellent employee 
conditions and nurturing and developing 
talent at all levels. Informa Middle East 
also received the Employer of the Year  
award at the 2013 Middle East Event 
Awards. The award recognises employers 
boasting a stimulating and supportive 
workplace with well-motivated, well 
trained employees. 
We believe that well-being in the workplace 
translates into good business. During 2013 
we ran the inaugural, company-wide fitness 
challenge, February Fitness , which saw 
100 teams from across the world competing 
to support their favourite charity. Just over 
50,000 miles were covered by employees 
over the month through running/walking, 
swimming or cycling. We also extended our 
wellness activities with the launch of 21 
Days of Nutrition , helping our employees 
make the best dietary choices. 
80%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
Directors
67%
33%
Senior 
Managers
64%
36%
Employees
43%
57%
 Male Female
The chosen intensity measurement is 
tonnes CO
2
e per employee, based on the 
average employee number in 2013 (6,594). 
We are also managing our impacts 
associated with the journals and books we 
produce. Overall, we are moving towards 
digital rather than print formats across 
our publications, while, in our day-to-day 
operations, we have continued to reduce 
these impacts through:
  better forecasting of journal print  
runs and increasing use of print on 
demand (POD );
  biodegradable packaging for journals;
  reducing the standard paper weight  
for our journals; and
  printing more of our publications on 
either FSC or PEFC certified paper.
PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
We support the principles laid out in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
continue to assess the impacts we have on 
communities and individuals through our 
direct operations and indirectly. 
The right to privacy is business critical to 
us. We continue to respect the privacy of 
our employees, customers and business 
partners and are committed to handling 
personal information responsibly and in 
compliance with all relevant privacy and data 
protection laws. Our view is that privacy is 
as much a social challenge as it is a legal 
challenge. In October 2013, we launched our 
Global Information Protection Governance 
and Compliance Framework which is 
designed to ensure that we meet our 
global obligations relating to the treatment 
of personal information. The Framework 
launch was accompanied by a Group-wide 
awareness campaign designed to promote 
the importance of observing good standards 
of information protection and to encourage 
employees to take personal responsibility  
for the information they use and produce. 
Our approach to maintaining high labour 
and environmental standards in the supply 
chain is guided by our membership of 
PRELIMS, a collaboration between 13 
leading UK and US publishers. Together 
with our peers in the sector we have 
developed a code of conduct, setting  
out the standards we expect our suppliers 
to adhere to. Suppliers may be asked to 
undertake an audit against the code and 
can then share the audit results with as 
many members of PRELIMS as relevant. 
This prevents suppliers from having to 
do multiple, similar audits for individual 
members as was common practice in  
the past. 
FURTHER INFORMATION ON 
LOUDER THAN WORDS 
Our stand-alone CR Report contains 
additional information on all the activities 
described above and more. The report  
is available on the Group website at  
www.informa.com. 