 The Board of Directors is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and the Directors support the 
Combined Code published in June 1998. However, being a small company with limited resources, the Directors have decided to move 
towards full compliance with the Code over a reasonable period of time and as appropriate for the size of business. In accordance with the 
Code, this section is split into two parts. The first part sets out how the Company has applied the principles and the second part deals with
compliance with the provisions of the Code during the accounting period.
Principles of the Combined Code
Board of Directors
Board meetings are scheduled to take place at least quarterly, with additional meetings to review and approve significant transactions. 
Last year ten meetings were held. There is a Company procedure which describes the matters which are reserved for the Board and all
members of the Board have access to this document. The main items reserved for the Board include business acquisitions and disposals,
funding requirements, major capital expenditure and reviewing the financial results. In addition, approval of the annual budget and the 
quarterly reforecasts is performed by the Board.
If required, the Directors are entitled to take independent advice and if the Board is informed in advance, the cost of the advice will be
reimbursed by the Company.
The Company Secretary's services are available to all members of the Board. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is 
a decision for the Board as a whole.
At the year-end, the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other Non-Executive Directors and two other
Executive Directors. All Non-Executive Directors are independent of management although all are either shareholders, or are associated 
with shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed on a contract with a three month notice period and the Executive Directors are appointed on 
contracts with notice periods between six and twelve months. All Directors are subject to re-election. Each year, one third of the Directors 
are subject to re-election. The Company does not combine the role of Chairman and Chief Executive. New Directors are subject to 
re-election at the first AGM after their appointment.
The Board is provided with extensive Board papers, usually the week before each Board meeting.
The Remuneration Committee, the report of which is on pages 16 to 17, is composed of three Non-Executive Directors. It is responsible for 
the terms and conditions and remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Management. The Remuneration Committee may consult
external agencies when ascertaining market salaries. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is available at the AGM to answer any
shareholder questions.
The Audit Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors, M C Rose and D T Embleton. It monitors the adequacy of the Group's
financial controls and provides the opportunity for the external auditors to communicate directly with the Non-Executive Directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company gives high priority to its communication with shareholders by means of an active investor relations programme. This is 
achieved through correspondence and extensive corporate information. In addition, the Company visits its main institutional investors on an
ongoing basis and makes available, free of charge, its Interim and Annual Reports from the Company's head office or via the Financial Times
Annual Report Service. At the AGM the shareholders are given the opportunity to question members of the Board. The notice of the AGM is 
sent to shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting.
INGENTA PLC   13
Corporate Governance  Internal Controls
The Board of Directors acknowledges their responsibility for the Group's system of internal control, including suitable monitoring 
procedures. There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide 
only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance with respect to the preparation of financial information and the safeguarding of assets.
The Group's control environment is the responsibility of the Group's Directors and Managers at all levels. The Group's organisational 
structure has clear lines of responsibility. Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to the operational
management, including key risk assessment. Investment policy, acquisition and disposal proposals and major capital expenditure are 
authorised and monitored by the Group Board.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system and, as a matter of routine, compares actual results with
budgets, which are approved by the Group Board of Directors. Management accounts are prepared for each subsidiary Company and for the
Group on a monthly basis. Material variances from budget are thoroughly investigated. In addition updated forecasts are prepared, at least
quarterly, to reflect actual performance and the revised outlook for the year.
The Board considered the usefulness of establishing an internal audit function and decided in view of the size of the Company it was not 
cost-effective to establish. This will be kept under review.
Provisions of the Combined Code
As stated in the introduction, the Company reports on its compliance with the detailed requirements of the Combined Code throughout the
period ended 30 September 2002. Other than the provisions of the Code mentioned below, the Company believes it has complied with the
provisions throughout the year.
Internal Controls
In accordance with the Turnbull report giving guidance with reference to provision D.2.1. of the Code (effectiveness of systems of internal 
control) the Company conducted a formal review of its internal controls during the year and the results of that review were presented to the 
Audit Committee on 14 January 2002 and updated at the Audit Committee on 28 June 2002. The results of the review were then presented to 
the Board on 22 July 2002.
A further review is planned for presentation to the Audit Committee at its next meeting and the results are planned to be presented to the Board
at the Board Meeting thereafter.
Training of Directors
The Company as yet does not have a formal training procedure for new Directors as recommended by provision A.1.6.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management, but will not be regarded as independent under the terms of the Combined 
Code, due to their interests in the shares of the Company. Accordingly, there is no senior independent Non-Executive Director, 
as recommended by provision A.2.1.
Nomination Committee
The Company feels that at this stage in its development it is too small to establish a separate Nomination Committee as recommended 
in provision A.5.1. All Board Directors have a major input to the appointment of new Directors.
Audit Committee
Due to the size of the Board, the Audit Committee comprises two rather than three Non-Executive Directors as recommended by provision 
D.3.1 of the Code. 
14 INGENTA PLC
Corporate Governance continued Going Concern
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which assumes that the Company and its subsidiaries will continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In making this assumption consideration has been given to the decision of the Board to raise  1.8 million (net of expenses) of additional funds by
means of a placement and open offer that has already been announced. In making this review the Directors have had regard to the fact that it is
still relatively early in the financial year. Whilst they are confident that the Company's performance will show continuing growth, there is still a
wide range of possible outcomes for the year, and hence a wide range of possible working capital requirements for the Company. In the current
uncertain business climate the Directors feel it is appropriate to take a prudent view of the possible outcomes for the year, and to provide for a
working capital requirement at the lower end of the range of possible outcomes for the year. 
The funds have already been received from this placing and will be available to the Company conditionally inter alia on the approval by the
shareholders of relevant resolutions at an extraordinary general meeting to be held on 21 March 2003 and on the admission of the new shares 
to trading on the Alternative Investment Market. Without the above injection of capital the Company may not be able to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. Adjustments would then have to be made to reduce the balance sheet value of assets to their recoverable
amounts, to account for any further liabilities that might arise and to reclassify fixed assets and long term liabilities as current assets and
liabilities. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the placement and open offer were not concluded
successfully.
Whilst the Directors cannot be certain of the outcome of the above conditions, they believe that it is appropriate for the financial statements to 
be prepared on the going concern basis.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. The Directors are required to prepare the 
financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used. The accounting policies have been applied consistently albeit the 
Group adopted a new accounting standard in the year as explained on page 24 under Note 1 Principle Accounting Policies. They also 
confirm that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2002 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Ingenta plc website is the responsibility of the Directors. The work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
William Finlay
COMPANY SECRETARY
26 February 2003
INGENTA PLC   15