 12
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Report on corporate governance
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code which is
appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement about applying the principles of good governance
The explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and in connection with Directors' remuneration,
in the Report on remuneration. 
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors meets not less than seven times a year. The Board considers a range of matters for its approval,
including setting Group strategy, acquisition policy, the budgets, major capital expenditure, material contracts and
appointments to subsidiary Boards and monitors the performance of the businesses against appropriate forecasts or
benchmarks. The Board is supplied with financial and operational information on a timely basis, which the Board
believes is in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties and carry out its responsibilities. The Directors
are provided with information and guidance concerning the regulations applicable to Companies subject to the Listing
Rules and on their duties and responsibilities as Directors. All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and there
is a procedure to enable them to take additional independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. 
In addition to the Chairman, during the year the Board comprised either four or five Non-executive Directors and either
five or six Executive Directors. The Board has an appropriate balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors. The
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are now separate. For a very brief period at the beginning of the year Lawrie
Lewis held both positions but resigned as Chief Executive in October 2001 on Stephen Warshaw's appointment.
Whilst a Nomination committee has been established, the Board considered that in the present circumstances the
appointment of Directors should involve all Directors and therefore the Nomination committee was not utilised in
connection with the appointments made during the past year.
The Directors' diversity of experience and knowledge of the markets in which the ITE Group operates are key to the
development of a robust strategy for the Group and to its execution. The Non-executive Directors contribute an
independent and objective view to the management of the company and play a full and active part in the various Board
committees. The senior independent Non-executive Director is Sir Jeremy Hanley. The names and biographies of the
Directors are on pages 19 to 20.
Veronis Suhler Stevenson, a major shareholder of the Company has appointed Jeffrey Stevenson and Christopher Russell
as its Nominee Directors pursuant to the terms of its subscription agreement. The Board do not consider that Messrs
Stevenson and Russell are independent in all matters but do consider that their independent judgment as members of
the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively are not affected by their relationship with Veronis Suhler Stevenson.
The Board considers Iain Paterson to be independent. Sir Hugh Bidwell formerly was an Executive Director of the
Company but has been Non-executive since 1998. Sir Jeremy Hanley has a marketing consultancy arrangement with 
the Company to promote and open the Group's shows in its overseas territories. The Board does not consider that the
existing and former relationships of Sir Hugh Bidwell and Sir Jeremy Hanley with the Company materially interfere with
the exercise of their independent judgment. Since the appointment of Iain Paterson the majority of the Non-executive
Directors have been independent.
Any Directors appointed during the year are required to offer themselves for re-election. In accordance with Articles 
of the Company, all the other Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years as required by the Provisions
of the Code of Best Practice except the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Directors appointed by Veronis Suhler
Stevenson. The Board propose to recommend a change to the Articles of Association at the next Annual General Meeting
to the effect that the Chairman and Chief Executive will also be subject to retirement by rotation. The Directors
appointed by Veronis Suhler Stevenson will continue, however, not to be subject to such re-election. 13
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Board Committees
The Board has established four principal committees all of which have written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee
The audit committee comprises only Non-executive Directors. The Committee, which is chaired by Sir Hugh Bidwell,
meets at least twice a year. The other members are Iain Paterson, Sir Jeremy Hanley and Christopher Russell. The meetings
are also attended by the Finance Director, the deputy Finance Director and the Auditors.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing accounting procedures and the internal control environment. The Committee
also reviews announcements of the Company's results and monitors compliance with accounting standards. In addition
the Committee considers the appointment of the Auditors, the scope of the audit and any issues arising, their fees and
the nature, extent and costs of any non audit services provided by them. The Committee has access to any employee
and is able to obtain external advice on any matter as required
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises only Non-executive Directors. The Committee, which is chaired by Sir Jeremy
Hanley, meets at least three times a year. The other members are Iain Paterson, Sir Hugh Bidwell and Jeffrey Stevenson.
The meetings are also attended by the Chief Executive Officer and external advisers as appropriate. Exercise of options
granted during the past year have been generally subject only to a condition concerning length of service. This practice
will be reviewed by the Committee in 2003.
Further information about the Committee is set out in the Report on remuneration on page 15.
The fees of the Non-executive Directors are proposed by the Chief Executive and approved by the Board.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors. The Committee is responsible, 
if requested by the Board, for nominating candidates to the whole Board for approval and for considering and making
recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
During the past year the Committee has not operated as the Board continued to consider that the appointment of
Directors should involve all the Directors.
The Acquisition Committee
The Acquisition Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, Alexander Bernstein and 
Jeffrey Stevenson. The Committee is responsible to the Board for all aspects of all acquisitions and divestments outside
the ordinary course of business classified as Class 2 or 3 transactions under the Listing Rules. Transactions of a greater
size and transactions classified as Reverse takeovers require the formal approval of the Board. The Committee is obliged 
to report regularly to the Board on transactions under consideration or in contemplation.
Communication with shareholders
The Board considers communication with all shareholders to be extremely important. Shareholders are provided with
full year and interim accounts to help them keep up to date with the performance of the Group and are given the
opportunity to ask questions directly of the Board at the Annual General Meeting. The Group's website is regularly
updated with copies of all Group press releases. Last year the notice convening the AGM, while complying with the
statutory requirement, did not give shareholders the preferred 20 working days notice. Our timetable this year allows 
for the full notice to be given.
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional
shareholders by making strategic presentations to institutional investors every six months following the publication 
of the half year and annual results, by meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtain feedback and by
communicating regularly throughout the year. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was unable to attend the
Annual General Meeting but the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees will both attend this year's
Meeting to answer the shareholders' questions. 14
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice
Except as disclosed above the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best
Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Internal control
In applying the principle that the Board should maintain an ongoing sound system of internal control to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the Company's assets, the Directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for
ensuring that the Group maintains a system of controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and
risk management to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal control
and compliance with laws and regulations. The objective of these systems is to provide reasonable assurance of:
-the identification and management of key business risks;
- the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition;
-the maintenance of proper accounting records and reliability of financial information within the business for publication;
and
- compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives,
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system of internal control has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval. It is reviewed
regularly by the Board and complies with the Turnbull guidance. The Board has performed a specific assessment 
of internal controls for the purpose of this Annual Report. The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its
review responsibilities.
The Company does not currently have an internal audit function and the Board considers that such a function is not
currently needed. This position is kept under review.
Report on corporate governance
continued