 20
accounts 2003
Isotron plc annual report & accounts 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Isotron plc remains committed to high standards 
of corporate governance throughout the Group's operations and
seeks to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place and kept
under regular review.  
In July 2003 a revised Combined Code was published which will
apply in respect of the year ended 30 June 2005.  Consideration 
is now being given to early adoption of some revised policies and
procedures from the new Combined Code.
Compliance
During the year amendments to existing procedures were adopted
to embrace, where appropriate, the recommendations of the Higgs
and Smith reports.
Throughout the year under review, and up to the date of approval 
of the Annual Report, the Group has applied the principles set out 
in the existing Combined Code on Corporate Governance and,
subject to the exceptions explained below, has complied throughout
the year with each of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code.  The areas of non compliance are:
  The Board accepts that Colin Clive and Christopher Thompson
may not have satisfied all the criteria of Code provision A.3.2
which are generally accepted as indicating independence.  New
Non-Executive Directors have been appointed and both Colin
Clive and Christopher Thompson will retire from the Board during
the coming months.
  In their existing letters of appointment the Non-Executive
Directors are not appointed for a specified term as required 
by Code provision A.6.1.  Service Contracts are currently being
drafted which will take account of current best practice.
  During the year the Company formed a Nominations Committee
which has now been formally constituted.  Membership of 
the Committee is made up entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
Prior to being established the full Board acted as a Nominations
Committee, which whilst not complying with Code provision A.5.1,
was considered appropriate for the small size of the Board.
The Board
The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of matters
reserved for its decision. Procedures have been established for
Directors to take independent professional advice and all Directors
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures are followed and any applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with.  The removal of the Company Secretary would 
be a matter for the Board as a whole.  Directors are required to
exercise independent judgement on all matters including strategy
and performance.  An induction program for new Directors involves
meetings with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company
Secretary together with site tours and the provision of background
information about the Company.  The Board is provided with
appropriate and timely information relating to matters for discussion
at meetings and seeks further information as necessary.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter 
at intervals of no more than three years.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS (continued)
Going Concern
The Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future,
and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing financial statements.  In forming this view the Directors have
reviewed the Group's budget for 2003/2004 and outline projections for
the subsequent two years, including capital expenditure plans and
cashflow forecasts.  The Directors consider that the Group is in a
satisfactory financial position and has sufficient borrowing facilities 
to meet its foreseeable cash requirements.
Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss 
for that period.  In preparing those financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and 
the Group will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.  
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Further details are given in the statement on Corporate Governance 
on this page and page 21 and the Directors' Remuneration Report
on pages 22 to 25.
By Order of the Board
D P M Wynne
Company Secretary  
3 September 2003 Isotron plc annual report & accounts 2003
Board Committees
Three Board Committees have been established, Remuneration,
Audit and Nominations.  A report by the Remuneration Committee
is included on pages 22 to 25.
Audit Committee
Chairmanship of the Audit Committee transferred from Christopher
Thompson to George Kennedy in June 2003.  The terms of
reference of the Committee have been updated to embrace the
recommendations of the Smith Report.  The Committee is
responsible for reviewing the annual financial statements, interim
report, preliminary announcements and the effectiveness of the
system of internal control.  The Committee is also responsible for
ensuring that any matters raised by the auditors are given proper
consideration.  The external auditors attend all the meetings.  
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the independence
of the external auditors, recommending audit fee proposals to the
Board and considering the scale of permitted non audit work.  
The Committee receives and reviews reports from the Risk
Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, before
submission to the Board.  At each meeting any Executive Directors
attending by invitation are asked to leave so as to allow the external
auditors to raise any audit issues relating to the Executive Directors
with the Committee. 
Nominations Committee
During the year the Nominations Committee was asked to identify
and recommend potential new Non-Executive Directors to the
Board.  The Committee engaged the services of an external agency
to assist in this process.  The Committee has now been formally
constituted and has clear terms of reference.
Relations with Shareholders
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for
shareholders, particularly private investors, to question the Board.
At the 2002 AGM the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the
Remuneration Committee were available to answer questions.  
The results of proxy votes were declared at the 2002 AGM after
each resolution had been dealt with on a show of hands and this
practice will be continued at future General Meetings. 
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders
and general presentations are made following the announcement 
of the Group's interim and final results.  All major announcements
issued through the Stock Exchange Announcements Office are 
now made available as soon as possible on the Company's website
(www.isotron.com) and, where necessary, are also mailed to each
shareholder.
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  However, such a system
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
any significant risks faced by the Group.  This process has been 
in place during the year and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and accounts. It is regularly reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Turnbull guidance.
During the year the Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the
Group's system of internal control.  These controls include financial,
operational, compliance and risk management.
It is the Group's aim to maintain firm financial disciplines with the
object of providing reasonable assurance that assets are protected
against unauthorised use or disposition, that allow the maintenance
of proper accounting records and which ensure the reliability of the
reported financial information.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control
within the Group are as follows:
  a formal schedule of matters is reserved for the Board for
decision with appropriate delegation of authority throughout 
the management structure;
  the Group's management structure recognises operational and
functional areas of responsibility. The Directors responsible for
these areas together with the Chief Executive and Finance
Director form the Group's Senior Management Team;
  financial executives within Group businesses report to their 
own operational head but there is also a well established 
and acknowledged functional reporting relationship through
to Group Finance;
  clear corporate and business objectives;
  a Risk Management Committee with clear terms of reference;
  annual financial budgets which includes monthly figures for
turnover, profit, capital expenditure and cashflow;
  monthly management accounts which monitor performance
against budget and prior year and include forecasts for the year;
  a review and approval process for all acquisitions and divestment
proposals, and established procedures for the planning, approval
and monitoring of capital expenditure;
  internal audit is carried out through a system of regular reviews 
of the internal controls at each site by accountants from the
Group Finance function;
  presentations and regular updates on treasury, tax, property,
insurance and health and safety matters to the Board;
  the existence of authorisation limits throughout the group;
compliance is monitored by the group management structure
and internal audit.
3 September 2003
21