 accounts 04
Isotron plc annual report & accounts 2004 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Isotron plc remains committed to high standards of
corporate governance throughout the Group's operations and seeks to
ensure that appropriate procedures are in place and kept under regular
review.
Compliance
Throughout the year under review, and up to the date of the approval
of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with the provisions 
of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Hampel Committee 
in June 1998.
During the year the Board approved early adoption of some of the
recommendations of the revised Combined Code which was published
in July 2003. Although the July 2003 code will only apply to the
Group's financial year starting on 1 July 2004 the Group has decided
to report on its current compliance following the Board's early adoption
of the code provisions.
Board of Directors
The Board comprises five Executive Directors and four Non-Executive
Directors, including the Chairman.  Colin Clive retired as Chairman and
a Director on 5 November 2003 which led to a reorganisation of the
various Board Committees as disclosed below.  Biographical details of
current Directors and a table showing the Directors' attendance at
Board and Committee meetings are shown on pages 14 and 15.
In the opinion of the Board the Chairman was independent at the time
of his appointment and all the other Non-Executive Directors are
independent from the Group.  
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its
decision.  This schedule includes overall Group strategy, acquisition
policy, major capital investment and risk management, and is intended
to ensure that the Board exercises independent judgement on all
matters including strategy and performance. All Directors are
encouraged to participate fully in discussions with the aim of reaching
a consensus.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and have
been clearly defined in writing. The key functions of the Chairman are
to conduct Board meetings and meetings of shareholders and to
ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and
constructive part in Board discussions.  The Chief Executive has
overall responsibility for all business matters and is required to develop
and lead business strategies and processes.  George Kennedy was
appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director following the
retirement of Christopher Thompson on 8 October 2003.
When new members are appointed to the Board there is an
established induction programme that involves meetings with the Chief
Executive and the Company Secretary together with site tours and the
provision of background information about the Company.
There is an established procedure for all Directors to take independent
professional advice, at the expense of the Group, as necessary in
pursuit of their duties.  This is in addition to the access that every
Director has to the Company Secretary. 
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at
intervals of no more than three years.
Board Meetings
The Board meets at least nine times a year to consider all significant
issues as well as matters reserved specifically for Board consideration.
Board members also receive updates about Group activities by email,
and communicate informally by telephone and emails.
Directors are sent a detailed information pack one week before each
Board meeting that contains background papers on all the agenda
items.  During the current year the Board met on nine occasions.
As required by the July 2003 Code, the Board intends to schedule
meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive
Directors present.  An annual meeting of the Non-Executive Directors
without the Chairman present will also be scheduled in future.
Board Effectiveness
During the year the Board has developed a procedure to review
annually its own performance and the effectiveness of its Committees
and individual Directors.
Board Committees
There are three Board Committees; Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations, that comprise solely of Non-Executive Directors. 
A report by the Remuneration Committee is included on pages 
22 to 25.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by George Kennedy and includes 
all three independent Non-Executive Directors.  During the year the
terms of reference of the Committee have been updated to embrace
the recommendations of the new Combined Code.  The Committee
meets at least three times a year to review the scope and results 
of the audit work and to monitor the Group's accounting policies and
financial reporting systems.  The Committee also reviews the annual
financial statements, interim report, preliminary announcements 
and the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.  A copy 
of the Committee's terms of reference can be viewed on the
Company's website.
The external Auditors attend all meetings.  Any Executive Directors
attending the meeting by invitation are asked to leave in order to allow
the external auditors to raise any audit issues relating to the Executive
Directors with the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence of the
external auditors, recommending audit fee proposals to the Board and
considering the scale of non audit work.  The Committee receives and
reviews reports from the Risk Management Working Group, chaired by
an Executive Director, before submission to the Board. Isotron plc annual report & accounts 2004 21
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive
Directors.  Jonathan Azis was appointed Chairman on 5 November
2003 following the retirement of Colin Clive. During the year the terms
of reference of the Committee have been updated to embrace the
recommendations of the new Combined Code.  This resulted in Giles
Weaver assuming Chairmanship of the Committee on 26 May 2004
and Jonathan Azis stepping down from the Committee.  The
Committee meets at least once a year.  Executive Directors 
and Senior Managers may be invited to attend Committee meetings, 
but will not be present during any discussion of their own pay
arrangements.  Further details of the Remuneration Committee's
activities are given in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive
Directors and is chaired by Jonathan Azis.  During the year the terms
of reference of the Committee have been updated to embrace the
recommendations of the new Combined Code.  It meets as and when
necessary to review and recommend appointments to the Board.
Relations with Shareholders
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders,
particularly private investors, to question the Board.  There is regular
dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and presentations 
are made following the announcement of the Group's interim 
and final results.
Investor Relations information is available via the website which can 
be found at www.isotron.com.  This contains details of the Group, 
its activities, press announcements, details of the Company's share
price, share trading activity and graphs.
Internal Control
The Directors are ultimately responsible for ensuring that the Group
maintains an adequate system of risk management and internal
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.  This system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing
any significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been in
place during the year and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and accounts. It is regularly reviewed by the Board in
accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
During the year the Directors have reviewed the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal controls by reviewing reports 
on internal audit and work of the Risk Management Working Group.
These controls include financial, operational, compliance and risk
management.
It is the Group's aim to maintain firm financial disciplines with the
object of providing reasonable assurance that assets are protected
against unauthorised use or disposition, that allow the maintenance of
proper accounting records and which ensure the reliability of the
reported financial information.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control
within the Group are as follows:
  a formal schedule of matters is reserved for the Board, 
for decision, with appropriate delegation of authority throughout 
the management structure;
  the Group's management structure recognises operational and 
functional areas of responsibility. The Directors responsible for 
these areas together with the Chief Executive and Finance Director
form the Group's Senior Management Team;
  financial executives within Group businesses report to their own 
operational head but there is also a well established and 
acknowledged functional reporting relationship through to Group 
Finance;
  clear corporate and business objectives are established and 
updated as part of the Group's strategic planning process;
  a Risk Management Working Group with clear terms of reference;
  annual financial budgets which include monthly figures for 
turnover, profit, capital expenditure and cashflow;
  monthly management accounts which monitor performance 
against budget and prior year and include forecasts for the year;
  a review and approval process for all acquisition and divestment 
proposals, and established procedures for the planning, approval 
and monitoring of capital expenditure;
  internal audit is carried out through a system of regular reviews 
of the internal controls at each site by accountants from the Group
Finance function;
  presentations and regular updates on treasury, tax, property, 
insurance and health and safety matters to the Board;
  the existence of authorisation limits throughout the Group; 
compliance is monitored by the group management structure 
and internal audit.
Going Concern
The Directors consider that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing financial statements.  In forming this
view the Directors have reviewed the Group's budget for 2004/05 
and outline projections for the subsequent two years, including capital
expenditure plans and cashflow forecasts.  The Directors consider that
the Group is in a satisfactory financial position and has sufficient
borrowing facilities to meet its foreseeable cash requirements.
16 September 2004