 ITE Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
23
Report on corporate governance
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board has noted the provisions of the revised Combined Code published in July 2003 and intends to comply with them.
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance
The Company has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the
Code of Best Practice as reported above. The explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and in connection with
Directors' remuneration, in the Report on remuneration. 
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors meets not less than seven times a year . The Board considers a range of matters for its approval, including setting
Group strategy , acquisition policy , the budgets, major capital expenditure, material contracts and key appointments. The Board monitors the
performance of the business against appropriate forecasts or benchmarks and is supplied with financial and operational information on a
timely basis. All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and there is a procedure to enable them to take additional independent
professional advice at the expense of the Company . 
In addition to the Chairman, during the year the Board comprised three or four Non-executive Directors and five to six Executive Directors.
The Board currently has five Non-executive Directors (including the Chairman) and five Executive Directors which it considers to be an
appropriate balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The Nomination Committee has considered all appointments to the Board made since 1 October 2003. 
The Directors' diversity of experience and knowledge of the markets in which ITE operates are key to the development of a robust strategy
for the Group and to its execution. The Non-executive Directors contribute an independent and objective view to the management of the
Company and play a full and active part in the various Board committees. The senior independent Non-executive Director is Sir Jeremy
Hanley . The names and biographies of the Directors are on page 31.
Veronis Suhler Stevenson, a major shareholder of the Company , has appointed Marco Sodi and Christopher Russell as its Nominee
Directors pursuant to the terms of its subscription agreement. The Board do not consider that Messrs Sodi and Russell are independent in all
matters but do consider that their independent judgment as members of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are not
affected by their relationship with Veronis Suhler Stevenson. The Board considers Iain Paterson, Michael Hartley and Sir Jeremy Hanley to be
independent.
Any Directors appointed since the last General Meeting are required to offer themselves for re-election at least every three years. Veronis
Suhler Stevenson have agreed its nominees will stand for re-election. 
The Board is committed to adopting a process for evaluation of its performance and that of individual Directors, and the Chairman. An
appropriate process will be implemented during the forthcoming year . 
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, and of the principal committees of the Board during the financial year
together with details of attendance.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Number of meetings 7461
Attendance:
Iain Paterson* 7361
Ian T omkins 7 - - -
Ceyda Erem 6 - - -
Sir Jeremy Hanley 6451
Michael Hartley 7451
Christopher Russell 7461
Marco Sodi 6 - - 1
Ross Stobie 5 - - -
Edward Strachan 7 - - -
Russell T aylor 7 - - -
*Iain Paterson stepped down from the Audit Committee on 7 July 2004.
Board committees
The Board has established three committees all of which have written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises only Non-executive Directors. The Committee, which is chaired by Sir Jeremy Hanley , meets four times 
a year . The other members are Michael Hartley and Christopher Russell. Iain Paterson served on the committee for most of the year but
stepped down in July 2004 in order to observe the provisions of the new Combined Code. The meetings are also attended by the Finance
Director , the Deputy Finance Director and the Auditors.
18166_ITE_FRONT  7/1/05  4:28 pm  Page 23 Report on corporate governance
continued 
24
The Committee is responsible for reviewing accounting procedures and the internal control environment. The Committee also reviews
announcements of the Company' s results and monitors compliance with accounting standards. In addition the Committee considers the
appointment of the Auditors, the scope of the audit and any issues arising, their fees and the nature, extent and costs of any non audit
services provided by them. The Audit Committee is satisfied that there are sufficient safeguards in place to ensure auditor independence. 
The Committee has access to any employee and is able to obtain external advice on any matter as required. At the end of each meeting, 
the Committee meets with the auditors without any Executives present to discuss matters relating to its remit and any issues arising. 
The auditors are able to request additional such meetings at any time. 
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises only Non-executive Directors. The Committee, which is chaired by Michael Hartley , meets at 
least three times a year . The other members are Sir Jeremy Hanley , Christopher Russell and Iain Paterson. The meetings are attended by 
the Chief Executive Officer on request of the Committee, and external advisers as appropriate. 
Further information about the Committee is set out in the Report on remuneration on page 25.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors Iain Paterson, Sir Jeremy Hanley , Michael Hartley , Christopher Russell
and Marco Sodi. The Committee, which is chaired by Iain Paterson, is responsible, if requested by the Board, for nominating candidates to
the whole Board for approval, recommending the re-appointment or continuation in office of any Director , and for considering and making
recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the above Committees.
Communication with shareholders
The Board considers communication with all shareholders to be extremely important. Shareholders are provided with full year and interim
accounts to help them keep up to date with the performance of the Group and are given the opportunity to ask questions directly of the
Board at the Annual General Meeting. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at Annual
General Meetings to answer questions. The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are generally available to discuss shareholders'
concerns as and when required. The Group' s website (www.ite-exhibitions.com) is regularly updated with copies of all Group press releases
and presentations given to shareholders.
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making
strategic presentations to institutional investors every six months following the publication of the half year and annual results, by meeting
shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtaining feedback and by communicating regularly throughout the year . 
Internal controls
The Directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient
operations, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
A system of internal controls has been established to allow the Board, in conjunction with management, to identify , evaluate and manage 
the significant risks faced by the Company on an on-going and pro-active basis. The system also seeks to monitor the Company' s overall
financial, operational and compliance positions and to help safeguard shareholders investments and to protect the Company' s assets. 
The Board is responsible for this process and for ensuring that it remains effective and, in order to facilitate it, it has established a single
organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability , appropriate delegation of authority and open lines of communication. 
The Company has a comprehensive system of financial reporting. There is a thorough budgeting system for all lines of expenditure, with an
annual budget approved by the Board. Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full year are reported against budget on
a monthly basis. The Board pays particular attention to those matters which, by their nature, expose the Company to significant risks and
uncertainties, including exchange rates which can be subject to considerable volatility and can have a material impact on the Company' s
operating results.
The Company has established procedures to deal with authorisations for expenditure. The Board is committed to ensuring that the
Company' s data and infrastructure, and its information technology systems, are as secure as is reasonably practicable. Security controls 
and procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised access to the Company' s premises. Hardware and software controls have also been
instigated to prevent unauthorised access to the Company' s computer system and network. Regular back-ups of electronic information 
are taken with copies being stored offsite.
The Company does not currently have an internal audit function and the Board considers that such a function is not currently needed. This
position is kept under review.
This system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system of internal control has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval. It is reviewed regularly by the Board and
complies with the T urnbull guidance. The Board has performed a specific assessment of internal controls for the purpose of this Annual
Report. The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
18166_ITE_FRONT  7/1/05  7:23 am  Page 24