 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ITM Power Plc (the Company ) is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance. The Board is accountable to the 
Company's shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group. The Directors acknowledge the 
importance of the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code. As an AIM quoted company, ITM Power 
is not obliged to comply with the full requirements of the Combined Code however the Board intend to comply with its main 
provisions as far as reasonably practicable having regard to the size of the Group.
The Board recognises the importance to shareholders of Corporate Governance disclosure and to this end the Company has 
developed a set of disclosures that it feels are consistent with the Group's size and the constitution of the Board and intend to 
continue to develop these disclosures as the Group grows.
The Directors intend to comply with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules relating to directors' dealings as applicable to AIM companies  
and will also take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the Group's applicable employees.
THE BOARD
The Board currently comprises the following members who are also members of the following committees of the Board:
Director Role
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Executive 
Committee
Dr S Bourne Chief Technology 
Officer
  
Dr G Cooley Chief Executive 
Officer
  
The Rt Hon  
Lord R Freeman
Non-Executive 
Director
  
Mr P Hargreaves Non-Executive 
Director
   
Prof R Putnam Non-Executive 
Chairman
    
BALANCE OF THE BOARD
ITM Power Plc has a separate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, each having his own separate responsibilities. The Chairman 
is responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all operational matters 
and the financial performance of the Group. The Board is balanced, both numerically and in experience, with the intention that 
no individual or small group of individuals should be able to dominate decision-making. The Board has not appointed a Senior 
Independent Director. However, any of the Non-Executive Directors are available on request as a conduit of communication 
to the Board in the event that the Chairman and/or the Chief Executive Officer are not appropriate conduits for shareholder 
concerns and issues.
62
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD'S ATTENTION
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision covering the 
following areas:
  Management structure and appointments
  Strategic/Policy considerations
  Material transactions
  Finance
  General governance and capital matters
COMMITTEES
The Board operates through clearly identified Board committees to which it 
delegates certain powers. These are the Remuneration Committee, the Audit 
Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee. They are 
properly authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and 
act on behalf of the Board within the guidelines and delegations laid down by the 
Board. The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these committees and each 
committee has access and support from the Company Secretary. Any issues requiring 
resolution are referred to the full Board. A summary of the operations of these 
Committees is set out below. 
The Remuneration Committee's role is to determine and recommend to the Board 
the terms and conditions of service, the remuneration and grant of options to 
Executive Directors under the EMI scheme adopted by the Company. 
The Audit Committee's primary responsibilities are to monitor the quality of 
internal control, ensuring that the financial performance of the Company is properly 
measured and reported on and for reviewing reports from the Company's auditor 
relating to its accounting and internal controls in all cases having due regard to the 
interests of the shareholders.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments. It vets and 
presents to the Board potential new Directors, particularly Non-Executives. All new 
appointees undergo a rigorous nomination process before the Board agree on their 
appointment.
The Executive Committee comprises Prof. Roger Putnam as Chairman, Dr Graham 
Cooley (CEO), Dr Simon Bourne (CTO) and Barry Cunliffe (CFO). The Committee 
regularly meets to consider business development, management issues and the 
financial performance of the Company.
A copy of the Terms of Reference for these committees and the terms of 
appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors can be obtained by  
contacting the Company Secretary at the Company's Head Office. 
In addition, the Board receives reports and recommendations from time  
to time on matters, which it considers significant to the Group.
63
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ITM POWER PLC
YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
BOARD MEETINGS
The Board scheduled 4 meetings in the year ended 30 April 2012 and additional meetings were convened when required.  
The table below shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the Committees during  
the year.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its 
duties.
Regular Board Meetings Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
No. of meetings held 421
Non-Executive Directors
The Rt Hon  
Lord R Freeman
4
21
Mr P Hargreaves 3 2 1
Prof. R Putnam (Chairman) 4 2 1
Executive Directors
Dr S Bourne 4 n/a n/a
Dr G Cooley 4 n/a n/a
BOARD PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL
With the full support of the Board, the Chairman leads an evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees on a 
yearly basis. The last review concluded that the Board and its Committee are currently effective and each Director continues to 
demonstrate commitment to their role. 
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
New Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company following their appointment. In addition, 
all Directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the Company. At each Annual General Meeting of the Company all 
those Non-Executive Directors who have been in office for nine years or more since the date on which they were originally elected 
as a Non-Executive Director of the Company are required to retire from office, but may stand for re-appointment. 
BOARD INDEPENDENCE 
The Board recognises that Peter Hargreaves' shareholding is a factor which, under the Combined Code, may appear to impair his 
independence. However, the Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement. The 
Non-Executive Directors have provided excellent independent advice and challenge throughout the year. In concluding that all its 
Non-Executive Directors are independent the Company considered, inter-alia, the fact that all of the Non-Executive Directors are 
directors of other corporations and are not reliant on any shares or share options they hold in, or income they receive from, ITM 
Power Plc.
64
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control. Such a system 
can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. Whilst it would not be practical for the 
Group, given its size, to maintain a dedicated Internal Audit function these internal 
controls are reviewed periodically to check that they are operating as planned. The 
Group also has in place processes to deal with the identification, assessment and 
management of major business risks and tests these processes periodically. These 
processes and their controls are reviewed by the Executive Committee and, where 
appropriate, the Board.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests in the 
Group's strategy and performance.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with 
investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders rests  
with the Chief Executive Officer, who makes himself available to meet shareholders 
for this purpose. Press coverage packs and analyst notes are made available to 
the Board at each regular Board meeting. The Chief Executive Officer is often 
accompanied at investor presentations by either the Chairman or the Chief Financial 
Officer. Shareholder communication is mainly co-ordinated by the company's 
Corporate Communications Consultants, Tavistock Communications Limited. ITM 
Power is committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders through pro-
actively organising meetings and presentations with fund managers, retail brokers 
and analysts, as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries. The Company also 
recognises the importance of communicating appropriately any significant company 
developments, this is done via the Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service that can 
be accessed through the Company's new website. 
The Company reports to shareholders twice a year. The report and accounts 
are available on the Company's website: www.itm-power.com. All shareholders 
are encouraged to attend the Company's Annual General Meeting, at which the 
Chairman gives an account of the progress of the business over the year and provides 
the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions. The Board attends the meeting 
and is available to answer questions from shareholders present.
In all communications and events, care is taken to ensure that no price sensitive 
information is released and that any price sensitive information is released to all 
shareholders at the same time in accordance with AIM Rules.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE 
The Group and Company seek to ensure the independence of its Auditor by limiting 
the non-audit work it performs. The Group and Company uses a range of advisors  
to give specialist advice in relevant areas.
65
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ITM POWER PLC
YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT