 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Principles
ITM Power is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance. The Board is accountable to the
Company's shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group. The Directors
acknowledge the importance of the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code. As
an AIM quoted company, ITM Power is not obliged to comply with the full requirements of the Combined
Code however the Board intend to comply with its main provisions as far as reasonably practicable having
regard to the size of the Group.
The Directors intend to comply with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules relating to directors' dealings as applicable to
AIM companies and will also take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the Group's applicable
employees.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the following members who are also members of the following committees of
the Board:
Director Role
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Executive
Committee
S Massey Non-executive Chairman@@
F J Heathcote Chief Executive Officer @
D J Highgate Director of Research @@
J A Lloyd Engineering Director @
P Hargreaves Non-executive Director @@@
Lord Peter Walker Non-executive Director @@
R Putnam Non-executive Director @
Balance of the Board
ITM Power Plc has a separate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, each having his own separate
responsibilities. The Chairman is responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Chief Executive
Officer is responsible for all operational matters and the financial performance of the Group. The Board is
balanced, both numerically and in experience, with the intention that no individual or small group of
individuals should be able to dominate decision making. The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent
Director. However, any of the Non-Executive Directors are available on request as a conduit of
communication to the Board in the event that the Chairman and/or the Chief Executive Officer are not
appropriate conduits for shareholder concerns and issues.
Matters reserved to the Board's attention
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision covering the following areas:
. Management structure and appointments
. Strategic/Policy considerations
. Material transactions
. Finance
. General governance and capital matters
Committees
The Board operates through clearly identified Board committees to which it delegates certain powers. They
are properly authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and act on behalf of the
Board within the guidelines and delegations laid down by the Board. The Board is kept fully informed of the
work of these committees and each committee has access and support from the Company Secretary. Any
issues requiring resolution are referred to the full Board. A summary of the operations of these Committees
is set out below.
10 The Remuneration Committee's role is to determine and recommend to the Board the terms and conditions
of service, the remuneration and grant of options to Executive Directors under the EMI scheme adopted by the
Company.
The Audit Committee's primary responsibilities are to monitor the quality of internal control, ensuring that
the financial performance of the Company is properly measured and reported on and for reviewing reports
from the Company's auditors relating to its accounting and internal controls in all cases having due regard
to the interests of the shareholders.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments. It vets and presents to the Board
potential new Directors, particularly Non-Executives. All new appointees undergo a rigorous nomination
process before the Board agree on their appointment.
The Executive Committee regularly meets to consider business development, management issues and
financial performance of the Company.
The Non-Executive Committee determines and implements any best practice provisions in the AIM rules in
relation to Directors' Remunerations.
Board meetings
The Board scheduled four meetings in the year ended April 2007 and additional meetings were convened
when required. The table below shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at
meetings of the Committees during the year.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it
to discharge its duties.
Regular Board
Meetings
Nominations
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
No. of meetings held 4  1 2
Non-Executive Directors
S Massey (Chairman) 4 N/A 1 N/A
Lord Peter Walker 4 N/A 1 2
P Hargreaves 3 N/A 1 2
R Putnam 4 N/A 1 N/A
Executive Directors
F J Heathcote 4 N/A N/A N/A
D J Highgate 4 N/A N/A N/A
J A Lloyd 4 N/A N/A N/A
Board performance appraisal
With the full support of the Board, the Chairman leads an evaluation of the performance of the Board and its
Committees on a yearly basis. The most recent review concluded that the Board and its Committee are
currently effective and each Director continues to demonstrate commitment to their role. The Non-
Executive Committee of the Board, led by Lord Walker, appraised the Chairman.
Re-election of Directors
New Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company following their
appointment. In addition, all Directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election
or last re-election are required to submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the
Company. At each Annual General Meeting of the Company all those Non-Executive Directors who have
been in office for nine years or more since the date on which they were originally elected as a Non-
Executive Director of the Company are required to retire from office, but may stand for re-appointment. No
person is incapable of being appointed a Director by reason of his having attained the age of 70 and no
Director is required to vacate his office at any time by reason of the fact that he has attained the age of 70.
Board independence
The Board recognises that Peter Hargreaves' shareholding and the options granted to Stephen Massey and
Lord Walker on their appointment are factors which, under the Combined Code, may appear to impair their
11 independence. However, the Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character
and judgement. The Non-Executive Directors have provided excellent independent advice and challenge
throughout the year. In concluding that all its Non-Executive Directors are independent the Company
considered, inter alia, the fact that all of the Non-Executive Directors are directors of other corporations and
are not reliant on any shares or share options they hold in, or income they receive from, ITM Power Plc.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control. Such a system can only be designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. Whilst it would not be
practical for the Group, given its size, to maintain a dedicated Internal Audit function these internal controls
are reviewed periodically to check that they are operating as planned. In addition, the Company's auditors
review such internal controls to the extent required as part of their audit process. The results of that check
are then included in the report that the auditors provide to the Audit Committee.
The Group also has in place processes to deal with the identification, assessment and management of major
business risks and tests these processes periodically. These processes and their controls are reviewed by the
Executive Committee and, where appropriate, the Board.
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests in the Group's strategy and
performance.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with investors and that the Board
understands the views of major shareholders rests with the Chief Executive Officer, who makes himself
available to meet shareholders for this purpose. Press coverage packs and analyst notes are made available
to the Board at each regular Board meeting. The Chief Executive Officer is often accompanied at investor
presentations by the Chairman and/or the Director of Research. Shareholder communication is mainly
co-ordinated by the Corporate Communications Officer. ITM Power is committed to maintaining a good
dialogue with shareholders through proactively organising meetings and presentations with fund managers,
retail brokers and analysts, as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries. In addition, the Company
arranged a site visit in June 2006 for its major institutional investors to visit the Group's laboratories. The
Company also recognises the importance of communicating appropriately any significant company
developments. Since the Company's IPO in June 2004, the Company has set a number of technical
milestones against which shareholders are able to measure progress of the business.
In all communications and events, care is taken to ensure that no price sensitive information is released and
that any price sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with AIM
Rules.
Auditor independence
The Company seeks to ensure the independence of its Auditors by limiting the non-audit work it requires. The
Company uses a range of advisers to give specialist advice in relevant areas.
12