 iTOUCH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 PAGE 23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
INTRODUCTION
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined
Code ) requires companies listed on the Official List of the UK Listing
Authority to make a disclosure statement on their application of the
principles of, and compliance with, the provisions of good governance
set out in the Combined Code.
The Directors have reviewed the Combined Code and the Board
believes that the Company has complied with the Combined Code
during the year ended 31 December 2002 except as stated below.
DIRECTORS AND ORGANISATION
The Company at the date of signing of this report has eight Directors.
Details of their tenure are given on page 20. Neil Canetty-Clarke,
resigned on 25 January 2002. Sir David Cooksey, an independent
Director under the terms of the Combined Code, resigned on 
3 September 2002. Christopher Rowlands was appointed on 
20 December 2002.
The Board considers that Roger Parry, David Sculley and Christopher
Rowlands are independent under the terms of the Combined Code.
Ivan Fallon, Brendan Hopkins and James Parkinson are each members
of the board of Independent News & Media PLC, together with certain
other subsidiary companies of Independent News & Media PLC, which
is a significant shareholder of the Company. Ivan Fallon, Brendan
Hopkins and James Parkinson serve on committees of the Board,
details of which are given below. On the resignation of Sir David
Cooksey, Roger Parry was appointed the senior independent 
Non-Executive Director. The Company does not have a majority
of independent Non-Executive Directors as required by the Combined
Code. This also affects the relevant Sub-Committees.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and in line
with the Combined Code, one third of the Directors will resign at the
Annual General Meeting and submit themselves for re-election.
The Board, which meets at least five times each year, provides the
effective leadership and control required for a listed company. Actual
financial results are presented to each meeting, together with reports
from the Executive Directors in respect of their areas of responsibility.
From time to time, the Board receives detailed presentations from 
non-Board members on matters of significance or on new opportunities
for the Group. Financial budgets and forecasts are regularly discussed at
Board meetings. The Non-Executive Directors are provided with briefings
and information to assist them to perform their duties.
The Board is confident that its members have the knowledge, talent
and experience to perform the functions required of a Director of a
listed company. On appointment, all Directors are provided with
guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of
a public and listed company and also have the opportunity to discuss
organisational, operational and administrative matters with the
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary. The
Company believes that the information and assistance provided on
appointment is more than adequate to comply with the spirit of
provision A.1.6 of the Combined Code. The Executive Directors'
performance is subject to annual review.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it
for its consideration and decision, including the approval of Group
strategy, major capital projects, the adoption of any significant change
in accounting policies or practices and entry into material contracts not
in the ordinary course of business. The Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary and have resolved to
ensure the provision, to any Director who believes it may be required
in the furtherance of his duties, of independent professional advice at
the cost of the Company.
The Executive Directors, together with certain other Group functional
heads, meet regularly as the Executive Committee under the
chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer. This committee is
responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group's businesses
and it also reviews strategic plans and operating and financial
performance and the central and administrative functions of the Group.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The standing Board committees are the Audit Committee, the
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee. All
committees have formal terms of reference and a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved to them for their decision. The Board
receives and reviews minutes of the meetings of each Board
Committee at the first Board meeting following the relevant 
committee meeting.
The Audit Committee, which meets on at least four occasions in the
year, was chaired by Sir David Cooksey, until 3 September 2002.
Sir David Cooksey was succeeded as Chairman by Christopher
Rowlands, appointed on 20 December 2002. The other members of
the Audit Committee are James Parkinson, Roger Parry and David
Sculley. Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is
responsible for planning and reviewing our annual, interim and
quarterly reports and accounts and the involvement of our auditors in
that process, focusing particularly on compliance with legal
requirements and accounting standards and the requirements of the
Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Nomination Committee meets as required and is chaired by David
Sculley. The other members are Brendan Hopkins and Ivan Fallon. It
provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of
new Directors to the Board, which was followed in the case of the
appointment of Christopher Rowlands.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Roger Parry. Its other
members are Christopher Rowlands and David Sculley. Sir David
Cooksey resigned on 3 September 2002 and Christopher Rowlands
was appointed on 20 December 2002. It advises the Board on
executive remuneration policy and, in particular, makes
recommendations regarding the terms of employment of Executive
Directors, their remuneration and the awarding of share options and
other incentives. The Remuneration Report of the Board on pages 20
to 22 provides further information. The Remuneration Report will be
submitted for adoption by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
on 16 May 2003.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors' statement on going concern is dealt with on page 15.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control,
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, due to the
limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, it is
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement
or loss. PAGE 24 iTOUCH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance continued
The Group has a process of regular reporting, both financial and non-
financial, by all business units. Formal policies and procedures are in
place in these units and budgets and forecasts are prepared which
allow management to monitor business performance.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This process has
been in place throughout the year to 31 December 2002. The process
will be reviewed at least annually by the Board and accords with the
guidance set out in the Turnbull Report.
Information on the Group's significant risks, together with the relevant
control and monitoring procedures, is reviewed for completeness and
accuracy by the Group's management. This information is presented to
the Board of Directors to assess the effectiveness of the system of
internal control. In addition, the Board and the Committees of the
Board, details of which are set out above, monitor the Group's
significant risks on an ongoing basis. 
A programme of reviews by iTouch plc management takes place 
bi-annually to monitor compliance and to perform reviews of control
activities. The results of this process are reviewed by the Chief
Executive Officer of iTouch plc and then presented to the Board 
bi-annually as a further part of their review of the Group's 
internal controls. This process will be reviewed and strengthened 
as appropriate.
The Group has an investment in a joint venture in Israel. Whilst iTouch
Israel is included within the scope of the bi-annual reviews of control
activities, the Group can only influence, but not control, management
practices in the joint venture.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company holds briefing meetings with its major institutional
shareholders usually after the quarterly, interim and preliminary final
results' announcements. Analysts and financial journalists are also
invited to presentations of the financial results.
The principal communication with private investors is through the
provision of the Annual Report, the quarterly and interim financial
statements and the Annual General Meeting, an occasion at which all
shareholders are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and
the Board. The proxy votes cast in relation to the resolutions proposed
at the 2003 Annual General Meeting will be disclosed to those in
attendance at the meeting.
Financial and other information is made available on the Company's
internet website at www.itouchplc.com.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITY
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors
are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed;
and
  prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are
also responsible for the systems of internal financial controls and for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities. The maintenance and integrity of the iTouch plc
website is the responsibility of the Directors. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the financial statements.