 10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 
Statement of corporate governance
Group Chief Executive's membership of the Nomination
Committee. 
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year .
Its responsibilities include making recommendations on the
Company's accounting and reporting policies, reviewing the
scope and results of both internal and external audits and
defining and monitoring internal financial control. It also
reviews the performance, independence and objectivity of the
auditors. The Committee receives regular reports from the
Group Internal Audit Department and the external auditors,
and monitors their effectiveness, and it reviews the interim 
and annual financial statements before they are considered 
by the Board. The Board had adopted a revised policy on 
the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit
services, the objective of which is to ensure that the provision
of such services does not impact the external auditors'
independence and objectivity. The Head of Group Internal Audit
has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and
the Company's external auditors attend Committee meetings.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee holds separate meetings
with the Head of the Group Internal Audit and the external
auditors, whilst the Committee meets with the external
auditors without management being present.
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on the
appointment of Directors and meets when necessary. All
Directors are required to seek re-appointment by shareholders
at the first opportunity after their appointment and must stand
for re-election to the Board every three years under the
Company's Articles of Association.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set
out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 12 to 19.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of
internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve the Group's business objectives
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. It includes all controls
including financial, operational and compliance controls and
risk management. 
The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal
control systems include the following:
 regular operational and financial reviews of performance
against budgets and forecasts by management and the
Board;
 regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee
of the scope and results of internal audit work across the
Group. The scope of the work covers all key activities of 
the Group and concentrates on higher risk areas;
 reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors 
by the Audit Committee and any significant issues arising;
 reviews by the Audit Committee and the Board of
accounting policies and delegated authority levels; and
 consideration by the Board of the major risks facing the
Group and procedures to manage them. These include health
and safety, legal compliance, quality assurance, insurance,
security and social, ethical and environmental risks.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate
governance in its business and has complied throughout the
period under review with all the provisions of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance ( the Code'). This statement,
together with the Remuneration Report, explains how the
Company has applied the governance principles of the Code. 
The Board
The Board comprises five Executive Directors and six 
Non-Executive Directors. Biographical details of the Directors
are set out in the Annual Review and Summary Financial
Statement on pages 16 and 17. Changes to the composition 
of the Board during the year and the Board succession plans
appear on page 8 of this report. There is a clear division of
responsibilities between the Chairman, who is part-time, and
the Group Chief Executive. All the Non-Executive Directors are
considered to be independent. They bring wide and varied
commercial experience to Board deliberations. Lord Levene 
is the senior Non-Executive Director .
The Board meets10 times a year , including a two day strategy
conference. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved 
for its consideration. It is responsible to shareholders for the
strategic development of the Group, the management of assets
in a way that maximises performance and the control of the
operation of the business. The Board approves the Group's
strategic plan and its annual budget and, throughout the year ,
reviews the performance of the operating subsidiaries against
their budgets and targets. 
The Group Chief Executive has authority delegated by the
Board for implementing the strategy and for managing the
Group. In doing so, he works with the Group Executive
Committee which comprises of all of the Executive Directors
and certain other senior executives of the Group. The Group
Chief Executive also chairs the Boards of Sainsbury's
Supermarkets Ltd and Shaw's Supermarkets Inc.
The Company has a programme for meeting Directors' training
requirements. Newly appointed Directors who do not have
previous public company experience at Board level are provided
with appropriate training on their role and responsibilities. New
Non-Executive Directors are offered an appropriate induction
programme. Subsequent training is available on an ongoing
basis to meet particular needs.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information
to enable it to discharge its duties effectively. The Chairman is
responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed
on issues arising at Board meetings.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary. There is an agreed procedure by which
members of the Board may take independent professional
advice at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their
duties. The Company Secretary has responsibility for ensuring
that Board procedures are followed. The appointment and
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters
reserved for the Board.
Board Committees
The Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees have
written terms of reference which define their authorities,
duties and membership. These Committees are made up
exclusively of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced
by the Group. This process has been in place throughout the
year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual
Report and Financial Statements and accords with the Turnbull
guidance. The effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a
year by the Audit Committee which then reports to the Board.
The process consists of:
 formal identification by management at each level of the
Group through a self assessment process of the key risks 
to achieving their business objectives and the controls in
place to manage them. The likelihood and potential impact
of each risk is evaluated;
 certification by management that they are responsible for
the risks to their business objectives and that the internal
controls are such that they provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance that the risks are appropriately
identified, evaluated and managed;
 reporting and review by the board of each operating
company of risk management activities and action taken 
to address non-compliance with controls or to improve 
their effectiveness; and
  independent assurance by internal audit as to the existence
and effectiveness of the risk management activities
described by management.
The system of internal control and risk management is
embedded into the operations of the Group, and the actions
taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
Going concern
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company
has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the Group financial statements.
Investor relations
The Company is committed to maintaining good
communications with shareholders. Institutional investors 
and buyside and sellside analysts are invited to briefings 
by the Company immediately after the announcement of 
the Company's interim and full year results. The content 
of these briefings is posted on the Company's website 
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investors/ so as to be available to
all shareholders. 
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the
Board at the Annual General Meeting, which will be held on 
23 July 2003. There will be a display of various aspects of the
Group's activities and a business presentation by the Group
Chief Executive. The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions.
Proxy votes will be announced after each resolution. A detailed
explanation of each item of special business to be considered
at the Annual General Meeting is included with the Notice of
Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working
days before the meeting.
Information on matters of particular interest to private
shareholders is set out on page 30 of the Annual Review and
Summary Financial Statement. In addition, the Company's
website www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investors/ makes available a
wide range of information to all shareholders.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 11