 Corporate governance
22
JKX Oil & Gas plc
Report and accounts 2002
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code
The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance which is
appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders 
Compliance
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 the Company has maintained procedures and policies that ensured compliance with the
code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code and the related Financial Services Authority Listing Rule disclosure requirements
as described below.
The Company agrees with most of the recommendations of the Higgs Report on the role of the non-executive directors and the Smith
Report which has looked at the responsibilities of Audit Committees. The Board is following the debate on some of the more controversial
recommendations that have been made and fully expects that it will be in a position to comply with the changes that are expected to be
made to the Combined Code in July.
The workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board, which is responsible to shareholders for leading and controlling the Company, comprises three non-executive directors and
three executive directors, details of whom are contained on pages 14 and 15. 
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company through the separation of positions of the non-executive Chairman
and the Chief Executive Officer. The non-executive directors are of varied backgrounds and experience and exercise independent and
objective judgement. 
The Board meets at least six times a year. Matters reserved for the Board are clearly laid down. The Board sets and monitors strategy,
reviews business plans and trading performance and overhead costs, approves major capital investment projects, examines acquisition
opportunities and divestment possibilities and significant financial and operational issues.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may, if needed, obtain independent professional advice, at the
Company's expense, in the execution of their duties. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr J R Mapplebeck, comprises the three non-executive directors. The Audit Committee, which
has T erms of Reference agreed by the Board, meets at least three times a year to review the Company's accounting policies, financial
reporting, internal control, compliance and risk management and maintains an objective and professional relationship with the auditors.
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director. At least once a year the Committee meet 
in private session with the auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year, through its T erms of Reference, assists the Board to determine 
the remuneration arrangements and contracts of the executive directors and senior employees. The Committee is chaired by 
Mr J R Mapplebeck and comprises the three non-executive directors. The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings by invitation.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. 
The report of the director's remuneration, which involves details of the directors' interest in options together with information on service
contracts, is set out on pages 24 to 28.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for identifying and evaluating the major business risks faced by the Company and for determining and monitoring
the appropriate course of action to manage these risks. The Audit Committee reviews the Company's internal control procedures and
reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Company's systems of internal control and risk management and has
concluded that the Company's procedures, policies and systems are appropriate and suitable to enable the Board to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the Company's assets.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the need for a dedicated internal audit function and has recommended to the Board that, due to the
scale and geographic distribution of the Company's licences and operating interests the Board continues to be best served by utilising
external specialist assistance on dedicated business and financial risk areas to supplement the Company's own risk analysis.
The process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are described below. In addition
the Company's independent auditors present reports to the Audit Committee, which include any significant internal control matters that they
have identified.
The process established has been in operation throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements, and
complies with the T urnbull Guidance. 23
JKX Oil & Gas plc
Report and accounts 2002
Business risk
An ongoing process is in place to enable the Board to identify the major business, operational, financial and compliance risks faced by the
Company and to determine the appropriate course of action to manage and monitor these risks. 
The Company identifies and distinguishes High Profile Events  i.e. those risks that could have material effect on the Company's financial
position or reputation, from other business risks that it assesses and which it considers to be acceptable for the Company to bear taking
into account the industry and the markets in which it operates. 
During 2002 the Audit Committee has reviewed all of the Company's subsidiaries and investments from a business, operational and financial
risk perspective to ensure that the system of internal control and accountability is embedded in the operations of the Group. 
The Audit Committee considers that management are conscious of the need to identify and assess risks in their operations and the effect 
of changes in the business environment, to respond quickly and appropriately and to report immediately any significant control failings and
weaknesses that are identified together with details of corrective action. 
Management structure
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive has been given responsibility and is accountable for specific aspects of the Group's affairs. The executive directors together
with the key senior executives constitute the Executive Committee, which meets as required to discuss operational matters. 
Financial reporting
The Company maintains an effective and reliable accounting and management information system. The Board receives a monthly report that:
monitors actual performance against budget for oil and gas production; sales and costs; and provides the Board with information on
debtors, the cash position and to the financial implications of key sensitivities including changes in world oil price and US$ exchange rates.
Budgetary process
Each year the Board approves the annual budget. Key risk areas are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action taken
throughout the year through the monthly reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the year together 
with information on the key risk areas.
Corporate accounting and procedures manual
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate accounting and procedures manual which sets out,
inter alia, the general ethos of the Group, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and control procedures
together with accounting policies and procedures. The manual, which includes a summary of investment techniques and procedures and
standards, is reviewed regularly and updated as required. 
The application of internal financial control and operational procedures are reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by head office staff.
Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses. High quality
personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated through the
corporate accounting and procedures manual.
Investment appraisal
Capital investment is regulated by the budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified levels detailed written
proposals have to be submitted to the Board. Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is complete and, for some projects, during the
acquisition period, to monitor expenditure. Major overruns in terms of cost and time are investigated. 
The internal financial control situation is reported to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
financial controls as it operated during the year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
Communication with shareholders
Extensive information about the Group's activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report, which are 
sent to shareholders. There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their
shareholding and the business of the Group are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner. All shareholders are
encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group. 
Going concern
After making inquiries and taking into consideration the Ukrainian business environment, as detailed in note 1 of the accounts, together with
reviewing the Company's budget for 2003 and its medium term plans, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has
adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future. The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to
be adopted.
By order of the Board
Lord Fraser of Carmyllie 
Chairman
26 March 2003