  
Corporate Governance 2006 
 
Anglesey Mining plc 16 
Principles 
The board bases its policies and practices in relation to corporate governance on the 2003 FRC Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority. 
The board supports the highest standards in corporate governance and endeavours to implement the principles 
of the Combined Code constructively and in a sensible and pragmatic fashion with the objective of enhancing 
and protecting shareholder value. This is always harder in a small group than in the larger organisations with 
which the Combined Code is chiefly concerned. It is particularly problematic for a company such as ours which 
is both small and engaged in mineral development rather than more routine operations. The company has made 
use of the Guidance for Smaller Quoted Companies published by the Quoted Companies Alliance in 2004 which 
relates to the implementation of the Combined Code for smaller quoted companies. 
The Board  
For the first nine months of the year the board comprised two executive directors and three non-executive 
directors. On 10 January 2006 Bill Hooley was appointed as an executive director and Roger Turner as a non-
executive director. 
For the purposes of the Combined Code Howard Miller is the senior independent non-executive director and 
David Lean is an independent director. As described in note 28, Danesh Varma is a shareholder in and director of 
Juno Limited, which holds 42.1% of the company's ordinary shares. He has been a director for more than 9 
years, and will henceforth be subject to annual re-election to the board: under the Code provisions he is not 
deemed to be independent.  
There are cases where board members are also co-directors of other companies; the board does not believe 
that these instances in any way compromise the independence or ability of the directors to carry out their 
duties in respect of the company.  
The board meets when required and all board members are supplied with relevant and timely information. The 
company's strategy is always determined by the whole board and the schedule of matters reserved to it is 
therefore comprehensive. The board approves detailed budgets and activities and any material changes to 
budgets or planned activities are also approved by the whole board.  
There is an established procedure by which directors may, at the company's expense, take independent advice 
in the furtherance of their duties. They also have access to the advice and services of the company secretary 
who is charged with ensuring that board procedures are followed.  
The board continues to consider the introduction of a system for monitoring its own performance, including 
that of the board committees, and a programme to develop directors' skills and expertise but has not 
implemented any measures as yet. 
There are written terms of reference for the remuneration and audit committees, each of which deals with 
specific aspects of the group's affairs. The board receives periodic reports from all committees.  
Remuneration committee 
The remuneration committee comprises Howard Miller and Danesh Varma. It is responsible for making 
recommendations to the board on the company's executive remuneration. The committee determines any 
contract terms, remuneration and other benefits, including share options, for each of the executive directors. 
The board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors. The report on directors' 
remuneration is set out above.  
Audit committee 
The committee's terms of reference have been approved by the board and follow published guidelines. The 
audit committee comprises Danesh Varma and David Lean. Both are chartered accountants with extensive 
mineral industry experience and have the necessary recent and relevant experience required by the Combined 
Code. 
The audit committee reviews the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to the board, 
focusing in particular on accounting policies and areas of management judgment and estimation. The 
committee is responsible for monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the information reported to 
the shareholders is accurate and complete. The committee discusses internal control issues and contributes to 
the board's review of the effectiveness of the group's internal control and risk management systems. It also 
considers the need for an internal audit function, which it believes is not required at present due to the limited 
staff and operations of the company. The members of the committee have agreed to make themselves available   
Corporate Governance 2006 
 
Anglesey Mining plc 17
should any member of staff wish to make representations to them about the conduct of the affairs of the 
company.  
The committee advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration for both 
audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors. It meets 
formally at least once a year with the group's external auditors. During the period, the audit committee has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. An analysis of the fees payable to the external 
audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 5 to the financial 
statements.  
The audit committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year which 
includes: a review of any non-audit services provided to the group (there were none in 2005 and 2006); 
discussion with the auditors of all relationships with the company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence; a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the 
independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of 
the audit partner; and obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, 
they are independent. 
Nomination committee 
A nomination committee has not yet been set up. The two new directors appointed during the year were 
approached following a review by the whole board of a number of candidates. 
All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.  
Assessment of directors' performance  
The performance of the non-executive directors is assessed by the chairman and is discussed with the senior 
independent director. The performance of executive directors is discussed and assessed by the remuneration 
committee. The directors will take outside advice in reviewing performance when they consider this necessary, 
which has not been the case to date.  
Internal control  
The board of directors is responsible for and annually reviews the group's systems of internal control, financial 
and otherwise. Such systems provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of the safeguarding of assets, the 
maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information. The key feature of the 
group's financial control system is that board members directly monitor all payments and transactions as well as 
budgets and annual accounts. The board considers it inappropriate because of the company's limited operations 
to establish an internal audit function at present; however this decision is reviewed annually.  
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 
2006 and up to the date of approval of the report and financial statements that have required the board to deal 
with any related material internal control issues. The directors confirm that the board has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control as described during the period.  
Risks and uncertainties 
In reviewing the other risks facing the company, the board considers it is sufficiently close to the company's 
operations and aware of its activities to be able to adequately monitor risk without the establishment of any 
formal process. The company may become subject to risks against which it cannot insure or against which it 
may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. The board believes the significant risks 
facing the company are adequately disclosed in these financial statements and that there are no other risks of 
comparable magnitude which need to be disclosed.  
Communication with shareholders  
Extensive information about the group and its activities is given in the annual report and accounts, and the 
interim report, which are sent to shareholders. Further information is available on the company's website, 
www.angleseymining.co.uk, which is promptly updated whenever announcements or press releases are made.  
The chairman holds meetings with substantial shareholders at least once per year, more often when 
appropriate, and other directors frequently join these and other meetings with smaller shareholders.  
Every effort is made to reply promptly and effectively to enquiries from shareholders on matters relating to 
their shareholdings and the business of the group.    
Corporate Governance 2006 
 
Anglesey Mining plc 18 
Attendance at board meetings 
During the year attendance at meetings was as follows: 
Director Board Audit Remuneration 
No. of meetings 6 2 1 
John Kearney 6 - - 
Ian Cuthbertson 6 - - 
Bill Hooley 2 - -   out of 2 possible 
Howard Miller 6 - 1 
David Lean 6 2 -  
Roger Turner 1 - -   out of 2 possible 
Danesh Varma 6 2 1 
 
Compliance with the Combined Code 
The directors believe that the company has complied with the requirements of the Combined Code during the 
year with the following exceptions: 
  A.2.1  John Kearney is the chairman and chief executive. In the light of the size and activity level of the 
company, the board believes that the combination of these roles is appropriate at present. This position 
will be kept under active review. 
  A.4.1  There is no formal nominations committee.  
  A.4.4  There are no written terms and conditions regarding the appointment of non-executive directors.  
  A.6.1 There has been no formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the performance of the board, its 
committees and the individual directors; consideration is being given to the best method of implementing 
such an evaluation. 
  B.2.1 and C.3.1  Danesh Varma is a member of the audit and remuneration committees: solely because he 
has been on the board for more than 9 years, under the Code provisions he is not defined as independent. 
 
 