 38 Johnson Matthey
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) relating
to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of
the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for
financial reporting, internal control and audit. This statement
describes how the principles of the Code have been applied. The
group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout
the year except that the board has taken the view that it is not
necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the
Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major
shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such
discussions are requested by shareholders. The methods by which
major shareholders' views are communicated to the board as a
whole are discussed under  Relations with Shareholders' on page 39.
Directors and the Board
The board is responsible to the company's shareholders for the
group's system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives
and the stewardship of the company's resources and is ultimately
responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters. The board
held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to
review the group's long term strategy. The board delegates specific
responsibilities to board committees, as described below. The board
reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and
presentations to enable it to do so effectively. The Company Secretary
is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors,
in respect of board procedures.
Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive. The board currently
comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive
directors and five independent non-executive directors. Sir John
Banham became Chairman on 1st April 2006 following the retirement
of Mr H M P Miles. Sir John Banham's other commitments are
disclosed on page 34. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are
separate. The Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director,
particularly the non-executive directors, is able to make an effective
contribution. He monitors, with assistance from the Company
Secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is
sufficient, accurate, timely and clear. The Chief Executive maintains
day-to-day management responsibility for the company's operations,
implementing group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
Mr C D Mackay is the Senior Independent Director. The role of
non-executive directors is to enhance independence and objectivity
of the board's deliberations and decisions. All non-executive directors
are independent of management and free from any business or
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise
of their independent judgment. The executive directors have specific
responsibilities, which are detailed on pages 34 and 35, and have
direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every
three years. The board composition allows for changes to be made
with minimum disruption.
During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of its
performance and the performance of its committees and the
individual directors. A questionnaire, prepared by the Chairman with
the assistance of the Company Secretary, was completed by all
directors other than the Chairman. The questionnaire focused on the
operation of the board, its committees and individual directors'
contributions. A summary of the responses was prepared by the
Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting. In addition,
led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors
met without the Chairman present to consider evaluation of the
Chairman's performance.
Committees of the Board
The Chief Executive's Committee is responsible for the
recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and
on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate. It is also
responsible for the executive management of the group's business.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets
monthly. It comprises the executive directors and three senior
executives of the company.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its
responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control. The
Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the
group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director
and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
A report from the Committee on its activities is given on page 41.
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board
responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on
the appointment of new directors. The Committee is chaired by Sir
John Banham and also comprises all the independent non-executive
directors. A report from the Committee on its activities is given on
page 40.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee
(MDRC) is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on
behalf of the board the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises all the
independent non-executive directors of the company together with
the group Chairman who was appointed to the Committee during
the year. The Chief Executive and the Director of Human Resources
attend by invitation except when their own performance and
remuneration are discussed. Further details are set out in the
Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48 includes details of
remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The board considers effective communication with shareholders,
whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders,
to be extremely important.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its
half year and full year results are announced and an interim report
and a full report are issued to shareholders. These reports are
posted on Johnson Matthey's website (www.matthey.com). At the
same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to
institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other
international centres. Copies of major presentations are also posted
on the company's website.
The company's annual general meeting (AGM) takes place in
London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the
Annual Report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors are available for questions, formally during the AGM
and informally afterwards. Details of the 2007 AGM are set out in
the notice of the meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that
their views are communicated to the board as a whole. The
Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with
major shareholders. The board believes that appropriate steps have
been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the
board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders
about the company. The board is provided with brokers' reports and
feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis. The
canvassing of major shareholders' views for the board in a detailed
investor survey is usually conducted every two years by external
consultants. The board has taken the view that these methods,
taken together, are a practical and efficient way both for the Chairman
to keep in touch with major shareholder opinion on governance and
strategy and for the Senior Independent Director to learn the views
of major shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of
their issues and concerns. The Senior Independent Director is
available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Accountability, Audit and Control
The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation
of the Annual Report and the accounts is set out on page 48.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a
balanced and understandable assessment of the group's financial
position and prospects.
The group's organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
These are all separately managed but report to the board through a
board director. The executive management team receives monthly
summaries of financial results from each division through a
standardised reporting process.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process
including forecasts for the next two years. Variances from budget
are closely monitored.
The board has overall responsibility for the group's systems of
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. The internal
control systems are designed to meet the group's needs and
address the risks to which it is exposed. Such systems can provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the company, which has
been in place during the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The board regularly
reviews this process.
The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the
board and updated on an annual basis. At the business level, the
processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part
of the control environment. Key risks and internal controls are the
subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executive's Committee.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group
operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and
authority limits of the various board and executive committees and
also specifies what may be decided without central approval. It is
supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals
issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or
departments. The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with
which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical
controls over precious metals held at the group's sites.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Committees of the Board (continued)
Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2006/07 was as follows:
Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee
Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to
Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended
------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
Sir John Banham 7 7 2 4
(1)
33 -4
(1)
N A P Carson 7 7 - 4
(1)
-3
(1)
-4
(1)
M BDearden 7 7443344
P NHawker 7 7------
C DMackay 77443344
D WMorgan 7 7------
L CPentz 7 7------
J N Sheldrick 7 7 - - - - - 4
(1)
I C Strachan 7 6 4 4 3 3 4 3
A MThomson 77443344
R J WWalvis 77443344
------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
(1)
Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39