 80
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Responsibility - continued
Fatalities
We are deeply saddened that 19 employees and five 
contractors lost their lives at our managed operations  
in 2011. Whilst this is an improvement on 27 employee 
and five contractor fatalities in 2010, one fatality is too 
many. We have restated our fatal accidents figure for 
2010 to include one fatality caused by a road accident 
that occurred off site.
Of the five contractors who sadly died, three worked  
in the Mining Division and two at the Ekibastuz power 
plant. Details of actions taken in response are found in 
the section below under  Contractor Safety'.
The employee fatalities represent 0.19 fatal injuries per 
million hours worked. Rock falls were the most common 
cause of fatalities among employees, and led to eight 
employee accidents in 2011. It is essential to introduce 
proper structural support immediately after excavation. 
We invested heavily in new equipment for this purpose  
in 2011, including nine roof-inspection trucks and 14 
roof-bolting machines. In addition, specialists from the 
Mining Division are taking part in scientific studies into 
rock mass management and subsidence due to mining, 
with a view to developing safer and more efficient 
working practices.
We have identified that the underlying cause of many 
fatal accidents is failure to isolate and make safe an 
energy source before work starts. By energy source,  
we mean any mechanical, chemical, thermal, electric, 
electromagnetic or other types of energy. To prevent 
further incidents like this, we have introduced new 
standards and procedures for identifying energy sources 
and ensuring they are made safe before work begins.  
We are also centralising the purchase of isolating 
equipment to ensure new items are of the right quality 
and specification, and are refreshing our training to  
ensure relevant employees understand how to use 
equipment safely.
We investigate every fatal incident and serious incident 
and report findings to the GHSE Committee and Fatal 
Accident and Serious Incident Review Panel. The 
investigation reports are sent to department heads  
and the HSE Committee chairman as soon as they are 
completed. We continue to provide financial support  
to the families of the victims of fatal accidents.
Employee fatalities by cause in 2011
 Rock fall 42%
 Falling objects 5%
 Contact with 
machine parts
 21% 
Self-moving 
equipment 
and pedestrians
16%
Electrocution 11%
Exposure to 
extreme temperatures
5%
Health and Safety
A safe operation is an efficient operation. We continue to 
work hard to build a safety culture throughout our business, 
to improve operational and safety performance for the long 
term. This is not easy in an industry that, in addition to 
common workplace hazards, involves heavy equipment, 
explosives and hazardous chemicals - often underground 
and at extreme temperatures. However, we firmly believe 
that our long-term goal of zero fatalities is achievable.
We maintain a position of zero tolerance to non-
compliance with our safety policies and standards and 
continue to promote our 10 key safety rules. In addition, 
in 2011 we established  Five Steps Towards Safety'. These 
are simple steps each employee can personally take to 
ensure the safety of their immediate workplace. They are:
 I understand my permit to work and all the hazards 
involved in my work
 My route to my workplace is safe
 All my tools and equipment are in good working order
 My workplace is safe
 I am aware of all work being carried out around  
my workplace. 
We carried out 1,850 internal site safety inspections in 
2011 and stopped operations on 266 occasions as a 
result of safety violations. Most violations related to 
inadequate reinforcement for tunnel roofs and workings. 
This year, one employee was dismissed and 638 were 
subject to disciplinary proceedings for violations found 
during inspections.
We received 20 reports of concerns through our 24-hour 
anonymous phone line, compared with 21 in 2010. The 
majority of reports received did not relate to health and 
safety and were sent to the relevant departments for 
resolution. Four reports did relate to health and safety. 
These allegations related to ventilation on a specific level 
at a mine, contractor equipment that did not meet our 
standards, penalties for health and safety violations, and 
an injury that actually occurred outside the workplace. All 
four incidents were carefully investigated and actions 
taken in response.
After analysing the causes of fatalities and injuries, we 
have developed a more detailed set of 35 Group health 
and safety standards for the areas where most incidents 
occur. These include contact between moving equipment 
and pedestrians, working at height, isolation of energy 
sources, handling explosives and use of lifting 
equipment. Some standards were introduced in 2011, 
others will be implemented in 2012.
Directors' Report: Corporate Responsibility www.kazakhmys.com 
81
4
Incidents and injuries
In 2011, our employees experienced 155 lost time  
injuries (LTI), a 6% increase on 2010. An initial increase  
in the frequency of LTIs, from 1.47% to 1.55 per million 
hours worked, is to be expected as we encourage 
incident reporting as part of our drive to improve  
health and safety. The main causes of LTIs were slips,  
trips and falls and rock falls.
The Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station experienced one  
LTI in 2011, compared to seven in 2010. Though it is hard 
to pinpoint the precise root of this improvement, 
contributing factors are likely to include weekly meetings 
to discuss issues arising during audits and inspections, as 
well as strict contractor management (see below).
We are also implementing Emex incident management 
software for our facilities. The software will record all 
incidents and corrective action taken centrally, and 
identify trends. During 2011, we finished translating the 
system into Russian. We are now customising it to reflect 
our Group health and safety standards and regulatory 
requirements, and we are inputting historical data on 
injuries and occupational diseases. We will begin using 
the system in 2012.
Our Zhezkazgan Complex has introduced a range of 
measures to reduce safety incidents. For example, in 
December 2010 the region issued three safety tickets to 
each employee; green, yellow and red. Employees lose 
their green ticket for their first safety violation, and may 
also receive a financial penalty. The yellow ticket is lost 
after the second violation, and the employee must retake 
the entire 40 hours of initial safety training. After the third 
violation, employees lose their red ticket and usually their 
job. In line with Group policy, employees will also be 
dismissed at any time if they break one of our 10 key 
safety rules.
Contractor safety
We select competent contractors using a matrix of safety 
requirements, and record and investigate all fatalities 
involving their employees. We will terminate contracts 
with companies that fail to meet our safety standards.  
We train site managers to reinforce their responsibility  
for managing contractors and, in 2011, two safety 
specialists from the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station 
received additional contractor management training.
The two contactor fatalities experienced at Ekibastuz 
GRES-1 this year are particularly disappointing. Both 
affected parties worked for subcontractors to companies 
we directly employ, and these are often small firms with 
few resources for safety training and implementation. 
Ekibastuz GRES-1 responded by introducing stricter 
contractor management. Examples include increased 
supervision for contractors working at night, and meeting 
with a contractor's entire team to discuss safety 
violations, rather than just the individual involved. There 
have been no fatalities at the power plant since these 
new controls were introduced.
Instilling safety know-how
In 2010, we described our new bespoke health and safety training course, 
developed and delivered on our behalf by experts from DuPont, an 
established safety leader. 
DuPont has now run four training modules, one in each quarter of 2011  
and each on a different safety topic: root cause analysis, risk assessment, 
behavioural auditing and safety leadership. We piloted each module with 
senior Kazakhmys employees to ensure the training was effective before 
running it in full.
The training took place at four sites: Balkhash, the East Region, Karaganda 
and Zhezkazgan. Where possible, the workshops were delivered at 
operational locations so exercises could take place in a real-life setting. In 
total, 440 of our site managers and safety officers attended. The DuPont 
team then trained a smaller group of 20 internal trainers to create the 
in-house expertise to deliver the course to the next level of line 
management. To date, 1,839 line managers have been trained internally 
and training will continue through 2012. 
Training is just one important element of our efforts to instil a safety 
culture. In the first quarter of 2012, DuPont began to review and upgrade 
our corporate safety standards in line with international best practices. 
They will help us to implement the revised standards to ensure they 
translate into a real reduction of risk to employees. Later in 2012, DuPont 
representatives will provide more in-depth practical training to employees 
in areas including safety audit and documentation. This will help 
employees to put into practice what they learned during DuPont's 
classroom training.
Safety training and communication
A safety culture relies on employees being aware of safe 
working practices and having the skills to apply them. We 
have created a dedicated HSE team within our training 
and development department to ensure this is always the 
case. In 2011, almost 26,000 employees of our Mining 
and Power Divisions received an average 41 hours of 
health and safety training each. 