 The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good
corporate governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the
Company's compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code. 
STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE
The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year with
the exception of provision B.2.1 as explained below. 
In line with ABI guidelines, the Board considers P B Plant no longer to be independent with effect from 10 February 2003 in view of his length
of service exceeding nine years. To ensure compliance as far as possible with the revised Combined Code, further Board appointments
will be necessary in 2004. 
THE WORKINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
The Board
Following the retirement of Philip Rogerson the Board comprises three executive and three Non-Executive Directors and their details are set
out on pages 8 and 9. Of the three Non-Executive Directors, P B Plant is no longer considered independent, as described above. The other
Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent. Following Mr Powell-Smith's appointment as Chairman of the
Board, SR Pettit becomes the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The Board meets at least six times per year to deal with matters
specifically reserved for its decision, which include agreeing and monitoring strategic plans and financial targets, and reporting to shareholders.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties all Directors receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed by
the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings. The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed
on issues arising at Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures that Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, have access to independent professional advice as required
and at the Company's expense. All Directors are encouraged to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy,
performance, resources (including key appointments) and standards of conduct. The Non-Executive Directors have a particular
responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully considered.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures
are followed and that the Board complies with applicable rules and regulations. The appointment and removal of the Company
Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Relevant and appropriate training is made available to every Director on the first occasion he or she is appointed to the Board of the
Company. There is a Board appraisal system in place which includes the assessment of training needs for all Directors.
To ensure that no single person has unfettered powers of decision over the Company there is a clear division of responsibility
between the running of the Board and the running of the Group's business. The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board
with the Chief Executive running the Group's business.
The following Committees report to the Board to enable it to meet its responsibilities:
Nomination Committee
Following the retirement of Philip Rogerson the Group's Nomination Committee will be chaired by C B Powell-Smith and consists of the
three Non-Executive Directors. The Committee meets as required and is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board,
having regard to the balance and structure of the Board, and monitors the composition of the Board. In appropriate cases recruitment
consultants are used to assist the process.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to
re-election thereafter by the shareholders at least every three years. Accordingly proposals will be put to the Annual General Meeting
in 2004 to elect W G Bright and P J Close and to re-elect P B Plant as Directors of the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
10 KBC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 KBC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 11
Remuneration Committee
The Group's Remuneration Committee is chaired by C B Powell-Smith and consists of the three Non-Executive Directors. P B Plant,
who is a member of the Committee, is no longer considered independent in view of his length of service exceeding nine years.
Further Board appointments will be necessary to ensure compliance with the revised Combined Code. The Committee is responsible
for determining policy, within agreed terms of reference, of the Group's framework of executive remuneration and its cost. The
Committee sets the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including performance
related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The Committee meets at least twice a year, with the Chief
Executive in attendance, to determine the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group. The Committee
takes professional advice on remuneration matters as appropriate.
Further details of the Group's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given on pages 13 to 19.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by S R Pettit, comprises the three Non-Executive Directors and meets at least twice a year.
Further Board appointments will be necessary to ensure compliance with the revised Combined Code. The Committee provides
a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive and the
Finance Director. The Audit Committee follows written terms of reference and is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters
including adequacy of the Group's accounting systems and control environment, together with its reporting procedures to shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and their remuneration, and discusses the nature,
scope and results of the audit with the external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness,
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including the level of non-audit fees charged.
Executive Committee
This comprises the Executive Directors and other senior managers, and meets monthly to direct, control and monitor the Group's
operations on a day-to-day basis.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of
internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. In pursuing these
objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A continuous process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date the accounts were approved for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in line with the
Turnbull guidance.
The Board has performed a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The processes used by the Board to review
the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following:
  The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the
Board for consideration.
  The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the result of Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board receives
minutes of all such meetings.
  The Audit Committee maintains close contact with the Finance Director and periodically instigates investigations into the
effectiveness and other aspects of internal control.
  The Board receives the results of risk self-assessment reports from business line managers covering the risks faced by the Group
together with compensating internal controls. A record of such risks is maintained and reviewed on a regular basis, with risk
weightings assigned to ensure priority is given to the major risks faced by the Group.
  The Board receives regular reports concerning the specific contract risks faced by the Group. 12 KBC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED)
The Board regularly considers social, ethical and safety issues relating to the Group.
Given the size of the Group, the Board does not believe that it is appropriate to have a separate internal audit function but reviews
the position annually.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
KBC values and maintains an active two way dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
Senior executives of the Group, including the Chief Executive and Finance Director, meet frequently with representatives of
institutional shareholders to discuss their views and review corporate governance issues. Information is also made available via the
Annual and Interim Reports and the Group's website (www.kbcat.com).
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to communicate with private and institutional shareholders and the Company
welcomes their participation. The Chairman ensures that the members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are
available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in
2004 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on page 49.
GOING CONCERN
The report and accounts are prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources
to meet its requirements for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this report.