 Corporate social responsibility
Overview
We believe that corporate responsibility is where businesses
take responsibility for the impact of their activities on customers,
suppliers, employees, shareholders, communities and the
environment. This is beyond the statutory obligation to comply
with legislation, with businesses voluntarily improving or
minimising the impact of their operations.
As a specialist electrical retailer we are well placed to manage an
effective approach to corporate responsibility that pursues profitable
growth while enhancing our brand equity.
Currently, our activities are locally driven, reflecting customer demands
and market sensitivities. We are however developing a common
approach with minimum standards for all the Group's businesses.
Initiatives underway fall into four key areas.
Supply chain
Improving labour, environmental and social practices in the Group's
supply chain, by ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are
made aware of our requirements and take all reasonable steps to
ensure they are met.
Environment
Improving the Group's use of energy, the impact of our transport fleet
and our use of bulk materials such as paper and packaging. By
minimising waste, increasing energy efficiency and reducing our
consumption of materials.
People
Providing a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment
and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff. Offering
them a safe and healthy place of work. We wish to be recognised as a
good employer aiming to reward people fairly and to provide equality of
opportunity, personal development and training.
Communities
Working for our customers and local communities, contributing to
community activities in the areas we serve. Supporting and
encouraging staff fundraising for appropriate charitable organisations.
Supply chain
Customers increasingly expect that retailers should have procedures
in place to ensure that the products they sell have been ethically
produced from beginning to end.
Many of our electrical products are sourced through the major
international brands who have their own strong ethical and
environmental policies in place.
We do not have significant operations or retail outlets in countries that
present a material risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour
standards or protection of civil or political rights.
Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere
we ensure that our products have been tested for safety, health and
environmental issues. At the same time our policy is to work in
partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on the
environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
The Group sources its own label products from factories that are
committed to improving workers welfare and reducing environmental
impact. We believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit
from the trade in our products.
We have two kinds of audit procedures which are designed to ensure
proper environmental standards in our factories and to monitor the
quality of our products in this respect. These are known as the Factory
Audit and the Final Random Inspection. During the year we completed
66 factory audits and 2,690 inspections.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007/08 5
Comet on Call 
Comet offers a multimedia
support service for home and
small businesses across the UK. Corporate social responsibility
Our quality team based in China carries out regular factory audits to
ensure that they meet the strict social, environmental and supply chain
standards we require. We know the identity of all our suppliers and
where their products are being made.
The dedicated team also carries out random inspections of goods
before shipments are made to ensure that quality standards are being
maintained. They co-ordinate new product development which includes
working between quality engineers in Shenzhen and our quality
assurance laboratory based in the UK.
Environment
As a specialist electrical retailer we have a relatively low direct
environmental impact, but we still wish to minimise the environmental
impact of all our operations throughout the Group.
We actively promote and market energy efficient products that minimise
emissions of CO2.
In addition, we were the first retailer in the UK to test the energy
efficiency of all the televisions, DVD players and computers we sell
and then promote the better performing products in both stores
and on line.
We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and ensure
that it can be recycled. We collect all waste packaging when delivering
a household appliance unless the customer requests otherwise.
In France, Holland and the UK we have specialised equipment that
compresses all polystyrene packaging collected from customers'
homes and in France packaging waste is also collected from the
warehouses and after sales service centres.
As a further environmental measure we are consciously trying to
minimise the emissions from our transport operations. We have
modified our logistics operation to achieve a more efficient use of the
transport fleet. We also make use of satellite navigation systems to
improve our delivery schedules.
The WEEE directive has been in force for more than a year. As a
specialist electrical retailer with integrated stores, warehouses and
home delivery platforms we have been offering for many years, as part
of our customer service, many of the requirements the regulations
introduced. In France we have an award winning recycling programme
for end of life products that has been in operation for nearly two
decades and last year alone we recycled over 800,000 items.
People
As a specialist retailer committed to the best customer service, one of
our key differentiators and strengths is our people. We have over 27,000
employees across Europe and we want them all to have satisfying and
rewarding careers within the Group. By respecting and valuing our
employees we engage their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
We have platforms for our employees to be heard and we value their
input on how the business is being run. Our communication channels
include regular workers councils where issues are discussed with
representatives from across the organisation. We also have many
other forums for discussion and we regularly conduct employee
surveys which allow management to take a wide range of viewpoints
into account.
Our training programmes provide our people with the opportunities to
develop their skills, achieve rewarding careers within the Group and
better serve our customers. By assessing their abilities and ambitions
we gain a better understanding of their specific training needs.
We promote health, safety and welfare for both colleagues and
customers across all our sites and we have a team of advisors who
monitor and report to our Company Secretary on these issues.
We have established key performance indicators for accidents at work
and the number of accidents is being steadily reduced year on year.
6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007/08
800,000
end of life products recycled
in France alone. a community that was destroyed when a major storm flattened
thousands of trees.
Performance criteria
To help us assess and monitor progress against these targets we use
key performance indicators in non-financial areas. The focus for the
past two financial years has been:
1 The number of days spent on staff training
As a specialist electrical retailer, it is important that we have
talented staff who have excellent customers service skills and
product knowledge.
2 The number of accidents or injuries to staff
The provision of a safe and healthy place of work for our staff is a
primary concern and key responsibility.
3 The percentage of energy efficient A-rated products sold
Energy label ratings on fridge freezers help our customers choose more
efficient models. A-rated products use the least amount of energy
thereby benefiting both our customers and the environment
4 The number of tonnes of packaging waste collected
and recycled
Through our distribution channels and warehouses we can efficiently
collect our customers' waste for recycling
2007/08 2006/07
Staff Training 6,352 5,7
Accidents/injuries 2,02 2,2
A-rated products* 8.6% 76.9%
Package waste (tonnes) 0,6 22,573
* Percentage of fridge/freezer sales which are A-rated
We have established a written Code of Conduct which outlines the
ethical standards we expect from all employees of companies within
the Group.
Communities
As a Group, we have more than 700 stores, warehouses and regional
and head offices across 2 European countries and we are committed
to working with the many communities this represents. We work in
partnership with outside organisations to address a number of long
standing social issues and we support a range of different charities on
a regional basis.
In France we have a long standing reputation for helping the
disadvantaged. Through our ENVIE programme, previously long-termed
unemployed are trained in the repair of electrical products. Also in
France we donated  38,000 to the Fondation Pasteur Weizman for
medical research and  70,000 to Telemaque which helps young people
from disadvantaged homes pursue their education.
In the UK we raise money for the Make a Wish  foundation through
a wide range of employee initiatives and schemes. During the past
5 months we have raised over  250,000.
In Holland we have signed a three-year contract with the World Wildlife
Foundation (WWF) for a total of  50,000. In return for supplying
necessary funds for the foundation, we use the WWF logo to promote
energy efficient products in our stores.
In Belgium and France we raise funds through the sale of toy models of
our after-sales service vans. In Belgium, for the 5 months to 30 April
2008, we raised  9,000 for de Poel , an organisation that helps the
social integration of disabled people. In France we raised nearly
 86,000 for children's charities.
In the Czech Republic we plant a tree  on behalf of every customer
who purchases goods over the value of  50. This is helping re-build
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007/08 7
0,000
tonnes of packaging waste
collected from customers
and then recycled.