 AUDIT COMMITTEE
satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this 
requirement as appropriate weight has been given to both 
positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement the Audit Committee has 
considered the robust process which operates in creating 
the report and accounts, including:
   clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors 
   revisions to regulatory requirements, including the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, are monitored on an 
ongoing basis
   early warning meetings are conducted between business 
unit management and the auditors in advance of the year 
end reporting process
   input is provided by senior management and corporate 
functions
   a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification  
of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure 
accuracy and consistency
   further reviews are conducted by senior management
   a review is conducted by external advisors appointed to 
advise management on best practice with regard to creation 
of the report and accounts
   a meeting of the Audit Committee is held to review and 
consider the draft annual report and accounts in advance  
of the final sign-off
   final sign-off is provided by the Board of directors.
Committee discussions in 2013
The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2013. 
In January, the Committee:
   received an update on the status of the Minas-Rio project 
and discussed the impairment to be recommended to 
the Board, together with the proposed disclosure in the 
financial statements
   received a report from management on the Minas-Rio 
project status, in addition to a report provided by consultants 
appointed by the Board to give an independent assessment 
of the project, including recommendations for expediting its 
completion. Based on these presentations that included 
robust challenges to management and detailed discussion of 
project risks, the Audit Committee agreed to recommend to 
the Board revised capital spend and the proposed impairment. 
The Committee sought input from the external auditor over 
the impairment number in reaching its conclusion.
In February, the Committee: 
   reviewed in detail the significant accounting issues and the 
press release for the 2012 year end results. A number of 
proposed impairments were presented by management 
and questioned by the Committee prior to reaching 
agreement on the proposals. The Committee sought input 
from the external auditor in reaching its position
   received a presentation from management on the internal 
control environment within the newly established 
commercial operating model. The Committee satisfied itself 
that the internal control environment for the new Singapore 
marketing and commercial function was designed 
appropriately and operating effectively
The Audit Committee plays a critical role in ensuring 
high quality financial reporting and providing 
assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the 
internal control environment. 
David Challen  
Chairman, Audit Committee
Composition
Compliant with the Code:
   David Challen - chairman
   Judy Dlamini
   Byron Grote
   Sir Philip Hampton
   Phuthuma Nhleko
   Anne Stevens
David Challen 
Chairman, Audit Committee
Role and responsibilities
   Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial 
statements, the accompanying reports to shareholders and 
corporate governance statements.
   Making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
   Overseeing the Group' s relations with the external auditors 
including assessment of independence and effectiveness of 
the external auditor.
   Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
retention and removal of the external auditors and tendering 
of external audit services.
   Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group' s 
internal control and risk-management systems, including 
reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and 
reporting all key risks.
   Approving the terms of reference and plans of the internal 
audit function.
   Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular 
reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness  
of the internal control system.
   Receiving reports from management on the key risks  
of the Group and management of those risks. Further 
details of such risks are provided on pages 46-53.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable
A key requirement of our financial statements is for  
the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and 
understandable. The Audit Committee and the Board are 
109 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance In December, the Committee:
   received a presentation from management on a proposed 
trading initiative for Thermal Coal. The Committee focused 
on the risks, governance and controls associated with the 
proposal and requested assurance that the controls 
operate as intended at a future meeting
   received a presentation from management on the 
De Beers business, its risks, internal control matters and 
the enhancement to internal controls arising from its 
integration into Anglo American. The Committee 
questioned aspects of the business and its complexities to 
ensure a deeper understanding of the key issues that 
affect the risk profile and performance of the business
   reviewed the detailed analysis presented by management 
on the significant accounting issues that would impact the 
2013 financial results. The Committee probed 
management on the assumptions made and conclusions 
reached, requesting input from the external auditor. 
Principal issues included the proposed impairments and 
provisions for the Anglo American Platinum portfolio 
review, Barro Alto, Foxleigh, Michiquillay, Platinum tax 
matters, accounting for the disposal of Amap , and 
accounting for the exit from the Pebble project. The 
Committee also received an update on the Minas-Rio 
project, challenging the assumptions used in the latest 
valuation. The Audit Committee approved the 2013 audit 
fee, having reviewed the factors generating changes  
from 2012
   discussed the UK Corporate Governance Code 
requirement to put the audit contract out to tender at least 
every 10 years, and the outcome of the UK Competition 
Commission final report and likely changes in law  
from October 2014. In the context of the current UK  
regulatory guidance, the Committee agreed to make a 
recommendation to the Board on the approach to audit 
tendering, as explained in more detail on page 1 12
   approved the external audit plan for the 2013 audit and 
external auditor's view on the key audit risks. The 
Committee discussed these risks and satisfied itself they 
were aligned with management's view on audit risks
   noted the status of recommendations provided by the 
external auditor in respect of control matters highlighted in 
the 2012 audit
   approved the proposed 2014 internal audit plan after 
evaluation of the process by which the plan was generated 
and satisfying itself that the key areas of risk were covered 
by the plan
   received an update on the Anglo American risk profile, 
focusing on changes in external conditions and progress 
with mitigation. The Committee also received the updated 
risk profiles for the business units and plans for risk 
assessment work in 2014
   reviewed its Terms of Reference and concluded no 
changes were necessary, and met the internal and external 
auditors without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee report is set out on pages 1 1 1- 1 16.
   reviewed the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource report, 
focusing on the significant changes from the previous year' s 
report and understanding the third party audit coverage plan 
for the three year period between 2012 and 2015
   noted the status of actions in connection with control 
improvements recommended by the external auditor from 
the 2011 audit
   noted and approved the register of non-audit assignments 
conducted by the external auditors in 2012
   reviewed a report on completion of the 2012 internal audit 
plan and discussed the significant findings, while noting the 
internal control environment was judged to be effective 
based on an overall assessment of risk and assurance work, 
and met with the internal and external auditors without the 
presence of management.
In July, the Committee:
   received and discussed in detail an update of discussions 
with the South African tax authorities over matters relating 
to Anglo American Platinum. Following discussion the Audit 
Committee approved the level of provisioning and proposed 
disclosure, having sought assurance from the external 
auditor that both were appropriate
   evaluated management' s proposed accounting treatment 
and disclosure relating to various matters including: Amap  
mine, following the tragic incident at the port of Santana and 
the proposed sale; creation of the Lafarge T armac joint 
venture; and Anglo American Platinum restructuring. The 
audit committee provided comments to management on 
the draft interim results press release
   reviewed the assumptions underpinning the going concern 
assessment including forecast solvency and liquidity to 
enable it to approve the 2013 interim financial statements 
on a going concern basis
   satisfied itself that the external auditor was in agreement 
with the accounting treatment and judgement proposed by 
management on the significant accounting items
   considered and approved the register of non-audit 
assignments undertaken by the external auditor in the first 
half of 2013
   received a report on the progress of the internal audit plan 
for 2013 and discussed in detail the more significant items 
identified for management attention and results of matters 
that the internal audit team had been asked to investigate, 
requesting an update at the next meeting
   reviewed the risk profile of Anglo American and each of its 
business units based on a paper prepared by management. 
The Committee challenged the relative priority of the risks 
and evaluated the potential impact of the key risks, including 
potentially catastrophic risks, noting the controls in place to 
mitigate such risks and additional actions where required
   The Committee reviewed the process and results emerging 
from the annual review performed to evaluate the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor. The 
Committee agreed with the conclusion that the 2012 audit 
had been conducted effectively.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 110
GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES