 The Code
During the financial period ended 30 July 2006, the Company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of
the Code in all respects save for the following. There are some evaluations, reviews and meetings
identified below which are required by provisions A1.3, A6.1 and A7.2 of the Code but which have not
taken place; this is because there were only four months in the period being reported or because the
Directors believe such evaluations, reviews or meetings would only be productive if conducted more than
one year after the Company's flotation on 21 July 2005. It is the intention of the Directors that these
evaluations, reviews and meetings will take place in the financial period ending 29 July 2007.
The Board
The Board has nine members and it comprises the Chairman, four executive Directors and four
independent non-executive Directors. The Directors are listed with their biographies in Directors' Profiles.
There is a division of responsibilities between the Chairman, whose key responsibility is the effective
running of the Board, and the Chief Executive, whose key responsibility is the running of the business.
When Roger Matthews was appointed Chairman he was deemed to be independent under the provisions
of the Code; since the end of the financial period he has relinquished his position as chairman of
Sainsbury's Bank plc but other than this his other significant commitments have not changed between the
start of the financial period ended 30 July 2006 and the date of this report. 
Copies of the executive Directors' service agreements and of the non-executive Directors' letters of
appointment are available for inspection at the Registered Office during normal business hours and at
each Annual General Meeting.
Each newly appointed Director receives an induction on the responsibilities of a listed public company
director and/or on the Group's business. Thereafter, the Company provides the necessary resources for
developing this understanding and knowledge.
It is the intention during the financial period ending 29 July 2007 for the Chairman to facilitate discussions
with Directors on an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Board Committees and of individual
Directors. The non-executive Directors will evaluate the Chairman's performance, after taking into account
the views of the executive Directors. Any issues arising from the evaluations will be subject to an action
plan to ensure that the Directors are individually and collectively effective. 
During the financial period ended 30 July 2006 the attendance of each of the Directors at the meetings
held while he/she was a Director or a committee member are set out below.
Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration 
Committee Committee Committee
Paul Briant 2/2 - - -
Patrick Deigman 0/2 0/1 - 0/2
Clive Hatchard 2/2 - - -
Malcolm Heald 2/2 1/1 1/1 -
Steve Jenkins 2/2 - - -
Richard Kirk 2/2 - 1/1 2/2
Peter Ling 2/2 - - -
Roger Matthews 2/2 - 1/1 -
Gillian Wilmot 2/2 1/1 - 2/2
Patrick Deigman was unable to attend any meeting during the financial period ended 30 July 2006
through illness.
At each Annual General Meeting, all Directors appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting and
approximately one-third of the remaining Directors, including any Director who has not been elected or re-
elected at either of the two preceding Annual General Meetings, will retire by rotation and may seek re-
election. 
24 Land of Leather Holdings plc
Report & Accounts 17 weeks ended 30 July 2006
Corporate Governance Report
The Directors
recognise the value
and importance of
meeting the
standards of
corporate governance
set out in the
Combined Code on
Corporate
Governance
published by the
Financial Reporting
Council in June 2006
(Code). This
statement describes
the Company's
corporate governance
arrangements.
3. Front [c94401]  6/10/06  12:56  Page 24 Operation of the Board 
The Board met twice in the financial period ended 30 July 2006. The attendance of Directors at these meetings
is set out above. In the financial period to 29 July 2007 the Board is scheduled to meet six times and additional
meetings will be held as required.
During the financial period ended 30 July 2006 the non-executive Directors and the Chairman collectively did not
meet without the executive Directors being present but this had happened once in the previous financial period
ended 2 April 2006 and it is the intention that this will happen at least twice in the financial period ending 29 July
2007. 
The Board is primarily responsible for decisions on Group strategy, including approval of strategic plans, annual
budgets, interim and full year financial statements and reports, dividend and accounting policies and all material
capital projects, investments and disposals, and the monitoring of performance against budget and forecast.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which will be reviewed annually. 
The Board has adopted principles of good boardroom practice which set out procedures on how Directors are
given accurate, timely and clear information and how they can seek and obtain information or advice necessary
for them to discharge their duties. 
Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to three standing Committees of the Board: Audit, Nomination
and Remuneration. The membership of these Committees and a summary of their main duties under their terms
of reference are set out below. The full terms of reference may be viewed on the Group's website
(www.landofleather.co.uk). It is the intention that the Chairman of each of the Committees will attend the
Extraordinary General Meeting to answer any questions.
Audit Committee
Malcolm Heald is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and is also the Committee member identified as having
recent and relevant financial experience. The other members of the Committee are Patrick Deigman and Gillian
Wilmot. Roger Matthews, Clive Hatchard, Brian Neilly (Finance Director of Land of Leather Limited) and
representatives from the external auditors usually attend meetings of the Committee in advisory capacities. 
The Audit Committee met once in the financial period ended 30 July 2006 and met the external auditors without
any Company management being present.
The duties of the Audit Committee include monitoring the integrity of the Company's financial statements,
reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, reviewing procedures for
handling allegations from whistleblowers, overseeing the internal audit function, overseeing the relationship with
the external auditor, and reviewing the scope and results of audits. 
To guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditors being compromised, the Audit
Committee has adopted a policy under which any service provided by the external auditors must be approved
by the Committee or be within a pre-approved category and a pre-approved fee limit.
Nomination Committee
Roger Matthews is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the other members of the Committee are
Malcolm Heald and Richard Kirk. 
The Nomination Committee met once in the financial period ended 30 July 2006.
The duties of the Nomination Committee include reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board,
reviewing succession plans for the Directors, and making recommendations to the Board on membership of the
Board and of its Committees.
Remuneration Committee
Richard Kirk is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the other members of the Committee are
Patrick Deigman and Gillian Wilmot. Roger Matthews usually attends meetings of the Committee in an advisory
capacity.
The Remuneration Committee met twice in the financial period ended 30 July 2006.
25
3. Front [c94401]  6/10/06  12:56  Page 25 The duties of the Remuneration Committee include agreeing with the Board the policy for the
remuneration of the Chairman, the executive Directors and other senior management, determining awards
and targets under the share option scheme, and determining the individual remuneration packages of the
Chairman and executive Directors. The Remuneration Report provides details of how the Committee has
discharged these duties.
Relations with shareholders 
The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders through individual meetings with senior
management and the views of shareholders expressed during these meetings are reported to the Board.
The main opportunity for non-institutional shareholders to question the Directors is at general meetings
and it is the intention of each of the Directors to attend the Extraordinary General Meeting to be held on
16 November 2006.
Information about the Group may be viewed at anytime on the Group's website (www.landofleather.co.uk). 
Internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss. Between the start of the financial period ended 30 July 2006 and
the date of this report the executive Directors have continually identified, evaluated and managed material
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group which could have adversely affected the Group's business,
operating results and financial condition. The effectiveness of the internal control system and risk
management process is kept under review by the Audit Committee and was reviewed by the Board in
May 2006. The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Report of the Directors.
The Group operates a management structure with delegated authority levels and functional reporting lines
and accountability. The Group operates a budgeting and financial reporting system which compares actual
performance to budget and to the previous year on a monthly basis. In addition, the executive Directors
receive daily information on sales orders and margins and weekly information on like for like sales and
average order sales values together with other metrics and key performance indicators for the Group as a
whole. All capital expenditure and other purchases are subject to appropriate authorisation procedures.
This, together with the internal controls system and risk management process, allows management to
monitor financial and operational performance and compliance controls on a continuing basis and to
identify and respond to business risks as they arise. 
Approved by the Board of Directors
26 September 2006
26 Land of Leather Holdings plc
Report & Accounts 17 weeks ended 30 July 2006
Corporate Governance Report
. . . continued
3. Front [c94401]  6/10/06  12:56  Page 26