 The Code
During the financial period ended 29 July 2007, the Company complied with the provisions of Section 1
of the Code in all respects.
The Board
The Board has nine members and it comprises the Chairman, four executive Directors and four
independent non-executive Directors. The Directors are listed with their biographies in Directors' Profiles.
There is a division of responsibilities between the Chairman, whose key responsibility is the effective
running of the Board, and the Chief Executive, whose key responsibility is the running of the business.
When Roger Matthews was appointed Chairman he was deemed to be independent under the
provisions of the Code. During the financial period he has become chairman of LSL Property Services
plc and a non-executive director of MITIE Group plc and has relinquished his position as a non-
executive director of RHM plc; his significant commitments have not changed between the end of the
financial period and the date of this report. 
Copies of the executive Directors' service agreements and of the non-executive Directors' letters of
appointment are available for inspection at the Registered Office during normal business hours and at
each Annual General Meeting.
Each newly appointed Director receives an induction on the responsibilities of a listed public company
director and/or on the Group's business. Thereafter, the Company provides the necessary resources for
developing this understanding and knowledge.
The Chairman facilitates discussions with Directors on an evaluation of the performance of the Board,
the Board Committees and of individual Directors to ensure that the Directors remain individually and
collectively effective. The non-executive Directors evaluate the Chairman's performance, after taking into
account the views of the executive Directors. No issues requiring action arose from the evaluations
which took place during the financial period. 
During the financial period the attendance of each of the Directors at the meetings held while he/she was
a Director or a committee member are set out below.
Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration
Committee Committee Committee
Paul Briant 6/6 - - -
Patrick Deigman 4/6 1/3 - 1/3
Clive Hatchard 6/6 - - -
Malcolm Heald 6/6 3/3 1/1 -
Steve Jenkins 6/6 - - -
Richard Kirk 6/6 - 1/1 3/3
Peter Ling 6/6 - - -
Roger Matthews 6/6 - 1/1 -
Gillian Wilmot 5/6 3/3 - 3/3
At each Annual General Meeting, all Directors appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting and
approximately one-third of the remaining Directors, including any Director who has not been elected or
re-elected at either of the two preceding Annual General Meetings, will retire by rotation and may seek
re-election. 
Operation of the Board 
The Board met six times in the financial period. The attendance of Directors at these meetings is set out
above. In the current financial period the Board is scheduled to meet six times and additional meetings
will be held as required.
25
Corporate Governance Report
The Directors recognise the value and importance of meeting the
standards of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting
Council in June 2006 (Code). 
This statement describes the Company's corporate governance
arrangements. During the financial period the non-executive Directors and the Chairman met twice without the
executive Directors being present and it is the intention that this will be repeated in the current financial
period. 
The Board is primarily responsible for decisions on Group strategy, including approval of strategic plans,
annual budgets, interim and full year financial statements and reports, dividend and accounting policies
and all material capital projects, investments and disposals, and the monitoring of performance against
budget and forecast. There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which will be reviewed
annually. 
The Board has adopted principles of good boardroom practice which set out procedures on how
Directors are given accurate, timely and clear information and how they can seek and obtain information
or advice necessary for them to discharge their duties. 
Board Commit tees
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to three standing Committees of the Board: Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration. The membership of these Committees and a summary of their main
duties under their terms of reference are set out below. The full terms of reference may be viewed on the
Group's website (www.landofleather.co.uk). It is the intention that the Chairman of each of the
Committees will attend the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Audit Commit tee
Malcolm Heald is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and is also the Committee member identified as
having recent and relevant financial experience. The other members of the Committee are Patrick
Deigman and Gillian Wilmot; Richard Kirk was appointed an additional member with effect from 20
September 2007. The Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Finance Director of Land of Leather
Limited, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors usually attend
meetings of the Committee in advisory capacities. 
The Audit Committee met three times in the financial period and also met the external auditors without
any Company management being present.
The duties of the Audit Committee include monitoring the integrity of the Company's financial
statements, reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, reviewing
procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers, overseeing the internal audit function,
overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, and reviewing the scope and results of audits. 
To guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditors being compromised, the
Audit Committee has adopted a policy under which any service provided by the external auditors must
be approved by the Committee or be within a pre-approved category and a pre-approved fee limit.
Nomination Commit tee
Roger Matthews is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the other members of the
Committee are Malcolm Heald and Richard Kirk. 
The Nomination Committee met once in the financial period.
The duties of the Nomination Committee include reviewing the structure, size and composition of the
Board, reviewing succession plans for the Directors, and making recommendations to the Board on
membership of the Board and of its Committees.
Remuneration Commit tee
Richard Kirk is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the other members of the Committee
are Patrick Deigman and Gillian Wilmot; Malcolm Heald was appointed an additional member with effect
from 20 September 2007. The Chairman usually attends meetings of the Committee in an advisory
capacity.
The Remuneration Committee met three times in the financial period.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee include agreeing with the Board the policy for the
remuneration of the Chairman, the executive Directors and other senior management, determining
awards and targets under the share option scheme, and determining the individual remuneration
packages of the Chairman and executive Directors. The Remuneration Report sets out details of how the
Committee has discharged these duties.
Land of Leather Holdings plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
26
Corporate Governance...continued Relations with shareholders 
The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders through individual meetings with
senior management and the views of shareholders expressed during these meetings are reported to the
Board.
The main opportunity for non-institutional shareholders to question the Directors is at general meetings
and it is the intention of each of the Directors to attend the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22
November 2007.
Information about the Group may be viewed on the Group's website (www.landofleather.co.uk). 
Risk management and internal controls
The Group has an internal audit team of ten which carries out its function according to a programme
agreed by the Audit Committee. The programme comprises a balance of store audits, key financial
audits and risk based audits. The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Managing Director but has direct
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The work of the internal audit team is reported at each
meeting of the Audit Committee and this supports regular management reports to the Board in providing
assurance on both financial and non-financial risks and controls.
Between the start of the financial period and the date of this report the executive Directors have
continually identified, evaluated and managed material risks and uncertainties faced by the Group which
could have adversely affected the Group's business, operating results and financial condition. This
process is supplemented by a formal approach overseen by a committee of senior executives created in
May 2007, the Risk Committee. 
The formal risk management process is operated in the following stages:
- risks to the achievement of the strategy, new projects and objectives of the company are examined
via a workshop/interview approach;
- each risk is scored for probability and the financial impact that it could have on the business;
- the controls in place for each significant risk are recorded and assessed for adequacy to mitigate
that risk;
- each risk is recorded in the Group's risk register;
- the Risk Committee reviews each significant risk and any new and emerging risks and agrees any
additional actions required to mitigate those risks;
- reports are made to the executive Directors of the business and to the Board on the process and on
the progress of the mitigation of each significant risk; and
- the risk review is utilised by the internal audit team to drive the focus of risk-based audits in the
internal audit programme.
The principal risks facing the Group are set out in the Business Review.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group has an established framework of internal controls which includes the following key elements:
- the organisational structure of the Group is clearly defined ensuring that responsibilities and tasks
are appropriately assigned;
- the Group operates control procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance of complete and
accurate accounting of financial transactions and to limit exposure to loss of assets or fraud;
measures include physical controls, periodic internal audits and segregation of duties in key areas;
and
- the internal audit function facilitates an annual review of internal controls with resultant action plans
reported to the Audit Committee and to the Board.
The Board recognises that the review and assessment of the Group's system of internal controls is an
ongoing process and continues to review the process by which risks are identified and controls
assessed. The Board has taken, and continues to take, measures to improve the internal control
environment as part of the internal audit and operational reviews.
Approved by the Board of Directors
26 September 2007
27