 The Audit Committee currently
comprises two independent
non-executive directors and the
Company's Non-Executive Chairman
Andrew Wood
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Members and qualifications
of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the
Company's two independent non-executive
directors, Andrew Wood as Chairman and
Jan  strand, together with the Company's
Chairman, John Standen. The Committee's
Chairman, Andrew Wood, is a chartered
management accountant with over 15
years experience as Group Finance Director
of FTSE 250 companies, and is considered
to have relevant financial experience.
The biographies of the members of the
Committee are set out on pages 34 and 35.
During 2013 the Audit Committee held
three formal meetings. The meetings are
attended by the Committee members and,
by invitation, the Chief Executive, the Group
Finance Director, the Group Financial
Controller, the Group Tax Manager and
representatives from the Group's external
and internal auditors.
The attendance of each director at these
meetings (and the occasions at which the
Group's external and internal auditors
attended) is shown in the table below:
Attendance table
Meetings Apologies
attended given
Andrew Wood 3-
John Standen 3-
Jan  strand 3-
External auditors 3-
Internal auditors 3-
Terms of reference
The Audit Committee has written terms of
reference which are reviewed annually and
published on the Company's website
(www.lavendongroup.com). 
The Committee's principal responsibilities
are to:
  Monitor and review the integrity of the
Group's annual and interim financial
statements, the accompanying reports to
shareholders, corporate governance
statements and any announcements
related to the Group's financial
performance, including a review of the
significant financial reporting judgements
contained in them.
  Monitor the Group's key areas of risk,
together with the application of policies,
procedures and practices to mitigate
these risks.
  Monitor and review the effectiveness of
the Company's internal audit function.
  Review and make recommendations to
the Board on any issues raised by either
internal or external auditors.
  Review and monitor the external auditors
independence and objectivity and the
effectiveness of the audit process taking
into consideration relevant UK
professional and regulatory requirements.
  Make recommendations to the Board, on
the appointment, re-appointment and
removal of the external and internal auditors
and to approve the remuneration and terms
of engagement of the external auditor.
  Determine and communicate policy to 
the Board relating to procurement of 
non-audit related assignments from the
external auditors.
Activities of the
Audit Committee
At the Audit Committee meetings during
the year, the following matters were
reviewed and discussed:
  The Group's principal accounting policies
to ensure they remain appropriate for
the Group.
  The key accounting considerations and
judgements reflected in the Group's
results for the 2012 financial year and for
the six month period ending 30 June 2013.
  The external auditors' audit strategy
memorandum in advance of their audit
for the year ending 31 December 2013.
  Approval of the going concern
assessment of the Group.
  The report received from the external
auditors regarding their audit in respect
of the year ending 31 December 2012,
including their findings on internal control
and a statement on their independence
and objectivity.
Audit Committee report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lavendon Group plc 2013   39
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Audit Committee report
Continued
  The policy on procurement of non-audit
related services from the external
auditors and the approval of the register
of non-audit assignments undertaken by
the external auditors in the year ending
31 December 2013.
  The reports from internal audit covering
various aspects of the Group's operations,
controls and processes.
  The Group's whistleblowing policy and
procedures to ensure that these
remained appropriate for the Group.
  The levels of authority delegated to
subsidiary operations.
  The Audit Committee's terms of reference.
The Audit Committee confirmed with the
auditors that they had received all
necessary information for completion of
their assignments. At each meeting, the
auditors were asked whether they wished
to bring any matters to the attention of the
Committee without the executive directors
being present.
The Chairman of the Committee regularly
meets with the external and internal
auditors outside the Committee meetings
without management being present.
Significant areas
The significant accounting and audit
matters considered by the Committee and
discussed with the external auditors during
the year and in respect of the preparation
of the 2013 Annual Report were:
Presumed risk of fraud in revenue
recognition and management 
override of controls
The committee considered the presumed
risks of fraud as defined by Auditing
Standards, and after discussion with 
the management team and external
auditors were content that there were 
no issues arising.
Recoverability of Middle East
trade receivables
During the course of 2013 and up until 
the date of publication of this report, 
the Committee has regularly reviewed
management information regarding the
trade receivable balances in the Group's
Middle East business. 
Reports detailing: the amount and
stratification of overdue trade receivable
balances by territory and customer;
cash collection performance; post
balance sheet date receipts; litigation
updates and details of provisions
made; were reviewed and challenged
where appropriate.
The Committee were satisfied that the
carrying value of the Middle East trade
receivables was reasonable and sufficient
provisions had been made for amounts
considered uncollectable.
Classification of exceptional items
The Committee considered the
presentation of the financial statements,
and in particular, the classification of
certain items as exceptional rather than
underlying. Although this is an area
which is inherently judgemental, the
Committee were satisfied with
management's presentation.
Carrying value of goodwill
The Committee reviewed the assumptions
and basis of calculation that management
used in the modelling of future discounted
cash flows that were prepared in support 
of the carrying value of goodwill and
intangible assets.
The Committee were satisfied that the
stated balances of goodwill and intangible
assets were reasonable and supported
by appropriate calculations using
acceptable assumptions.
Whistleblowing procedure
To enable employees to raise matters of
impropriety or concern relating to financial
or other issues, the Committee maintains
an independent reporting procedure that is
available to all employees, through which
these concerns can be raised. The service,
called Speak Up , is available to employees
in all territories. The procedure provides
feedback to the employee regarding the
matters raised and any subsequent 
actions taken. 
External audit
The Group's external auditors are
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . The Audit
Committee is responsible for reviewing the
independence and objectivity of the
external auditors, and ensuring this is
safeguarded notwithstanding any provision
of any other services to the Group.
The Board recognises the importance of
safeguarding auditor objectivity and has
taken the following steps to ensure that
auditor independence is not compromised:
  Each year the Audit Committee carries out
an evaluation of the external auditor as to
its independence from the Group and its
relevant officers in all material respects
and that it is adequately resourced and
technically capable to deliver an objective
audit to shareholders. Based on this
review the Committee recommends 
to the Board each year the continuation,
or removal and replacement, of the
external auditor.
  The Audit Committee has a formal policy
relating to the procurement of non-audit
related work from the Group's external
auditors. This policy has been applied 
in the year and is reviewed annually. 
The policy permits the engagement of
external auditors, without the prior
approval of the Committee, for non-audit
services where the fees will not exceed
30% of the annual audit fee for the Group
(50% in the case of taxation services), and
where the services relate to advice on the
interpretation of accounting regulations,
taxation and treasury services and other
matters that have relevance to the
external audit function. The policy
specifically prohibits engaging external
auditors to make management decisions
or provide management services, acting
as an advocate in litigation, investment
banking services, internal audit services
of a recurring nature, the design and
implementation of financial and risk
management systems and executive
search services. 
  The Audit Committee reviews all fees paid
for audit, together with any non-audit
fees, to assess the likelihood of any
independence issues arising.
40   Lavendon Group plc 2013   The external auditors' report to the 
Board and the Audit Committee
confirming their independence in
accordance with Auditing Standards. 
In addition to the steps taken by the
Board to safeguard auditor objectivity,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP operates 
a five-year rotation policy for 
audit partners.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been in
place as external auditors of the Group for
22 years and the audit contract has not
been put out to tender in the last 10 years.
Their performance is reviewed annually by
the Committee. As part of this year's review
the Committee considered the UK
Corporate Governance Code guidance in
relation to external audit contracts for
companies outside the FTSE 350 and
noted that the Group Audit Partner was
rotated during 2013. The tendering of the
audit contract will be kept under review by
the Committee and will be considered in
the light of any legislation which is
developing in this area.
The Committee has reviewed the
performance of the external auditors for
2013 and concluded that they remain
effective and independent. Consequently
the Committee is recommending to
shareholders that they are re-appointed
for 2014.
Andrew Wood 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
27 February 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lavendon Group plc 2013   41
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements