 16
www.leedpetroleum.com Leed Petroleum PLC 
annual report and accounts 2010
Corporate governance and Directors' remuneration report
Corporate governance
As an AIM quoted company Leed Petroleum PLC is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Corporate Governance Code) 
(formerly referred to as the Combined Code on Corporate Governance prior to 1 July 2010). However, the Directors support high standards of corporate 
governance and confirm that, where practicable, having regard to the Company's current stage of development, the Company complies with the 
main principles of the Corporate Governance Code. The Company has adopted and operates a share dealing code for Directors and senior employees.
The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable financial performance and creation of long-term 
shareholder value. To achieve this, the Board directs and monitors the Group's affairs, assesses risk, sets strategic objectives whilst attempting to 
ensure that all necessary resources are in place to achieve the business objectives, and reviews management's performance. An element of risk is 
central to the activities of oil and natural gas exploration and development and it is the Directors' objective to be aware of the risks, to evaluate 
them and to mitigate them where possible to insure against them where appropriate and cost-effective and to manage any residual risk within 
the financial constraints under which the Company operates.
Directors
The Board comprises a Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors. Biographies of the Directors are presented on 
pages 18 and 19. Robert Alcock is a Senior Non-executive Director as defined by the Corporate Governance Code. A summary of attendance 
by Director follows:
Attendance    Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 
record at     30 June 2010  30 June 2010  30 June 2009 30 June 2009 
Board meetings Director status   Attended  Eligible  Attended  Eligible
Robert Adair Chairman   10 10 5 6
Robert Alcock Non-executive   10 10 6 6
Stephen Fleming Non-executive   10 10 3 3
Ian Shaun Gibbs Non-executive   10 10 5 6
Peter Hirsch Non-executive   10 10 6 6
James Slatten Executive   10 10 6 6
Howard Wilson Executive   10 10 6 6
Audit and Remuneration Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee with formally delegated duties and responsibilities. Robert Alcock 
and Peter Hirsch are members of the Audit Committee. Robert Adair, Stephen Fleming and Peter Hirsch are members of the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Alcock and the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Robert Adair.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent of management; attendance at Committee meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and the external auditors are invited to attend. The external auditors have the right at all times for direct access to the 
Chairman of the Committee and to meet with the Committee without management present. The Committee meets at least twice a year and has 
responsibility for, amongst other things, reviewing the nature and scope of work for auditing the accounts and reviewing the half year and annual 
financial statements before their submission to the Directors. The Committee is provided terms of reference from the external auditors and focuses 
particularly on compliance with accounting standards and financial reporting. It is also responsible for ensuring that an effective system of internal 
controls is maintained. 
The Audit Committee also advises the Board on appointment of external auditors and approves the fees to be paid to the external auditors. 
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual accounts and interim statements remains with the Board. The Board also 
has the overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls, including reviewing the effectiveness thereof. Such system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement of the accounts. 
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year and has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation 
of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors. 
It also oversees the incentive share plan and sets performance conditions in respect of such arrangements. The Committee periodically engages the 
services of external consultants which are independent of the Company to assist them in their duties and did so during the 2010 financial year.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
The Corporate Governance Code states that the Board of Directors of a UK public company should include a balance of Executive and Non-executive 
Directors. Smaller UK public companies (being those that are below the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting year) 
should have at least two independent Non-executive Directors. The Company has four independent Non-executive Directors: Robert Adair,  17
Leed Petroleum PLC 
annual report and accounts 2010
www.leedpetroleum.com
Robert Alcock, Peter Hirsch and Ian Shaun Gibbs. Notwithstanding all Non-executive Directors' eligibility to participate in the Company's 
incentive share plan and purchase stock in the Company, as at the date of this report the Board considers the four Non-executive Directors 
to be independent. Stephen Fleming is not an independent Non-executive Director due to his past business relationships with IB Daiwa 
Corporation and Asia Debt Management Galleus Fund Limited. The Corporate Governance Code further provides that a majority of 
Non-executive Directors should be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company continues to comply with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code so far as possible 
having regard to the size and current state of development of the Company.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Group Chairman who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed 
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition, the Chairman ensures that Directors receive an appropriate induction 
to the Group and that the Board has access to appropriate knowledge development as required. If necessary, the Chairman will arrange for 
seminars to be held on specific topics for the Board, as done in 2010 regarding Changes to the UK Combined Code of Corporate Governance .
The Board has procedures in place which are intended to ensure that if any Director has, or is perceived to have, a conflict of interest in relation 
to his Directorship of the Group, or any transaction involving Leed, he will abstain from voting on that matter or counting towards a quorum 
at a Board meeting in relation to that matter.
Relationship with former Parent Company and successor
Prior to 1 February 2010, IB Daiwa Corporation (IBD ) through its wholly owned subsidiary, Asia Special Situations GJP1 Limited (ASSGJP1), 
held 28.65% of the issued share capital of Leed, which gave IBD significant influence over the Company's management and affairs. For example, 
IBD could block any shareholder action that must be passed by a special resolution requiring a 75% shareholder vote. Effective 1 February 2010, 
IBD transferred all of its ownership in ASSGJP1 to ADM Galleus Fund Limited (ADM) in settlement of certain claims, liabilities and obligations. 
At 30 June 2010, ADM through its wholly owned subsidiary, ASSGJP1, owns 28.65% of the currently issued share capital (193,695,929 total shares) 
of Leed Petroleum PLC. Stephen Fleming, a Non-executive Director of the Company, served as an executive director of IBD until 26 February 2010 
and is a former employee of ADM. 
Investor relations
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority. The Company keeps its institutional shareholders up to date with its business 
objectives and obtains their views on the Company by means of investor presentations. Additionally, the Company is ready to respond 
appropriately to particular issues or questions that may be raised by investors through the contact email address, info@leedpetroleum.com, 
displayed in the investor centre section of the Company's website, www.leedpetroleum.com.
The Company's website is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about the Company including the AIM Admission Document, 
circulars sent to shareholders, share capital information, Company announcements and the annual report and financial statements.
Directors' remuneration
Details of the emoluments for each Director for the periods are presented below. There were no bonuses paid or accrued for during financial year 
2010 and financial year 2009. 
       Year ended Year ended 
       30 June 2010  30 June 2009 
Director       $000  $000
Robert Adair      110 113
Robert Alcock      39 39
Stephen Fleming      19 12
Ian Shaun Gibbs      19 18
Peter Hirsch      28 29
Seiki Takahashi        7
James Slatten      422 397
Howard Wilson      526 485
Total      1,163 1,100
The terms of the Directors' shareholdings and awards granted under the incentive share plan (stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units) 
are discussed in the Report of the Directors, included with the accounts, and at Note 21 Employees, Director and auditor remuneration  of the 
accounts. During the periods presented, the Directors did not sell any shares of the Company nor exercise any rights to Company stock.