 corporate governance
Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the
Provisions of the Combined Code
The company has been in full compliance with the provi-
sions set out in the Revised Combined Code throughout
the year except as noted below.
The company did not comply with provision B.2.1 of the
code as the chief executive was a member of the remu-
neration committee throughout the year. Given the various
responsibilities of the directors, the Board consider it
appropriate for the chief executive to be a member of the
remuneration committee.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to con-
tinue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board comprised of Mr B C Clark, non-executive
chairman and senior independent director, and
Mr C J Powles, independent non-executive director.
Mr M J Hammond (chief executive) and Mr J G Mitchell
served as executive directors throughout the year.
Mr E G Williams was appointed an executive director on
14 September 2004. Mr G O Mulvaney served as an exec-
utive director up until the date of his resignation on 12
August 2004. Mr T F C Cooper served as an executive
director up until 31 October 2004.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the prop-
er management of the Group. It met once a month, set-
ting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing trading per-
formance, ensuring adequate funding, examining develop-
ment possibilities and formulating policy on key issues.
Within the strategies and policies set by the Board the
operation of the business is delegated to management.
A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the
accounts is set out on page 11.
The Board has appointed the following committees to deal
with specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
Audit Committee
The audit committee comprised of Mr B C Clark (chairman
of the committee) and Mr C J Powles, independent
non-executive directors. It received and reviewed reports
from management and the Group's auditors relating to the
annual accounts and the accounting and internal control
systems in use throughout the Group. The audit committee
considered the need for a separate internal audit depart-
ment but due to the size of the company and the proce-
dures in place to monitor both trading performance and
internal controls, it was concluded the costs of a separate
internal department would outweigh the benefits.
Considering the auditors' knowledge of the business, the
Board considered it appropriate for them to carry out rou-
tine taxation services for the company. The committee
reviews procedures of all audit services and permitted
non-audit services to ensure the independence of the audi-
tor is not impaired. The committee has direct access to
the auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The remuneration committee comprised of Mr B C Clark
(chairman of the committee) and Mr C J Powles, independ-
ent non-executive directors, together with the chief execu-
tive. The remuneration committee was responsible for
determining the service contract terms, remuneration and
other benefits for the executive directors including per-
formance-related bonus schemes. The committee also
acts for the purposes of the Litho Supplies Plc 2004 EMI
Share Option Scheme and 1993 Savings Related Share
Option Scheme.
The remuneration of the independent non-executive director
was established by the Board. The remuneration committee
has responsibility for setting the remuneration of the chair-
man although he does not participate in this decision.
Further details of the company's policies on remuneration
and service contracts are given in the report on directors'
remuneration on pages 8 to 10.
Nomination Committee
The nomination committee comprised of Mr B C Clark
(chairman of the committee) and Mr C J Powles, independ-
ent non-executive directors, together with the chief execu-
tive. The nomination committee leads the process for
Board appointments and makes recommendations to the
Board. The committee evaluates the balance of skills,
knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of the
evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabili-
ties required for a particular appointment.
Evaluation of the Board and its Committees
The Board analyses and evaluates its own performance
and the workings of its committees. The Board considered
that the appropriate duties were adequately performed by
both the Board and its committees during the year. The
terms of reference of the remuneration, nomination and
audit committees are available on request from the compa-
ny secretary at the registered office. The Board does not
consider it appropriate to publish this information on the
company website.
Evaluation of Individual Directors
The chairman's performance is evaluated by the independ-
6 ent non-executive director and the executive directors
throughout the year and prior to the renewal of his con-
tract.
The performance of the independent non-executive direc-
tor is evaluated by the chairman and the executive direc-
tors throughout the year and prior to the renewal of his
contract.
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet
without the executive directors present in order to discuss
the business and the performance of the individual directors.
The performance of the executive directors is evaluated
throughout the year in relation to the responsibilities
they have been allocated and their overall contribution
to the Board.
The company arranges appropriate Directors and Officer
insurance cover for the non-executive directors, executive
directors, company secretary and other officers of the Group.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings
Board meetings held during the year ended 31 December
2004 - 12.
Remuneration committee meetings held during the year
ended 31 December 2004 - 6.
Nomination committee meeting held during the year ended
31 December 2004 - 1.
Audit committee meeting held during the year ended
31 December 2004 - 1.
Board Committees
Meetings Remuneration Nomination Audit
Mr B C Clark 12 6 1 1
Mr C J Powles 12 6 1 1
Mr M J Hammond 11 6 1 1*
Mr J G Mitchell 12 - - 1*
Mr E G Williams 3 - - -
Mr G O Mulvaney 8 - - -
Mr T F C Cooper 8 - - -
*Mr Hammond and Mr Mitchell attended part of the audit
committee by invitation from the committee.
Mr G O Mulvaney and Mr T F C Cooper did not attend the
Board meetings in September and October 2004.
In the opinion of the non-executive and executive directors
Mr B C Clark and Mr C J Powles were independent at their
date of appointment and have continued to remain inde-
pendent.
Mr B C Clark and Mr C J Powles both consider they have
sufficient time to undertake their duties and responsibilities
on the Litho Supplies Plc Board and its committees taking
into consideration their other commitments.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Chairman's Statement includes a review of the busi-
ness and future developments. There is regular dialogue
with institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an opportu-
nity to communicate with private and institutional investors
7
and welcomes their participation. The chairman ensures
that the chairmen of the audit and remuneration commit-
tees are available at Annual General Meetings to answer
questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2005 can be found in
the Notice of the Meeting on page 31.
Internal Control 
The Board has overall responsibility for Litho Supplies' sys-
tem of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness,
whilst the role of management is to implement Board poli-
cies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement
of the Group's business objectives. In pursuing these
objectives, internal control can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses
or fraud.
During the year an internal control review was carried out
covering all controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management involving the
senior management from all areas of the Group's business.
This review is part of a continuous process that has been
established for identifying, evaluating and managing the
Group's business risks. The process is reviewed by the
Board and the audit committee and discussed with the
external auditors. The company has complied with the
Combined Code provisions on internal control in accor-
dance with the Turnbull guidance notes issued for directors
in September 1999.
The key procedures which the directors have established
with a view to providing effective internal control are as fol-
lows:
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there
is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision
by the Board. Each executive director has been given
responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the
Group. The communication includes the delegation of
authority and other control procedures, together with
appropriate accounting policies.
Each year the Board approves the plan and other perform-
ance targets key to the success of the business, the com-
ponents of which form the financial and operating objec-
tives for the individual units within the Group. Performance
against these targets is reported and monitored monthly.
The Group appoints experienced and professional staff of
the necessary calibre, both through promotion and
recruitment, to fulfil their allotted responsibilities. The Group
also carries out comprehensive training programmes for staff.