 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2014
16
Governance
Corporate governance report
For the year ended 31 March 2014
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the 
Group, its strategy and long-term objectives, having regard 
to the interests of shareholders and the protection and 
enhancement of shareholder value. The Board ensures that 
the necessary financial and other resources are made available 
to enable those objectives to be met, and that objectives are 
only set that are consistent with the anticipated financial and 
other resources. It has a schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval including, but not limited to, decisions on strategy 
and risk management, approval of budgets, acquisitions and 
disposals, major capital expenditure, legal and insurance issues, 
Board structure and the appointment of advisers. In some 
areas responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board 
or to the Executive within clearly defined terms of reference.
Once the strategic and financial objectives of the Company 
have been agreed with and set by the Board it is the role of 
the Chief Executive and the Executive team to ensure that 
through the day-to-day management of the Group's 
business they are achieved.
All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at 
the next general meeting following appointment to the 
Board and to annual re-election. The Executive Directors 
have service contracts, which are terminable upon periods 
between three and twelve months' notice.
The names of the current Directors together with their 
biographical details are set out in the About us  page 
within the Lombard Risk website. 
The Directors are given access to independent professional 
advice at the Group's expense, when the Directors deem it is 
necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The Board meets at least six times a year and the Audit 
Committee and Remuneration Committee normally meet on 
a formal basis twice a year. 
Note from the Chairman
 
Dear Shareholder,
The Board is committed to high standards of integrity 
and corporate governance and consistently seeks to 
apply the principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code ) as judged appropriate 
by the Board for an AIM listed company.
We do not comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. However, we have reported on our corporate 
governance arrangements by drawing upon best 
practice available, including those components of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code we consider to be 
relevant to the company and best practice.
We recognise the importance of diversity on the Board and 
during the year recruited two independent Non-executive 
Directors, Steve Rogers and John McCormick, with 
business backgrounds that supplement the remaining 
members of the Board. Brian Crowe retired from the 
Board as a Non-executive Director in July 2013 after 
serving since 2004.
In February 2014, Paul Tuson, Group CFO, resigned and 
left the Company in May 2014. The Board is actively 
seeking a suitable replacement.
The Company seeks to ensure it has an appropriate 
balance of Executive and Non-executive elements on 
its Board.
Philip Crawford
Chairman
12 May 2014
Executive Director
Non-executive Director
Board membership
Philip Crawford 
(Chairman)
Steve Rogers
(Non-executive 
Director)
John Wisbey 
(Chief Executive 
Officer)
John McCormick
(Non-executive 
Director)
Nick Davies
(Chief 
Technology 
Officer)
Audit Committee
Philip Crawford John McCormick 
(Committee 
Chairman)
Remuneration Committee
Philip Crawford 
(Committee 
Chairman)
Steve Rogers
John McCormick Steve Rogers
_1_LOM_ar14_Back.indd   1 16/06/2014   10:44:53 Lombard Risk Management plc www.lombardrisk.com
17
Chairman's statement Overview Strategic report Financial statements Governance
17
The Board receives appropriate and timely information prior 
to each meeting, with a formal agenda and Board and 
committee papers being distributed before meetings take 
place. Any Director may challenge Group proposals and 
decisions are taken democratically after discussion. Any 
Director who feels that any concern remains unresolved after 
discussion may ask for that concern to be noted in the 
minutes of the meeting. Any specific actions arising from 
such meetings are agreed by the Board and then followed 
up by management. 
The Group maintains, for its Directors and officers, liability 
insurance for any claims against them in that capacity.
The Group has effective procedures in place to deal with 
conflicts of interest. The Board is aware of other 
commitments of its Directors and changes to these 
commitments are reported to the Board.
A summary of the Board's main work in the year ended 
31 March 2014 includes:
    approving a growth strategy including a fundraising to 
ensure that the Group was able to maximise the 
opportunity for the European Banking Authority's COREP 
and related projects;
    restructure of Americas business;
    evaluation of external growth opportunities;
    financial overview; and
    corporate governance and compliance including selection 
of additional board members.
While the Board seeks to operate collaboratively between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors in order to ensure 
the effective operation of the Board, there is a clear division 
between the formal responsibilities of the Directors as set 
out below.
Directors' roles
The Chairman's main role is to:
    ensure good corporate governance;
    lead the Board, ensuring the effectiveness of the Board 
in all aspects of its role;
    ensure effective communication with shareholders; and
    set the agenda for Board meetings in conjunction with the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, and 
ensure that all Directors are encouraged to participate fully 
in the activities and decision-making process of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer's main role is to:
    lead the Company and provide the key recommendations 
to the board on corporate strategy;
    run the Company on a day-to-day basis;
    provide strategic direction to the Company's 
management team;
    set objectives for and review the performance of the 
Company's management team;
    play a key role in external client, partner and shareholder 
relationships;
    be responsible, along with the Executive team, for 
implementing the decisions of the Board and its 
committees; and
    be the Company spokesperson, communicating with 
external audiences, such as investors, analysts and 
the media.
Board length of service (years)
Philip Crawford
John Wisbey
John McCormick
Nick Davies
Steve Rogers
0 5 10 15 20 25
_1_LOM_ar14_Back.indd   2 16/06/2014   10:44:53 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2014
18
Governance
Corporate governance report continued
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Directors' roles continued
The Non-executive Directors' main role is to:
    challenge the opinions of the Executive Directors, provide 
fresh insight in terms of strategic direction and bring their 
diverse experience and expertise to the benefit of the 
leadership of the Group;
    play a full part in ensuring good corporate governance;
    assess the performance of the Chairman;
    provide a sounding board for the Chairman and serve 
as an intermediary for the other Directors as necessary;
    scrutinise the performance of the Executive Directors 
in terms of meeting agreed goals and objectives;
    be available to shareholders if they have concerns which 
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed 
to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate; 
    monitor the reporting of performance;
    assist the Executive Directors with high level external 
contacts where this is possible; and
    ensure that the financial information, controls and systems 
of risk management within the Group are robust and 
defensible.
Internal controls
The Directors are responsible for the systems of internal 
control. Although no system of internal control can provide 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the 
Group's systems are designed to provide the Directors with 
reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a 
timely basis and dealt with appropriately. The Board 
considers that there have been no substantial weaknesses in 
internal financial controls resulting in any material losses, 
contingencies or uncertainties and thus disclosable in the 
accounts. The Board has considered the need for an internal 
audit function and has concluded that there is no current 
need for such a function within the Company.
Accounting policies
The Board considers the appropriateness of its accounting 
policies on an annual basis. The Board believes that its 
accounting policies and estimation techniques are 
appropriate, in particular in relation to income recognition, 
research and development and deferred expenses.
Information
Board reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in 
advance of the relevant Board or committee meeting. These 
papers are supplemented by information specifically requested 
by the Directors from time to time. Minutes of Board and 
committee meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Non-executive Directors receive monthly management 
accounts and regular management reports and information 
which enable them to scrutinise the Group's and 
management's performance against agreed objectives.
Shareholder relations and Annual General Meeting 
(AGM )
The Company recognises the importance of dialogue with all 
of its shareholders. The AGM is an opportunity to communicate 
with institutional and other shareholders. The outcome 
of the voting on AGM resolutions is disclosed by means 
of an announcement on the London Stock Exchange.
Additional information is supplied through the circulation 
of the interim report and the annual report and accounts. 
Lombard Risk Management plc maintains up-to-date information 
on the investor section of its website, www.lombardrisk.com.
Every shareholder receives a full annual report after each 
year end and has access to an interim report online after 
each half year end. Care is taken to ensure that any price 
sensitive information is released to all its shareholders, 
institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with 
London Stock Exchange requirements.
Board committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board chaired by 
John McCormick and also comprises Philip Crawford and 
Steve Rogers. The Report of the Audit Committee can be 
found on page 21.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board 
chaired by Philip Crawford and also comprises John 
McCormick and Steve Rogers. The Report of the 
Remuneration Committee can be found on page 22.
Nominations Committee
The Directors do not consider that, given the size of the 
Board, it is appropriate at this stage to have a Nomination 
Committee. However, this will be kept under regular review 
by the Board.
Risk Committee
The Directors plan to form a Risk Committee during 2014 with 
membership from both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
_1_LOM_ar14_Back.indd   3 16/06/2014   10:44:53