 LONDON SECURITY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Listing Rules applicable to the Company contain the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice
(the Combined Code ).
The purpose of this statement is to describe the Company's approach to corporate governance and, in particular to
explain, review and report upon the effectiveness of how the Company has applied the principles set out in section 1
of the Combined Code.
Composition
The Board is composed of a mixture of Executive and Non-Executive members in order to provide the division
of responsibilities and balance which are considered appropriate to the Company's individual circumstances.
The Company is 90% owned by British Security Group Limited (BSG ), which is itself controlled by the Chairman
of the Company, J.G. Murray. In the absence of a substantial third party shareholder, it is considered unnecessary
and, to a large degree unrealistic, to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive. The majority of the
Executive Directors are connected with BSG (Messrs J.G. Murray, J-J. Murray, J-C. Pillois and E. Sebag) and are
therefore not considered to be independent as required by the Combined Code.
To limit the effect of the majority shareholder, the Company and BSG's subsidiary company, EOI Fire SARL (EOI )
entered into a relationship agreement dated 10 December 1999 in which EOI has provided certain assurances
to the Company with regard to its relationship with the Company. The agreement confirms that the business
and affairs of the Company shall be managed by the Board in accordance with the Company's Memorandum
and Articles of Association and with applicable laws and all relevant statutory provisions for the benefit of the
shareholders as a whole. Any transactions or other relationships between any member of the EOI Group and the
Company would be at arm's length and on a normal commercial basis. The above Directors declare their interest
and take no part in decisions where appropriate.
H. Shouler and M. Gailer are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
H. Shouler is the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director.
Due to the small size of the Board and close involvement of the majority shareholder, the Directors have no current
intentions to appoint a third Non-Executive Director.
Operation
Due to the relatively small size of the Company and the nature of its businesses, the Executive Directors are more
directly involved in the day to day activities than would be the case in a larger more diversified organisation.
The full Board meets regularly to review current trading and to make key operational and strategic decisions
and has extensive access to detailed information in addition to the monthly management accounts and other
reports that are circulated on a monthly basis. A schedule is maintained of matters specifically reserved for
decision by the full Board, which includes matters of business strategy, business acquisitions, business disposals,
approval of budgets and approval of financial statements. Interim meetings or appropriate sub-committees are
established when decisions at full Board level are required between scheduled meetings.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that all
applicable procedures and regulations are complied with. Each Director has the facility for independent
professional advice in connection with his duties at the Company's expense.
12 LONDON SECURITY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
Board Committees
The Board maintains two standing committees comprising Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Both committees
have written constitutions and terms of reference.
The remuneration committee comprises H. Shouler, M. Gailer and J-J. Murray. The committee is chaired by
H. Shouler. The committee reviews the performance of Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of
their remuneration and the basis of their service agreements with due regard to the interests of the shareholders.
No Director is permitted to participate in decisions concerning his own remuneration.
Details of Directors' remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 15.
The audit committee currently comprises H. Shouler, M. Gailer, J-J. Murray and J-C. Pillois. H. Shouler and
M. Gailer are independent of management and BSG. The committee is chaired by H. Shouler. The audit committee
is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Company is properly monitored, controlled and
reported on. It meets regularly and meets the auditors once a year.
The audit committee considers the need to introduce an internal audit function each year. After taking into
consideration the current size and complexity of the Group, the committee believes that it would not be cost
effective to have an internal audit function and the committee feels that sufficient comfort is obtained through
the scope and quality of management's ongoing monitoring of risks.
Due to the small size of the Board, the Directors consider that a nomination committee need not be established.
Appointment and Removal of Board Members
The appointment of Directors involves selection by the full Board and Directors so appointed must be re-elected
at the following Annual General Meeting. All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and at least one third
of Directors must offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting. The rotation is structured so that
all Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The removal of Board members, and the Company Secretary, is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Relations with Shareholders
The relationship between the Company and its majority shareholder is discussed on page 12.
The Company monitors its share register to ensure that dialogue is entered into with other shareholders as
appropriate. All proxy votes are counted and the results are announced in respect of each resolution at the
Annual General Meeting.
The Company's last Annual General Meeting was conducted in accordance with the Combined Code.
Internal Control
The Combined Code introduced a new requirement that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal controls. This extended the existing requirement in respect of internal financial controls to cover
all controls.
As a Company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM ), the Company is not required to adhere to the
Combined Code and all of the disclosures made in this Report are voluntary. In light of this fact the Directors have
considered the Combined Code requirement to review and report upon the effectiveness of the Group's system of
internal controls and have concluded that the benefits gained in meeting this requirement are outweighed by the
costs involved. The Directors have therefore continued to report upon internal financial controls only in accordance
with the ICAEW's guidance Internal Control and Financial Reporting  (the Rutteman guidance), and to report the
non-compliance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  (the Turnbull guidance).
13 LONDON SECURITY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Internal Control (continued)
Key elements of the Group's system of internal financial controls are as follows:
 Control environment - the Directors have put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. This is reinforced by the direct supervision of the Executive Directors
supported by appropriate policy statements.
 Risk management - the Executive Directors are responsible for identifying risks facing the business and for
putting in place procedures to mitigate and monitor risks. Risks are assessed and monitored at Board level
on an ongoing basis, as well as during the annual business planning process.
 Information systems - the Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting. The annual budget is
approved by the Board. Actual results and variances compared with the budget are reported to the Board
monthly, supported by detailed management commentaries. Revised forecasts for the period are prepared and
reported to the Board each quarter.
 Control procedures - policies and procedures manuals are maintained at all significant business locations.
In particular, there are clearly defined policies for capital expenditure including appropriate authorisation
levels. Larger capital projects and major investments and divestment decisions require Board approval.
 Monitoring systems - internal controls are monitored by management review.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls. 
With the exception of certain matters set out in this Report in relation to the appointment of a separate Chairman
and Chief Executive, the independence of Directors, the requirement to have written Directors' service contracts,
the absence of a nomination committee enabling a formal procedure for the appointment of new Directors, having
only two Non-Executive Directors, the appointment of an Executive Director to the remuneration committee and two
Executive Directors to the audit committee, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of
section 1 of the Combined Code.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, that reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2002 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
By order of the Board
R. Pollard
Company Secretary
29 April 2003
14