 15
LONDON SECURITY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
As a Company whose securities are traded on the Alternative Investment Market ( AIM ), the Company is not required to adhere to the 
provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance and all of the disclosures made in this report are voluntary.
The purpose of this voluntary statement is to describe the Company's approach to corporate governance and, in particular, to explain, 
review and report upon the effectiveness of how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code 
issued in July 2003 which are commensurate with its size.
COMPOSITION
The Board is composed of a mixture of Executive and Non-Executive members in order to provide the division of responsibilities 
and balance which are considered appropriate to the Company's individual circumstances.
The Company is 80% owned by EOI Fire SARL (EOI ) which is itself controlled by the Chairman of the Company, J.G. Murray. In the 
absence of a substantial third party shareholder, it is considered unnecessary and, to a large degree unrealistic, to separate the 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive. All the Executive Directors are connected with EOI as are M-C. Leon, J-J. Murray and 
J. Simmonds (Non-Executive Directors) and are therefore not considered to be independent as required by the Combined Code.
T o limit the effect of the majority shareholder, the Company and EOI, entered into a relationship agreement dated 10 December 1999 
in which EOI has provided certain assurances to the Company with regard to its relationship with the Company. The agreement confirms 
that the business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by the Board in accordance with the Company's Memorandum and 
Articles of Association and with applicable laws and all relevant statutory provisions for the benefit of the shareholders as a whole. 
Any transactions or other relationships between any member of the EOI Group and the Company would be at arm's length and 
on a normal commercial basis. The above Directors declare their interest and take no part in decisions where appropriate.
H. Shouler and M. Gailer are considered to be Independent Non-Executive Directors. H. Shouler is the recognised Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director.
Due to the small size of the Board and close involvement of the majority shareholder, the Directors have no current intentions to appoint 
a third Independent Non-Executive Director.
OPERATIONS
Due to the relatively small size of the Company and the nature of its businesses, the Executive Directors are more directly involved 
in the day-to-day activities than would be the case in a larger more diversified organisation.
The full Board meets regularly to review current trading and to make key operational and strategic decisions and has extensive 
access to detailed information in addition to the monthly management accounts and other reports that are circulated on a monthly 
basis. A schedule is maintained of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board, which includes matters of business 
strategy, business acquisitions, business disposals, approval of budgets and approval of financial statements. Interim meetings 
or appropriate sub-committees are established when decisions at full Board level are required between scheduled meetings.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that all applicable procedures and 
regulations are complied with. Each Director has the right to take independent professional advice in connection with his or her duties 
at the Company's expense.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
_0_LON_ar06_back.indd   4 08/05/2007   11:49:21 16
LONDON SECURITY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board maintains two standing committees comprising Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Both committees have written 
constitutions and terms of reference.
The remuneration committee comprises H. Shouler, M. Gailer and J-J. Murray. The committee is chaired by H. Shouler. The remuneration 
committee reviews the performance of Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and the basis of their 
service agreements with due regard to the interests of the shareholders. No Director is permitted to participate in decisions concerning 
his own remuneration.
Details of Directors' remuneration are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 18.
The audit committee currently comprises H. Shouler, M. Gailer, J-J. Murray and J-C. Pillois. H. Shouler and M. Gailer are independent 
of management and EOI Fire SARL. The committee is chaired by H. Shouler. The audit committee is responsible for ensuring that the 
financial performance of the Company is properly monitored, controlled and reported on. It meets regularly and meets the auditors 
twice a year.
The audit committee considers the need to introduce an internal audit function each year. After taking into consideration the current 
size and complexity of the Group, the committee believes that it would not be cost effective to have an internal audit function and the 
committee feels that sufficient comfort is obtained through the scope and quality of management's ongoing monitoring of risks.
Due to the small size of the Board, the Directors consider that a nomination committee need not be established.
APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBERS
The appointment of Directors involves selection by the full Board and Directors so appointed must be re-elected at the following Annual 
General Meeting. All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and at least one third of Directors must offer themselves for re-election 
at each Annual General Meeting. The rotation is structured so that all Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The removal of Board members, and the Company Secretary, is a matter for the Board as a whole.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The relationship between the Company and its majority shareholder is discussed on page 15.
The Company monitors its share register to ensure that dialogue is entered into with other shareholders as appropriate. All proxy votes 
are counted and the results are announced in respect of each resolution at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company's last Annual General Meeting was conducted in accordance with the Combined Code.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL
The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. 
This extended the existing requirement in respect of internal financial controls to cover all controls.
The Directors have considered the Combined Code requirement to review and report upon the effectiveness of the Group's system 
of internal controls and have concluded that the benefits gained in meeting this requirement are outweighed by the costs involved. 
The Directors have therefore continued to report upon internal financial controls only in accordance with the ICAEW's guidance 
Internal Control and Financial Reporting  (the Rutteman guidance), and to report non-compliance with Internal Control: Guidance 
for Directors on the Combined Code  (the Turnbull guidance). Key elements of the Group's system of internal financial controls are 
as follows:
   Control environment - the Directors have put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility 
and delegation of authority. This is reinforced by the direct supervision of the Executive Directors supported by appropriate 
policy statements.
   Risk management - the Executive Directors are responsible for identifying risks facing the business and for putting in place 
procedures to mitigate and monitor risks. Risks are assessed and monitored at Board level on an ongoing basis, as well as 
during the annual business planning process.
   Information systems - the Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting. The annual budget is approved by the Board. 
Actual results and variances compared with the budget are reported to the Board monthly, supported by detailed management 
commentaries. Revised forecasts for the period are prepared and reported to the Board each quarter.
   Control procedures - policies and procedures manuals are maintained at all significant business locations. In particular, there 
are clearly defined policies for capital expenditure including appropriate authorisation levels. Larger capital projects and major 
investments and divestment decisions require Board approval.
   Monitoring systems - internal controls are monitored by management review.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
_0_LON_ar06_back.indd   5 08/05/2007   11:49:22 17
LONDON SECURITY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL CONTINUED
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls.
With the exception of certain matters set out in this Report in relation to the appointment of a separate Chairman and Chief Executive, 
the independence of Directors, the requirement to have written Directors' service contracts, the absence of a nomination committee 
enabling a formal procedure for the appointment of new Directors, having only two independent Non-Executive Directors, the appointment 
of an Executive Director to the remuneration committee and two Executive Directors to the audit committee, the Board considers that 
it has complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in July 2003.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, that reasonable and prudent 
judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 and that 
applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These financial statements will be published on the Company's website, in addition to the paper version posted to shareholders. 
The maintenance and integrity of the London Security plc website is the responsibility of the Directors. The work carried out by the 
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
R. POLLARD
Company Secretary
27 April 2007
_0_LON_ar06_back.indd   6 08/05/2007   11:49:22