 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 09
Corporate Governance
Combined Code
In June 1998 The Committee on Corporate Governance,
chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel, published the Combined
Code containing Principles of Good Governance and a
Code of Best Practice.
Each UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange is
required to provide in its annual report and accounts a
narrative statement of how it has applied the Principles
affecting companies set out in the Combined Code with
sufficient explanation enabling its shareholders to
evaluate how the Principles have been applied.
The Principles cover four subject areas, namely directors,
directors' remuneration, relations with shareholders
and accountability and audit.
The Principles are amplified by a set of 45 provisions with
which the Company complies and complied throughout
the year.
With the exception of the Principles relating to directors'
remuneration (which are covered in the Directors' Report
on Remuneration) the Board has applied the Principles as
follows:-
Directors
The Company is led and controlled by the Board of
Directors which has nine members, four of whom are
non-Executive. The Board meets regularly, at least every
other month, but more frequently if necessary, and once a
year (twice a year from 2003) in South Africa and receives
regular and timely information in a form and of a quality
to enable it to discharge its duties. In addition certain
Directors are also directors of the principal operating
subsidiaries. The Board retains full responsibility for the
direction and control of the Company and no strategic
powers were delegated to any committee in the year 
under review. All Directors have access to the services of
the Company Secretary and are entitled to take
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the
Company's expense.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly
separated. All Directors have equal responsibilities as
directors and bring an independent judgement to bear on
key issues, but the Board has been structured with the
Executive Directors having responsibility for running the
Company's business and the non-Executive Directors, all
of whom are independent of management, bringing
experience from other fields. This results in no one
individual or group of individuals being able to dominate
the Board's decision taking. In addition, Sir Alastair
Morton, is designated as the Senior Independent Director
to whom concerns can be conveyed in addition to the
Chairman.
To permit a formal and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new Directors to the Board, the Board has
a Nomination Committee currently comprising 
Mr J R B Phillimore (Chairman) and Mr P C Godsoe. 
Its function is to review on an ongoing basis and at least
annually the membership of the Board and recommend 
to the Board any proposed changes, be they executive or
non-executive.
All Directors submit themselves to shareholders for 
re-election at least every three years.
Relations with shareholders
The Principles encourage a dialogue with institutional
shareholders based on the mutual understanding of
objectives. The Directors have a regular dialogue with
institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in
the interests of shareholders generally. The Company also
has a website containing up-to-date information.
The Principles encourage boards to use the Annual
General Meeting to communicate with private investors
and to encourage their participation. The Board has
followed this particular Principle for a great number of
years.
Accountability and Audit
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the
Group and of the profit or loss for that period. In
preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have
been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Group will continue in business. 10 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Corporate Governance
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Board's objective is to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company's position
and prospects, particularly in the annual review and
interim report.
In 1993 the Board established an Audit Committee which
now comprises Sir Alastair Morton (Chairman), 
Sir John Craven and Mr J R B Phillimore. The Committee
will meet at least four times a year, twice in South Africa,
and the Finance Director and the external and internal
auditors are invited to attend as appropriate. The principal
objectives of the Committee are to review the annual and
half yearly financial statements prior to their submission
to the Board; to review accounting policies; to receive
reports from the Group's internal auditors who monitor
the effectiveness of business and financial controls; to
receive reports from the internal auditors on internal
controls and to review with management and the external
auditors the effectiveness of internal controls; to review
the scope and results of the external audit and its cost
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the
auditors; to ensure compliance by the Group with the
principles of the Combined Code relating to Accountability
and Audit; and to receive reports from the Risk
Committee on the effective management of the major
risks to which the business is exposed on a day to day basis.
The Combined Code requires a report that the business is
a going concern and a report that the Directors have
reviewed the system of internal control which they are
required to maintain in order to safeguard shareholders'
investment and the Company's assets.
Going Concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements. The Directors have satisfied themselves that
the Group is in a sound financial position and that
sufficient borrowing facilities will be available to meet the
Group's foreseeable cash requirements.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Company has complied with the Combined Code
provisions on internal control.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness whilst the role of management is to
implement Board policies on risk and control. The system
of internal control is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the business
objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal controls
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company
which has been in place for the year under review and up
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The processes used by the Board to review the
effectiveness of the system of internal control include the
following. During the year:
(i) The Audit Committee
-reviews the external and internal audit work plans;
-considers reports from management, internal and
external audit on the system of internal control and
any material control weaknesses; and
-discusses with management the actions taken on
problem areas identified by Board members or in
the internal/external audit reports.
(ii) The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the
risk management process and significant risk issues
are referred to the Board for consideration.
(iii) The Risk Committee and The Lonmin Platinum
Safety, Health and Environment Committee meet on
a regular basis.
(iv) The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the
outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the
Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit
Committee meetings.
(v) The Risk Committee reviews the role of insurance in
managing risks across the Group. 
(vi) The Group's management operates a risk
management process which identifies the key risks
facing each business and reports through the Risk
Committee to the Audit Committee on how these Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 11
risks are being managed. Lonmin Platinum and the
Group produce a risk register which identifies their
key risks, the probability of those risks occurring,
their impact if they do occur and the actions being
taken to manage those risks to the desired level. 
The risk registers are incorporated into Combined
Assurance Plans which allocate responsibility for
managing risk to management. These risks are
discussed by the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis
and regular monitoring reports are received to update
it on progress. 
The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the
following:
-The outcome of letters of assurance which are
completed by management confirming compliance
throughout the year with the Group's policies,
procedures, risk management processes and other
matters;
- Reports on risk and internal control from
management, the internal and external auditors,
and the Combined Assurance Plan, including
schedules of significant risks; and
-Regular reports on any major problems that have
occurred during the year and how the risks have
changed over the period under review.
Social, Environmental and Ethical (SEE) Risks
The Group is committed to high ethical standards so that
business can be conducted honestly, fairly and legally. 
To this end the Risk Committee and the Lonmin Platinum
Safety, Health and Environment Committee take regular
account of the significance of SEE matters to the business
of the Group and have identified and assessed the
significant risks to the Group's short and long term value
arising from SEE matters, as well as the opportunities to
enhance value that may arise from dealing with these
issues. The Committees have received adequate
information as part of this overall risk review process to
make this assessment. SEE risks are managed no
differently from other risks and the Group's policies and
procedures for managing all risks are fully complied with
on an ongoing basis. The Corporate Accountability
Statement on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review
contains further information on the subject.