 The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and to applying the Principles of Good Governance
set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the Code ). Except as detailed below
the Company has been in full compliance with the Code throughout the year.
The following paragraphs indicate how the Company has applied the principles of the Code.
Board of Directors During the year, the non-executive directorate was reinforced by the appointment of Steve Hannam on
1 September 2002 and by the appointment of Chris Davies on 1 November 2002. Paul Forman was appointed as a director and as Group
Chief Executive on 30 September 2002 following the resignation of Philip Reeder on 14 June 2002. The Board currently comprises two
executive and five non-executive directors. As announced on 24 October 2002, Rex Clark will retire as a director following the annual
general meeting on 30 April 2003. The non-executive directors are not employees of the Group and the Board considers that all non-
executive directors are independent of management and free from any business or other relationships which could materially interfere
with the exercise of their judgement. 
Following Mr Reeder's resignation as Group Chief Executive, the non-executive Chairman, Duncan Clegg, acted as both non-executive
Chairman and temporary Chief Executive prior to Mr Forman's appointment on 30 September 2002. During this period the Company 
did not comply with Section 1A.2 of the Code. Following Mr Forman's appointment the roles of the non-executive Chairman and Group
Chief Executive are once again separate and clearly defined. The Board believes that an effective balance of power and authority is now
maintained through the number and calibre of non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
The senior non-executive director is Alan Cole.
The Board meets regularly to review the performance of the Company and to formulate strategy and is supplied in advance of each
meeting with an agenda and papers covering the financial and operating performance of the Group's businesses and other matters to be
considered at the meeting. There is a formal schedule of executive authorities, which includes matters specifically reserved to the Board
for decision. All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there is an agreed procedure for directors
to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense. The Board has adopted a policy of providing appropriate training for
all new directors who have not previously received such training. All directors are required to offer themselves for re-election at least once
every three years.
Board committees The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee are the two principal committees of the Board. 
The Board also operates a Nominations Committee. The terms of reference of each committee have been approved by the Board, 
which, where applicable, comply with the Code.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises all the non-executive directors under the Chairmanship of Rex Clark. 
The Group Finance Director and the external auditors generally attend the Audit Committee meetings by invitation. The committee, 
which is established with formal, written terms of reference, meets at least three times a year and is responsible for assisting the Board 
to discharge its duties with regard to the Company's financial affairs, for reviewing with the external auditors the adequacy of the
Company's accounting, financial and operating controls and for keeping under review the nature, extent and cost of the services 
provided by the Company's auditors. The Company has recently established an internal audit department. The Head of Internal Audit
reports directly to the Audit Committee and attends the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises all the non-executive directors, under the Chairmanship
of Alan Cole. The executive directors may attend these meetings by invitation. The committee, which is established with formal, written
terms of reference, is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company's broad policy for executive remuneration, including both
short term and long term incentive arrangements, and for reviewing, at least annually, the entire remuneration packages of the executive
directors and certain other senior executives of the Company. The committee is entitled to obtain, at the expense of the Company, such
external advice as it sees fit on any matters falling within its terms of reference. The Remuneration Report for 2002 is on pages 22 to 26. 
The committee has recently developed, with the assistance of independent advisers Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, London, a
performance-related reward structure that should enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate high quality executive talent. 
This reward structure is detailed on page 23 and has short and long term elements. The long term element consists of a new long 
term incentive arrangement which requires the approval of shareholders, which will be sought at the extraordinary general meeting 
of the Company to be held on 14 February 2003. In implementing its policy the committee has given full consideration to the 
Principles of Good Governance of the Combined Code with regards to directors' remuneration. A proposal to approve the 
Remuneration Report of the directors for the year ended 30 November 2002 will also be put to shareholders at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting.
20 Low & Bonar Annual report and accounts 2002
Corporate governance 21
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Paul Forman, who was appointed to 
the committee on 7 November 2002 and Alan Cole. Jon Kempster served on the committee from 22 August 2002 to 7 November 2002.
The committee, which is established with formal, written terms of reference, is responsible for recommending to the Board candidates 
for appointment as both executive and non-executive directors, for recommending whether current non-executive directors should stand
for re-election and for recommending to the Board all aspects of remuneration for non-executive directors.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains communications with its shareholders through its interim and annual
reports and through information posted on its web site at www.lowandbonar.com. The Company holds regular meetings throughout 
the year with major shareholders, analysts and the financial press, in particular following the announcements of its interim and full year
results. Visits for analysts and shareholders are also arranged from time to time to operating units. Shareholders attending the annual
general meeting are invited to ask questions and to meet with the directors informally after the meeting. The numbers of proxy votes 
cast in respect of each resolution are announced after the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands. Notice of annual general
meetings is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the systems of internal control within the Group. The purpose
of these systems is to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial information and to maintain proper control over
income, expenditure, assets and liabilities of the Group. The Board has reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the Group faces in
its operations. It has noted and is satisfied with the current control mechanisms and reporting lines that have been in place throughout
the year. However, no system of control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. In carrying out their review,
the directors have regard to what controls in their judgement are appropriate to the Group's businesses, to the materiality of the risks
inherent in these businesses, and to the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
Following a review and analyses of the Company's business risks during 1999 the Risk Management Committee was established. The Risk
Management Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Executive and comprising the Group Finance Director together with four Divisional
Managing Directors, the Group Risk Manager and the Internal Auditor, meets formally at least four times a year to review and analyse
how business risks are being managed. The committee initiates, directs and oversees all risk management activities within the Group 
and provides the forum to investigate the effectiveness of current control strategies and develop specific action plans for remedial work
where it considers this to be necessary. The committee is committed to continue to develop and embed risk management within the
Group. The Board receives reports on the work of the committee and reports from management on internal controls on a regular basis.
The Group Risk Manager reports to the Committee and works closely with both Divisional Management and the head office team. 
The operational issues in our French Plastics business were recognised as a result of the existing internal controls. Corrective action was
taken promptly with reporting lines shortened and a new management structure put in place. However, the series of controls in place 
did not identify the issues as early as the Group would have wished. This issue contributed to the Company establishing an internal audit
department during the year. The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and attends Audit Committee
meetings by invitation. 
One of Paul Forman's early priorities was to improve the existing budgetary and control procedures. This has been done and remains 
an area of considerable focus for the new senior management team.
In addition to the major risk review process and the internal audit function, the Group operates within an established internal financial
control framework, which can be described under three headings:
  Financial reporting - there is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the directors. Monthly actual
results are reported against budget and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
  Operating unit controls - financial controls and procedures including information system controls are detailed in the Group Finance
and Accounting Manual. All operating units are required to confirm annually their compliance with policies and procedures set out 
in the manual and independent confirmation of compliance is obtained annually for selected operating units.
  Investment appraisal - the Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure which are also set out in the Group Finance
and Accounting Manual. These include detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and post completion audits.
Where businesses are being acquired, detailed due diligence is undertaken in advance of acquisition.
The continued development and implementation of the risk management and internal control system across the Group has allowed the
directors to comply with the Combined Code provisions on internal control in the course of the financial year ended 30 November 2002.