 15 Lupus Capital plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The directors acknowledge the importance of the Principles set out in the Combined Code, as issued in revised form in 2006 by the Financial
Reporting Council, and have put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for the Company.
The Company, being quoted on AIM, is not required to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code, but has chosen to make the following
voluntary disclosures:
The board
Board composition
The Board comprises two executive and three non-executive directors. Mr Hutchings was appointed Executive Chairman on 16 February 2004
and Mr Mulhall has served as an executive director since 23 February 2004. Mr Hoad and Mr T ate have served as non-executive directors since
November 2002. Mr Jackson joined the Board as a non-executive director on 17 November 2006. Mr Hoad is the senior non-executive director.
Both Mr Hutchings and Mr Mulhall are engaged full-time on the Company's business and have no outside interests that confl ict with their
responsibilities to the Company. Mr Mulhall is a non-executive director of RingProp plc and RingProp Trading Ltd, in solvent liquidation.
All non-executive directors are independent.
How the board operates
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for strategy, performance and the framework of internal controls. The Board has a formal
schedule of matters specifi cally reserved to it for decision. Responsibility for the day-to-day operational management of Gall Thomson
Environmental Limited, the Schlegel companies and the LSS companies is delegated to the directors of those companies. To enable the Board
to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information. The Company Secretary distributes briefi ng papers to all
directors in advance of Board meetings. All directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary, which is
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The appointment and
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. In addition, procedures are in place to enable the directors to obtain
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board meetings
During the year ended 31 December 2007 , there were six meetings of the Board. Participation in the meetings was as follows:
Mr Hoad, six meetings; Mr Hutchings, six meetings; Mr Jackson four meetings; Mr Mulhall, six meetings; and Mr Tate, five meetings.
Re-election of directors
All directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at Annual General Meetings at a maximum interval of three years. The Articles of
Association provide that directors appointed by the Board will be subject to re-election at the fi rst AGM thereafter.
Remuneration
A report on directors' remuneration is included on pages 17 to 18.
Board committees
The Board has formed an Audit and Corporate Governance Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, each
comprised of all independent, non-executive directors. The existence of the committees ensures that time is allocated on a formal basis to
consider relevant issues.
Audit and corporate governance committee
The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee is made up of the non-executive directors and meets at least twice a year. The chairman and
executive director also attend all meetings of the committee. The committee considers the appointment and fees of the external auditors and
discusses the scope of the audit and its fi ndings. The Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with accounting and legal
requirements and for reviewing the annual and interim fi nancial statements. This committee is chaired by Mr Hoad.
During the year ended 31 December 2007 the Committee held three meetings. Mr Hutchings, Mr Mulhall, Mr Hoad and Mr Tate each attended
all three meetings. Mr Jackson attended two meetings.
The Audit Committee also reviews any non-audit services provided by the auditors. Such services have been, and are, limited to the provision of
transaction support services, tax compliance work and tax advice. The Committee is satisfi ed that the provision of such services does not in
any way prejudice the objectivity and independence of the auditor. Professional firms, other than the auditors provide tax compliance work and
tax advice.
Corporate governance 16 Lupus Capital plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee considers and approves the remuneration and benefi ts (if any) of the directors. The Committee also determines
the remuneration of the directors of the Schlegel companies, of Gall Thomson, of LSS companies and of the service providers contracted to
perform executive functions for the Group as well as long term share incentive and share option schemes for all employees.
The membership and work of the Committee during the year ended 31 December 2007 is described in detail in the Directors' Remuneration
Report on pages 17 to 18.
Nominations committee
The Nominations Committee identifi es and nominates candidates for the offi ce of director of the Company. It meets as and when required and
is chaired by Mr Tate. The Committee did not meet during the year ended 31 December 2007 .
Internal control
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of those
controls. The Board, including the executive directors, reviews the internal control framework on an ongoing basis.
Procedures have been developed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition of assets and to maintain proper accounting
records to provide reliable fi nancial information both for internal use and for publication. In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull
Committee on internal control, the procedures are regularly reviewed in the light of an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the
signifi cant risks faced by the Company. The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of the approval of the
annual report and fi nancial statements. The procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority and there is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. Details
of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2008 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting on page 61.
The Company has set up a website www.lupuscapital.co.uk which shareholders, investors and other interested parties may access. The website
permits users to download copies of published fi nancial reports, press releases and Stock Exchange announcements.
Directors' responsibilities for the fi nancial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union. The parent company financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements,
the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In so far as the directors are aware:
  there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware; and
  the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi nancial position
of the Company and enable them to ensure that the fi nancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and fi nancial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of fi nancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Corporate governance continued