 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7
Corporate governance
follows: Mr Legg, thirteen meetings; Mr Hoad, eleven
meetings; Mr Tate, eleven meetings; Mr Hutchings,
nine meetings; Mr Mulhall, ten meetings.
Evaluation of performance and re-election 
of directors
Since there had been two restructurings of the
Board during the past twenty-five months, both
approved by shareholders, it was not possible to
carry out a formal internal evaluation of the Board
during the period under review. A procedure for
carrying out such reviews in future years has been
discussed and approved.
All directors are subject to re-election by the
shareholders at Annual General Meetings at a
maximum interval of three years. The Articles 
of Association provide that directors appointed by
the Board will be subject to re-election at the first
AGM thereafter.
Remuneration
A report on directors' remuneration is included on
pages 9 and 10.
Board committees
The Board has formed an Audit and Corporate
Governance Committee, a Remuneration Committee
and a Nominations Committee, each comprised of all
independent, non-executive directors. The existence
of the committees ensures that time is allocated on 
a formal basis to consider relevant issues.
Audit and Corporate Governance Committee
The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee
meets at least twice a year and considers the
appointment and fees of the external auditors and
discusses the scope of the audit and its findings.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring
compliance with accounting and legal requirements
and for reviewing the annual and interim financial
statements. This committee was chaired by Mr Legg
during the year ended 31 December 2004. At the
date of this report it is chaired by Mr Hoad.
During the year ended 31 December 2004 the
Committee held two meetings. Mr Legg, Mr Hoad and
Mr Tate all attended both meetings; Mr Hutchings and
Mr Mulhall were each in attendance at one meeting.
The Audit Committee also reviews any non-audit
services provided by the auditor. Such services have
been, and are, limited to the provision of tax
compliance work and tax advice. The Committee
considers that such services can be provided most
efficiently and economically by the same firm as that
conducting the audit. The Committee is satisfied that
the provision of such services does not in any way
prejudice the objectivity and independence of the
auditor. It is proposed that the same policy should
be applied in respect of Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The Committee has not recommended the
establishment of an internal audit function, because
the Group has at present only one active subsidiary
(together with its subsidiary) outside London, 
The directors acknowledge the importance of the
Principles set out in the Combined Code, as issued
in revised form in 2003 by the Financial Reporting
Council, and have put in place a framework for
corporate governance which it believes is appropriate
for the Company, as follows:
The Board
Board composition
Prior to 16 February 2004, the Board comprised an
independent non-executive Chairman, Mr Legg, and
two independent non-executive directors, Mr Hoad
and Mr Tate. On 16 February 2004, Mr Hutchings was
appointed Executive Chairman and on 23 February
2004 Mr Mulhall became an executive director. 
Mr Legg ceased to be Chairman and became one 
of three independent non-executive directors.
The composition of the Board prior to 16 February
2004 was such that that it was not considered
necessary at that time to nominate a senior non-
executive director.  Mr Legg was designated the
senior non-executive director from 16 February 2004
and remained so through the remainder of the year
ended 31 December 2004. 
Since 1 January 2005, Mr Legg has resigned from
the Board and Mr Hoad has succeeded him as
senior non-executive director.
Both Mr Hutchings and Mr Mulhall are engaged 
full-time on the Company's business and have no
outside interests that conflict with their responsibilities
to the Company. Mr Hutchings is a governor of the
Museum of London. Mr Mulhall is non-executive
chairman of RingProp plc, an AIM listed company. 
All non-executive directors are independent.
How the Board operates
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for
strategy, performance and the framework of internal
controls. The Board has a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decision. Responsibility
for the day-to-day operational management of Gall
Thomson Environmental Limited is delegated to the
directors of that company. To enable the Board to
discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate
and timely information. The Company Secretary
distributes briefing papers to all directors in advance of
Board meetings. All directors have access to the advice
and services of the corporate Company Secretary,
which is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures are followed and that applicable rules
and regulations are complied with. The appointment
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter
for the Board as a whole. In addition, procedures are
in place to enable the directors to obtain independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties,
if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board meetings
During the year ended 31 December 2004, there were
sixteen meetings of the Board, five of which took
place before the appointments of Mr Hutchings and
Mr Mulhall.  Participation in the meetings was as Annual Report and Accounts 2004 8
Corporate Governance
The Company has set up a website
www.lupuscapital.co.uk which shareholders,
investors and other interested parties may access.
The website permits users to download copies of
published financial reports, press releases and 
Stock Exchange announcements.
Statement by directors on compliance with 
the provisions of the combined code
The Company has been in compliance with the
provisions of The Combined Code throughout the
year to 31 December 2004, except as follows:
Prior to 16 February 2004, the directors, who at that
time were all non-executive, were appointed without
a specific period of office being set. New letters of
appointment were issued to directors in February 2004,
which provide for a notice period of twelve months for
executive directors and one month for non-executives.
The Board, with only two executive directors, having
carefully considered the position, structure and
strategy of the Group, believes that the nature of the
Group with its focus on identifying, acquiring and
reinvigorating businesses makes it appropriate for
the role of chairman to carry executive responsibility.
Directors' responsibilities for the 
financial statements
Company law requires the directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss
of the Group for that period. In preparing those
financial statements, the directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
  Make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and
  State whether applicable accounting standards 
have been followed subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
whose operations are closely monitored by the
executive directors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee considers and
approves the remuneration and benefits (if any) of
the directors. The Committee also determines the
remuneration of the directors of Gall Thomson
Environmental Limited and of the service providers
contracted to perform executive functions for the Group.
The membership and work of the Committee during the
year ended 31 December 2004 is described in detail
in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 9.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee identifies and nominates
candidates for the office of director of the Company. It
meets as and when required and is chaired by Mr Tate.
The Board as a whole, which prior to Mr Hutchings'
joining was composed entirely of non-executives, dealt
with the introduction of Mr Hutchings to the Board and
related issues that formed the content of the EGM of the
Company held on 16 February 2004. Those meetings
are included in the total of Board meetings described
above. The Committee met once on 17 February
2004 to consider the appointment of Mr Mulhall, with
Mr Tate, Mr Legg and Mr Hutchings present.
Internal control
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible
for the Group's system of internal controls and for
reviewing the effectiveness of those controls. The
Board, including the executive directors, reviews the
internal control framework on an ongoing basis.
Procedures have been developed to safeguard assets
against unauthorised use or disposition and to
maintain proper accounting records to provide reliable
financial information both for internal use and for
publication. In accordance with the guidance of the
Turnbull Committee on internal control, the procedures
are regularly reviewed in the light of an ongoing
process to identify, evaluate and manage the significant
risks faced by the Company. The process has been in
place for the full year under review and up to the date
of the approval of the annual report and financial
statements. The procedures are designed to manage
rather than eliminate risk and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given 
high priority and there is a regular dialogue with
institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to
communicate with private and institutional investors
and welcomes their participation. Details of
resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting on 7 July 2005 can be found in the Notice
of the Meeting on on the inside back cover.