 LUXFER HOLDINGS PLC
DIRECtORS' REPORt
   
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
22
The Directors support the principal of corporate 
governance in so far as it is practical for a company of 
its size.
Our Board of Directors            
In 2010, our Board of Directors continued to consist of 
five members, the maximum number permitted under the 
articles of association of the Company. It comprised a 
Non-Executive Chairman, two Non-Executive Directors 
and two Executive Directors. The Chairman and the 
Executive Directors are shareholders. There were no 
changes in membership of the Board or of the Board 
Committees during the year. Brief biographical details of 
the Directors who served during the year are shown on 
page 20.
Our Board has responsibility for the overall management 
and performance of the Group and approval of its long 
term strategy. They have determined a schedule of 
appropriate matters reserved to them which is reviewed 
periodically. There are six scheduled meetings each year 
with additional meetings called as appropriate. They will 
normally meet at least once a year at one of the Group's 
overseas locations as part of their monitoring role and 
to ensure a better understanding of the Group's various 
operations.
We also have a Remuneration Committee and an Audit 
Committee, which deal with various appropriate aspects 
of the affairs of both the Company and the Group in 
accordance with written terms of reference which are 
reviewed periodically.
The Chief Executive is responsible to our Board for the 
management and performance of the business within the 
frame work of the matters reserved to the Board. Both 
he and the Group Finance Director each provide routine 
monthly reports to our Board which together cover all 
aspects of the business as agreed with the Board from 
time to time and which are then further commented upon 
at	 scheduled	 Board	 Meetings	 and	 elaborated	 upon	 
as necessary.
Our Executive Management Board
We	 also	 have	 an	 established	 Executive	 Management	
Board, chaired by the Chief Executive which is normally 
scheduled to meet monthly. This board consists of 
senior management at Group and divisional level and 
provides a forum where matters of interest or concern 
to the Group can be reviewed and discussed, policies 
agreed and appropriate measures implemented. It also 
provides an opportunity for senior management to 
update themselves with progress in other parts of the 
Group outside their remit. In 2010 the make-up of the 
Executive Board remained the same as in 2009 and 
consisted of seven members.  Brief biographical  details  
of	 the	 Executive	 Management	 Board	 members	 who	
served during the year appear on page 21.
Internal Controls and Risk Management            
As a Group we operate to established procedures, which 
are designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant 
risks in the Group. Such a system can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
mis-statement or loss. These procedures are reviewed 
on an on-going basis as considered appropriate 
and cover both financial and non-financial risks. Our 
Board receives periodic reports on internal controls, 
the management of identified risks and the processes 
involved in their identification.
The following are our Group's principal internal control 
procedures:
Risk Management - We have over the years developed 
and	 implemented	 a	 Risk	 Management	 Process	 with	 the	
help of external advisors. On an annual self-certification 
and monitoring basis, local management create a risk 
profile for their business by identifying and evaluating 
the likelihood and magnitude of their key operational, 
commercial and financial risks. These risk factors are 
also consolidated annually to form an overall risk profile 
for the Group. Risk profiles are used as a management 
tool both at business unit and Group level with a view to 
reducing, transferring or eliminating risk as appropriate 
and where possible.
Health and Safety - The Group is fully committed to 
achieving and maintaining the highest standards of 
health and safety for all its employees, contractors, 
visitors and all those who may be affected by its 
operations as an integral part of good business practice. 
Members	 of	 the	 Executive	 Management	 Board	 have	
been designated to monitor, co-ordinate and report upon 
the health and safety aspects of specific regions of the 
Group's international operations.
The main elements of our approach to health and  
safety are:
 	 	 	 A	 requirement	 that	 all	 operating	 units	 comply	 with	 the	
Group's health and safety policy and relevant local 
health and safety legislation and regulation.
 	 	 Health	 and	 safety	 is	 considered	 as	 an	 element	 in	 both	
the business unit and corporate risk assessment.
 	 	 Each	 operating	 site	 has	 a	 designated	 health	 and	
safety officer who is appropriately trained and 
responsible for health and safety matters and 
compliance with relevant legislation at the site. Risks 
are identified on a site basis and appropriate training 
of employees is undertaken. LUXFER HOLDINGS PLC
DIRECtORS' REPORt
   
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
23
 	 	 	 Site	 health	 and	 safety	 issues	 are	 discussed	 at	 the	
regular business review meetings undertaken by our 
Chief Executive and our Group Finance Director on 
each site.
 	 	 Periodic	 cross	 audits	 between	 operating	 units.	
The results of these audits are reported upon 
to the site managing director with appropriate 
recommendations. Progress on implementation of 
any recommendations is followed and reported upon 
in the business review meetings undertaken by our 
Chief Executive.
 	 	 There	 are	 also	 regional	 periodic	 meetings	 of	 health	
and safety officers from operating units across  
the Group.
 	 	 Professional	 expertise	 is	 sourced	 as	 and	 when	
appropriate.
 	 	 A	 quarterly	 report	 is	 made	 to	 the	 Board	 by	 our	 
Chief Executive who also reports any issue of which 
the Board should be aware if and when such issues 
may arise.
To further heighten the profile of health and safety 
within the Group, in 2009 we introduced two new health 
and safety awards which are competed for annually 
within the Group. They are awarded on a site basis for 
the	  Best	 Overall	 Safety	 Performance'	 and	 the	  Most	
Improved Safety Performance'. All employees at the 
award winning site participate in the reward. 
Environment - Our Group remains committed to a 
high standard of environmental management to ensure 
legislative	 compliance	 across	 the	 Group.	 Members	 of	 the	
Executive	 Management	 Board	 have	 been	 designated	 to	
monitor, co-ordinate and report upon the environment 
and environmental issues relevant to the Group and its 
activities for specific regions of the Group's international 
operations.
The main elements of the Group's approach to the 
environment are:
 	 	 	 A	 Group	 Environmental	 Policy	 and	 site-specific	
Environmental	 Management	 System	 (EMS )	 with	
which all operating sites are required to comply. The 
Group is committed to achieve ISO14001 certification 
at larger sites and several of our business units have 
already achieved this standard. Three additional 
Cylinder plants achieved ISO14001 during 2010. 
Many	 of	 the	 elements	 of	 the	 current	 EMS	 and	 work	
carried out for IPPC registration are consistent with 
ISO14001.
 	 	 All	 UK	 manufacturing	 sites	 that	 require	 IPPC	 permits	
have attained them.
 	 	 The	 environment	 is	 managed	 and	 reported	 on	 at	
various levels within the Group. Each operating 
site has a manager designated with responsibility 
for environmental matters who has appropriate 
knowledge and expertise.
 	 	 External	 expertise	 and	 advice	 is	 sought	 as	 necessary	
and appropriate.
 	 	 The	 Chief	 Executive	 reports	 to	 the	 Board	 annually	 on	
the main environmental issues affecting the Group 
and any significant individual issues are brought to 
the attention of the Board as appropriate and as they 
arise during the year.
 	 	 The	 environment	 is	 considered	 as	 an	 element	 of	 the	
Group's corporate risk assessment. No acquisition 
involving land or an operating site is undertaken 
without first obtaining an independent environmental 
report.
Internal Financial Controls - The key controls consist of
 	 	 	 The	 preparation	 of	 comprehensive	 monthly	 financial	
reviews submitted to and discussed with the 
Directors at regular Board meetings.
 	 	 Hedging	 policies	 approved	 by	 the	 Board	 and	
operated by a hedging committee which is chaired 
by the Group Finance Director. The policy covers 
the Group's exposure to and management of metal 
costs and foreign exchange rates as appropriate. 
The Board also receives regular monthly reports on 
such activities. Policies are reviewed periodically as 
circumstances dictate.
 	 	 A	 Group	 Accounting	 Manual	 and	 Group	 Authority	
Manual	 requiring	 proper,	 consistent,	 and	 legally	
compliant financial management at all levels.
 	 	 Regular	 performance	 reviews	 with	 divisional	
management carried out by our Chief Executive and 
our Group Finance Director at site.
 	 	 Periodic	 internal	 audits	 carried	 out	 by	 Head	 Office	
finance staff.