      Maxima Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
07 
Namesco
We're delighted to have signed a 
strategic managed service agreement 
for Maxima to assume responsibility for 
the provision and management of our 
ADSL platform comprising of over 8,500 
broadband lines to support our ISP and 
hosting activities. 
Claudio Corbetta, 
Managing Director
Maxima is well positioned for Cloud 
Computing, with all the key components 
for providing customers with utility style 
IT solutions. Our large customer base 
has again proved invaluable in ensuring 
that Maxima is not only responsive to 
organisations' needs but also increasingly 
agile in customising solutions to meet 
specific requirements.
A combination of core infrastructure skills, a 
comprehensive Managed Services offering, 
and strong applications expertise means 
that Maxima is ready to support customers' 
Cloud Computing needs. The Company also 
has the operational infrastructure in place, as 
well as applications from partners such as 
Microsoft and IBM, to offer customised Cloud 
Computing delivery solutions where customers 
can be charged on a per usage basis.
We have reduced the number of partners we 
work with in order to concentrate our efforts 
and improve the value proposition through 
the addition of Maxima-developed IP.
Growth engines
We have identified four growth engines 
for Maxima in the future. They have been 
selected based upon our past experience, 
core skills and more recent success with 
customers. There is a strong focus on 
financial return for customers: working on the 
basis that unless customers easily identify 
rapid return, they are unlikely to buy. To 
support our growth engines, organisational 
changes have been necessary. Maxima was 
historically organised into eleven operating 
units, however we have now reduced this to 
two. Maxima's two business units each have 
two areas of core competence:
In the Support Enablement Services unit 
which represents circa 60% of staffing we 
concentrate activities on: 
Virtualisation Services >
Unified Network Infrastructure and  >
Communications Services
In the Business Solutions unit which 
enhances technology from Microsoft and 
SAP we concentrate activities on:
Business Intelligence with particular  >
focus on the financial services industry
Microsoft Dynamics AX/CRM for  >
construction, service management and 
manufacturing industries
Our plans to build four Competency Centres 
are on track, with the first two centres 
for promoting our capabilities around 
Virtualisation and Microsoft Business 
Solutions, opening on time at the end of May 
2010. These centres will play a significant 
role in the growth of Maxima enabling us 
to showcase, with selected partners, the 
benefits of the technology we support 
and the unique skills and experience that 
add the Maxima value. The remaining two 
competency centres are scheduled to open 
before the end of the calendar year.
Sales success
We are already seeing this approach proving 
to be successful, with highlights including 
a 31% increase in new sales orders in the 
second half of the year over the first half and 
an overall 2.5% increase in new sales orders 
from the previous year. The integration of our 
specialist Citrix team in Ireland with the UK 
core business has resulted in a significant 
increase of Virtualisation projects in the 
UK. New multi-year Unified Infrastructure 
projects valued in excess of  12.7m have 
been won from 4 customers resulting in 
an absolute increase of 25% in revenue 
from the top 10 customers. New Microsoft 
Business Solutions customers have been 
added with over  1m of contracts signed in 
the second half of the year and a number of 
long standing customers deciding to migrate 
to Microsoft from older more bespoke 
solutions. Increased concentration on the 
financial services sector for our Business 
Intelligence activities has resulted in over 
 2.5m of orders taken.
Maxima serves over 1400 clients, primarily 
medium-sized UK-based organisations with 
a turnover of between  5m and  500m. 
Increasingly, larger organisations are also 
now contracting with Maxima, particularly 
in areas where we have unique skills and 
competencies.
Customer examples include: Orange UK, 
Mars, AG Barr plc, The Murphy Group, 
Caledonian MacBrayne, Hill and Smith Ltd, 
Anglian Group, Namesco Limited and Arts 
Council.
Economic efficiencies
Maxima has focused on delivering a reliable 
performance, managing headcount, and 
taking significant steps to reduce costs. 
Throughout the year we have continued to 
align Maxima staffing levels with our stated 
business goals. This process has seen the 
recruitment of 61 new employees into the 
UK & Ireland business, bringing new skills 
and experience to strengthen our defined 
areas of competence, while overall UK & 
Ireland staff levels have reduced by 58 
over the period. 
Adopting centralised shared services and 
increasing the volume of work carried out 
in India has started to make a positive 
contribution although there are still many 
more benefits to be realised in the future. 
Projects to improve network connectivity, 
unified communications and customer 
support have all started in the year and will 
deliver benefits going forward. Magnifying 
our focus on credit control has greatly 
assisted in cash generation resulting in net 
debt reducing from  15.5m to  11.8m and 
days receivable down from 61 to 49.
Banking facilities renewed
The board has worked with Barclays Bank 
to renegotiate facilities that were originally 
agreed in 2005 when Maxima and market 
conditions were much different from those 
today. Our recent success of paying down 
debt ahead of expectations enabled us to  more than just IT
08 
Chief Executive's Review continued
Our strategy is...Simplify and focus 
agree the facilities at competitive interest 
rates and with some technical restrictions 
removed. The total cost for arranging the 
new facilities including fees and legal 
expenses was circa  0.5m.
 
Market Conditions
Maxima is addressing challenging market 
conditions by implementing new opportunity 
management and qualification processes. 
Focusing on better quality opportunities 
has helped deliver an increase in our win 
rate, and improved our ability to deliver 
stronger margins. More recently, there have 
been encouraging signs that volumes are 
increasing, complementing the improved 
win rate. The increase in booking volume 
in the latter part of the year is attributed 
to improved sales execution and the 
presentation of improved value propositions.
The tougher macroeconomic environment 
has meant the days of automatic contract 
renewal or extension have been superseded 
by higher service demands from customers 
and procurement led initiatives driving lower 
prices. In most cases we have been able to 
respond favourably to customers using our 
scale and relationship with key suppliers 
to get improved pricing. The increased 
competitive nature of our business sector is 
a double edged sword; on the negative side 
we have to compete hard to retain business 
with existing customers, and on the positive 
side we are able to attack our competitors' 
customers with alternative propositions. 
There are still many risks associated with 
service transfer from one supplier to another, 
but the lure of improved pricing is attracting 
organisations to consider competitive 
options. The new focus and operating 
structure within Maxima is targeted at being 
more attractive to new customers and 
improving the cost and service quality of 
existing customers. 
Our decision to focus on a reduced 
service portfolio will result in some existing 
contracted revenue being at risk. There is, 
however, evidence that contracts in new 
areas of focus can address any losses and 
still support incremental growth.
There has been some reduction in day rates 
for consulting services compared to the 
same period last year, but by concentrating 
on the higher value specialist services, 
Maxima is controlling the impact on margins. 
Despite customers being more risk averse, 
taking longer on technology selection 
and negotiating harder for new systems, 
Maxima has benefited from having a large 
installed base with customers who are more 
comfortable investing with a supplier they 
already know. 
As previously announced, on 20 October 
2009 the company was informed by QAD 
that they intended to end a long standing 
distribution partnership with Maxima, 
indicating that they were going to sell direct 
to customers rather than through Maxima. 
Although this was disappointing news, it 
is encouraging that many of the customer 
relationships will be maintained as Maxima 
has been successful in cross-selling many 
other products and services unrelated to 
QAD. Maxima takes pride in the customer 
relationships derived through the QAD 
product, which in many cases have been 
active for 10 years or more. As a result of 
our good service reputation, we believe 
that circa 75% of impacted customers will 
continue to invest in other business solutions 
and services offered by the company.
Operating Review
Following the appointment of the new 
Maxima board and senior management 
team a number of operational successes 
have been achieved including:
Existing Managed Services customers  >
who have renewed and extended 
services with Maxima - including two 
multi-year service contracts valued at 
over  6.5m which were part of a group 
of existing and new customer wins 
relating to our specialist Unified Network 
Infrastructure and Communications 
capability
Two new customer Cloud type  wins  >
valued at more than  6.2m over three 
years which include the supply of 
converged services from multiple 
suppliers into a flexible commercial 
framework to provide the customer what 
they need when they need it
Multiple new contract wins for Maxima's  >
Citrix Virtualisation capability
Concentrated efforts to drive the  >
partnering relationship with Microsoft 
have resulted in 6 new Microsoft 
Dynamics AX contracts signed with 
organisations such as Anglian Building 
Products Ltd
New orders from UK based  >
Microsoft Business Partners for the 
Maxima developed MAXcel which 
is the company's suite of business 
management software that leverages 
the power of Microsoft Dynamics AX to 
support the needs of the construction, 
service management and manufacturing 
industries
New contracts placed by major banks  >
wanting to access Maxima's specialist 
domain expertise in Business Intelligence 
technology from SAP and Microsoft
Centralised Maxima shared service  >
functions making a positive contribution 
helping to minimise costs, recruit new 
skills and generate new opportunities
Business Review