 32 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Corporate sustainability 
We deliver essential front-line services that make
a very real difference to quality of life for our
communities. Therefore, we see it as our
responsibility to deliver social and environmental
sustainability in everything we do. It's also an
increasing priority for our public and regulated
sector clients - sustainability and environmental
issues are right at the top of their agendas. 
May Gurney is leading the way in inspiring 
its clients, its employees and its supply chain
partners in making a tangible difference. 
This year, we have completed our first 
waste-neutral project, which received a 
National Green Apple Environmental Award; 
we embarked on a series of climate adaptation
workshops with our clients; we set a carbon
reduction target and strategy; we established
measurable sustainability targets, and a process
for managing our progress; our employee-led
Environment Champions programme 
(another Green Apple Award recipient) was
extended across the business; and, with our
help, the Somerset Waste Partnership achieved
the highest household waste recycling rates 
in the UK.
The key elements of sustainability are living
within environmental limits, ensuring a healthy
and just society, and achieving a sustainable
economy. Our goal is to embed sustainability 
into every aspect of our service delivery across
the UK and to create economic, environmental
and social value by taking pragmatic action
where it has maximum impact - today, on the
ground, in our communities - in order to ensure
a better future. 
This means looking at the way we currently do
things through a corporate sustainability lens 
and being proactive about making changes 
that will make a difference. Our goal is to be
recognised as a leader in sustainability by our
clients, our employees, our supply chain and 
our communities. 
We are making substantial changes to our 
goals, structures and processes. This year we
established a framework for delivering corporate
sustainability. During 2008 we created the role 
of Head of Sustainability to lead the development
and implementation of an integrated approach
for the business and to bring together the good
examples of corporate sustainability that have
been a key part of our operations for many years.
Following a thorough review, we have started 
the journey of embedding sustainability into the
way we do business by making it an essential
part of our strategic planning and monthly
business review processes. This has been
accompanied by the setting of clear corporate
sustainability targets across the five key areas
where we can make a positive impact and add
real value: Climate Change, Waste Minimisation,
Sustainable Resources, Community Investment
and Biodiversity & Ecosystems. 
Climate change
By 2014, we will be prepared for climate change
and be carbon neutral.
Intermediary targets
k 50% CO2 reduction by 2012 
k Integrate carbon management into our
Business Management System by 2010 
k Undertake climate change adaptation
planning 
Last year we expressed the aspiration that our
ultimate goal is to be carbon neutral. In 2008 
we began calculating our carbon footprint 
on a monthly basis and achieved third-party
certification from the Achilles Certified Emissions
Management and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS)
in 2009. We participated in the 2008 Carbon
Disclosure Project (CDP) and will again in 
2009. This strong foundation has given us the
confidence to attempt a 50% CO2 reduction 
by 2012. 
Biodiversity & Ecosystems
Value 
Creation
Stakeholders
Community Investment
Waste Minimisation
Sustainable Resources
Climate Change
People
Profit
Planet
Sharing our
thoughts on
climate change
We're leading a series of workshops on climate
change adaptation with our long-term clients 
and supply chain partners to encourage 
a shared approach to this important issue.
Participants are tasked with identifying likely 
risks - for example  road surface melt' -
prioritising them and then suggesting corrective
actions. This is consolidated into a risk register
that becomes an action plan for collaborative
change. After attending the workshops over 
95% of delegates said that their knowledge and
skills relating to climate change had improved. 33 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Our Carbon Footprint
k T otal Carbon Footprint (absolute values) 
34,911 tonnes CO2
k Carbon KPI (normalised for revenue growth) 
74.23 tonnes CO2 per  million turnover
In combination with sensible approaches to 
fuel management, the most significant way we
can reduce our overall carbon impact is to look
at different ways of delivering our services. 
A good example is our approach to the collection
of household recycling, which achieved the
highest recycling rates nationwide. We delivered
carbon savings of 100,545 tonnes of CO2 in
2008/09 through saved raw materials, and
reduced associated wider impacts on the
environment. As a result, we are making 
a positive contribution to lowering emissions 
just by how we undertake our work. In contrast,
some organisations plant trees to offset their
carbon impact. This approach avoids addressing
the core issue - which is changing fundamental
behaviours to deliver long-term sustainable
benefits. T o change behaviours we will 
integrate carbon management into our
management systems. 
Climate change adaptation planning has begun
and will continue in partnership with our clients
and supply chain with a series of Climate
Adaptation Workshops.
Waste minimisation 
By 2014, we will divert waste from landfill 
and measurably maximise reuse and 
recycling opportunities.
Intermediary targets
k 20% reduction in spend on waste by 2010 
k Integrate waste minimisation into our Business
Management System by 2010 
k Measure all site waste by 2010 
k Continue to lead nationally on the percentage
of household materials recycled 
Last year we targeted a 20% reduction in waste
to landfill during 2008-2010. We discovered 
that we understood our costs well, but not the
components of waste. Therefore this year we are
focusing on a cost reduction target which can be
measured and drives behaviour change across
the business. T o link to national standards we
have signed up to the WRAP Utility Contractors
agreement. In addition, we've gone a step further
by using it as a basis to audit our performance
and drive improvement in the business. 
We have won a national Green Apple
environmental award for applying the WRAP 
net waste methodology to a recently completed
scheme for our long-term client Norfolk County
Council at Heacham, and this example of best
practice is being rolled out across the Company.
T o change behaviours, waste minimisation will 
be added to our management systems.
With regard to household waste recycling - 
we lead the nation.
We deliver essential front-line services that 
make a very real difference to quality of life 
for our communities and citizens. Therefore, 
we see it as our responsibility to deliver 
social and environmental sustainability in
everything we do.
100 , 545
100,545 tonnes of C02 saved in 2008/09. 
As a result, we are making a net positive
contribution through better ways of working.
.Overview Performance Governance Financial statements
Increasing
capacity,
reducing costs,
saving carbon
For our long-term client Severn T rent Water, our
MEICA (mechanical, electrical, instrumentation,
controls and automation) services team is
working to increase capacity at Bradwell Moor
pumping station in Derbyshire by 30%, reduce
construction and ongoing running costs, and
enable carbon footprint savings of 130 tonnes 
of C02. This success has been made possible
through our early involvement in the programme 
and a collaborative approach with our supply
chain partners. 34 May Gurney Integrated Services plc
Corporate sustainability continued
Sustainable resources
By 2014, we will identify lower CO2 options 
for our projects and manage supply chain
sustainability risks.
Intermediary targets
k Integrate carbon management into our
Business Management System by 2010 
k All projects over  50,000 will prepare CO2
foot printing by 2010 
k Build a database of lower carbon products 
by 2010 
k Manage suppliers for sustainability risk 
by 2010 
In 2008/09 we had an ambition to create 
a  Sustainability Catalogue' of materials. 
We engaged our supply chain and discovered
the complexity of the issue owing to globalisation
and a lack of general standards. At the same
time we are working with our clients to understand
their needs. As a result, we are using third-party
carbon calculators (eg. Environment Agency)
and client specific proprietary tools to calculate
the embedded carbon content of projects. 
In parallel, last summer, we tested incorporating
carbon values in our internal estimating software. 
We see reducing the carbon footprint of our
supply chain as a high priority, yet challenging
task. This is a key business skill which we are
developing for a low carbon economy.
Community investment 
This year we will be focused on the creation 
of Local Community Investment Plans which 
will help co-ordinate and maximise our
community investments.
Intermediary targets
k Establish Local Community Investment 
Plans by 2010 
k Measure employee fit to local diversity 
by 2010 
k Measure local procurement and jobs 
by 2010 
Our goal is to support long-term sustainable
activities in the local communities where we
work, focusing on education, young people 
and the environment. Across the business 
we undertake a wide variety of community
investment activities including charitable giving,
employee fund raising, and participation in
educational and cultural programmes. 
Biodiversity and eco-systems
By 2014, we will report on eco-system impacts
where we work.
Intermediary targets
k Rank and report eco-system impacts from 
all activities over  1 million by 2010 
k Rank and report impacts of all depots 
by 2010 
We have established close links with the
University of East Anglia's (UEA) internationally
recognised School of Environmental Sciences.
With UEA, we have piloted various projects
including measuring the value of carbon stored
in trees. During 2009/10 we are equipping 
our teams with handheld units to report on
environmental impacts. These activities 
support our view that managing eco-system
services (or green assets) will play an
increasingly important role in maintaining 
the UK's essential infrastructure. 
Inspiring our
people to 
take action
There are 64  Environment Champions' 
across the business whose goal is to inspire 
their colleagues to reduce the amount of 
waste we produce and energy we consume.
Within just six months of the programme launch,
at our Group office we had achieved a 28%
reduction in waste sent to landfill, 57% of those
taking part had radically changed their waste
habits at work and 27% said they'd also 
change their approach to waste at home.
The programme has received a Green Apple
Award. Local initiatives include LiftShare; 
travel plans (including improved facilities for
bikes); and video conferencing at our key offices. 
Below Norfolk and Norwich Festival 2009. We have continued
our successful partnership with the Norfolk and Norwich
Festival, the largest arts festival in the Eastern region. This is 
the second year we have supported their free, outdoor events
programme -  MG Free' - which we have designed to attract
and engage people of all ages and from every part of our local
community. This year, more than 34,000 people enjoyed 
our free events.