 29
 McBr ide plc 
Annual report and accounts 2008 
 Overview of the year Bus i n e ss r e vi ew T h e f i gure s Ou r g o v e r n a n ce 
Directors' report
Our governance
As a member of the Courtauld Commitment supported by WRAP 
(Waste and Resources Action Programme), we have continued to 
take an industry lead in lightweighting packaging of our products. 
In particular, McBride' s work in reducing the weight of its washing 
up liquid bottles was awarded  Best in Class' by WRAP in the UK 
and will reduce product packaging by around 18%.
The development of our i-clean range of refillable trigger cleaners 
and the development of phosphate free laundry tablets and 
phosphate free automatic dishwashing tablets further demonstrate 
the Group' s commitment to setting the standards in delivering more 
environmentally friendly products. In May 2008, McBride became 
the first company to achieve certification under the revised AISE 
Charter for Sustainable Cleaning, enabling the Group to continue 
to use the Charter logo on products which it manufactures.
Health and safety
McBride strives to maintain a safe workplace at all locations 
in which it operates. We continue to ensure that our business 
activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in 
accordance with relevant statutory legislation and that all 
employees participate in the development, promotion and 
maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment 
for employees, visitors and the public.
We have comprehensive internal safety management procedures 
that include maintenance of health and safety policy manuals, 
verification of regulatory compliance, risk assessment, individual site 
action plans, safety audits, training, formal incident investigation 
and provision of occupational health services. There is also a strong 
focus on the use of key performance indicators, external auditing 
and achieving exacting external health and safety accreditation for 
its operations. Internal training is provided to ensure compliance 
with McBride' s standards.
All sites work closely with local enforcing inspectors who make 
regular visits, not simply to investigate accidents, but also to 
plan compliance audits and agree priorities. Major exercises are 
undertaken at our sites, together with local authorities, to test 
action plans for dealing with site emergencies. Such tests are 
useful learning exercises for all parties and help to underpin the 
disaster recovery plans developed for each site. Five factories hold 
the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety accreditation, 
one more than last year.
All accidents and major incidents are reported internally and 
are investigated fully to determine appropriate corrective and 
preventative measures. Incidents that result in more than three 
days lost time are monitored. In the year ended 30 June 2008, 
there were 160 such incidents across the Group, 2 below last year .
Sadly, in June 2008, for the first time in over 20 years, we have had 
a fatality at work in the business. The incident at our Polish factory 
involved an external contractor. The Board is extremely concerned 
about this incident and full investigations are being conducted. 
We await final reports and will implement any recommendations. 
Meanwhile, all other sites have reviewed their procedures to 
ensure we are fully compliant with both internal Health and Safety 
policies and external regulatory requirements.
Sustainability is an integral step 
in our product and packaging 
development processes.
Innovative packaging
McBride's focus on sustainability and support for WRAP's 
(Waste and Resources Action Programme) Courtauld 
Commitment to reduce packaging waste, combined 
with escalating packaging costs, has driven the Group's 
development of novel packaging concepts to build additional 
sustainability into its business.
Washing up liquid bottles
A series of adjustments to the construction of the bottle 
(and bottle cap) used for our washing up liquids in the 
UK has reduced the amount of plastic used by over 18%, 
equivalent to nearly 300 tonnes per annum.
* 
We continue 
to work on similar projects in other product categories and 
geographies that we expect to deliver further significant 
sustainability gains.
This project achieved  Best in Class' status from 
WRAP in 2008.
Use of recycled polymer in packaging
McBride commenced research on incorporating recycled 
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic polymer into its 
product containers and during the year started producing 
certain Personal Care products using this packaging. Projects 
such as these will help support increases in recycling of 
plastics and corresponding reductions in waste. They should 
also lower energy use and carbon emissions as less energy 
is required to re-use recycled PET than to produce new PET. 
In the long-term they could also reduce demand for new PET, 
potentially helping to reduce polymer costs.
 What is your strategy to deliver 
value in today's markets? 
Sustainability
By adjusting our packaging we have reduced the 
amount of plastic used in just one of our product 
categories by nearly 300 tonnes per annum.
-3 00  tonnes 30
 McBr ide plc 
Annual report and accounts 2008 
Directors' report
Our governance
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) report continued
Product safety
McBride is committed to understanding safety issues related to its 
products and for ensuring that they are suitable and safe for their 
intended use. Our Product Safety policy statement is published 
on the Group' s website at www.mcbride.co.uk. This is supported 
by comprehensive management systems that reflect legal and 
regulatory compliance as a minimum standard and cover raw 
material use and product assessments, labelling and packaging 
requirements. McBride contributes to voluntary initiatives on 
product safety by industry associations such as AISE (International 
Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products). 
Product safety evaluations are made in our operations 
without tests on animals. Our animal testing policy statement 
is published on the Group' s website at www.mcbride.co.uk. 
We support the development and acceptance of alternative 
product safety evaluation methods that reduce or replace 
the use of animals. We do not request animal testing of products 
or ingredients by suppliers and we maintain contact with 
our suppliers to ensure that our values on this subject are 
shared and specific requirements of individual retailers are met.
Human safety and environmental assessments for Household 
and Personal Care products are carried out under the Dangerous 
Preparations and Cosmetic Products Directives respectively . 
It is our policy not to sell products involving risks to human safety 
and/or the environment under normal and foreseeable conditions 
of use. All products are assessed before launch for human health 
and environmental impact.
The REACh (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemicals) legislation, regarding the safe use of chemicals, 
came into force across Europe in 2007 with the first formal actions 
required in mid-2008. In the interim, efforts have been targeted on 
data gathering and we now have a database that will support our 
REACh requirements and evidence our REACh compliance.
Employment practices
The success of our business is dependent upon the quality, 
commitment and behaviour of our employees. Therefore we 
provide clear policies and direction to our managers and strive 
for the highest standards in management practices. We aim to 
retain and develop our employees and to help them to fulfil their 
career potential.
We provide equal opportunities for all in recruitment, selection, 
promotion, employee development, training and reward policies 
and procedures. We are committed to adherence with international 
human rights standards. We have no involvement in the use of 
child labour or forced labour in our business and check the status 
of our overseas suppliers in this respect. We do not tolerate unfair 
discrimination of any kind. We also comply with applicable national 
laws and industry standards on working hours and insist on high 
standards of personal behaviour from our employees. 
Regular opinion surveys are undertaken of all staff to measure 
and monitor employee satisfaction within the Group. The results 
of these surveys are used to improve communication, motivation 
and engagement across the business.
Business ethics and relationships
We expect employees to operate to high ethical standards in 
compliance with our Policy on Social Responsibility and Business 
Ethics which outlines the principles behind our approach to 
business. All business dealings are expected to be conducted 
with utmost discretion, integrity and respect for all parties as 
well as in compliance with local and national legislation. While 
respecting the privacy of its employees, McBride expects them 
to be law-abiding and not to demonstrate anti-social behaviour 
which could adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
We are committed to providing high quality products and service 
in line with our customers' expectations; customer service is 
measured daily and considered to be the primary operational 
performance indicator across the Group.
We employ purchasing procedures that select suppliers on the 
basis of specification, quality, service and economic factors and 
favour those who operate in an ethical and socially responsible 
manner and who are committed to minimising their impact on 
the environment. All contracts are based on fairness and equality 
of treatment for potential suppliers. Under no circumstances are 
financial inducements or bribes permitted, made or accepted 
regardless of amount, whether direct or indirect, or to or from 
third parties. 
Procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised disclosure 
of confidential information about the Group to competitors 
and to prevent any attempt to improperly acquire trade secrets 
or any other confidential information from competitors. 
A whistleblowing policy statement provides a procedure 
for employees to air concerns about any suspected serious 
malpractice including fraud, corruption, bribery, criminal 
offence or other failure to comply with legal obligations.
Insider dealing is illegal and not tolerated within the Group; 
clearance to deal in the Company' s shares must be sought by all 
senior management from the Chief Executive or the Company 
Secretary prior to dealing. Detailed guidelines on insider dealing 
are available from the Group' s website at www.mcbride.co.uk.
Community activities
McBride seeks to play an active role in the local communities 
in which it operates. As well as providing significant employment 
opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions to these 
communities, building goodwill and a reputation as a good 
neighbour and employer.
The Group is involved in a wide range of local community activities 
including factory visits; providing careers advice for students 
and school children; providing mentoring support to assist ethnic 
minority students into employment; providing work experience 
placements; supporting local charities and promoting the UK 
government' s  Skills for Life' strategy that aims to provide literacy, 
language and numeracy skills to enable employees to function 
effectively at work and in society.