 Corporate Governance
The Board recognises its responsibility to the Group's shareholders for good corporate 
governance.  This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are
applied to the Group and the Group's compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
issued in June 1998 (The 1998 Combined Code ).  A new Combined Code was published by
the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003,  intended to apply to reporting years beginning
on or after 1 November 2003.  The Board continued to move towards compliance with the
new Code during the year under review and will report against the requirements of the new
Code for the current financial year commencing 1 September 2004.  
The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 1998
Combined Code throughout the year with the exception of the following:
  The Remuneration Committee recognises that some service contracts for long serving 
Directors currently have termination periods in excess of the recommended one year 
maximum (provision B1.7).  However, for a number of years new Directors have been 
appointed on one year notice period contracts.
  For the period from 1 September 2003 to 10 November 2003 the Audit Committee did 
not comprise at least three directors (provision D3.1).  Following his appointment to the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director on 10 November 2003, J Stevenson became a member 
of the Audit Committee.
  Sir George Young and S E K Purser, Non-Executive Directors, held office upon letters of 
appointment which were not for specified terms (provision A6.1).  However, in October 
2003 they agreed to have new letters of appointment for a specified term and all 
Non-Executive Directors now hold office upon letters of appointment for a specified term.  
The reappointment of Non-Executive Directors is not automatic.
  Throughout the year K Lovelock has acted as Chairman and Chief Executive (provision A2.1).
The appointment as Chairman as well as Chief Executive followed the resignation in 
August 2003 of the previous (Non-Executive) Chairman, J S McCarthy, and was considered
necessary in order to provide continuity and stability in the leadership of the Company.
The Board
From 1 September 2003 the Board comprised five Executive Directors and two Non-Executive
Directors and as from the appointment of J Stevenson on 10 November 2003 the Board 
comprised five Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.  The Board is responsible
to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
The Board considers each of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.  It is conscious of
the fact that S E K Purser has served on the Board for more than 9 years from the date of his
first election; however, it is satisfied that he remains independent in character and judgement.
Directors are subject to re-election every three years and subject to election at the first
opportunity after their appointment.  The names of Directors submitted for  re-election can
be found in the Directors' Report on page 28 and their biographies can be found on pages 
26 and 27.  A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out
on page 29 and a statement on going concern is given on page 15.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.  All
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, T L Green, who
is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable
rules and regulations are complied with.  In addition the Directors may take independent 
professional advice as required.
The Board normally meets once a month, reviewing trading performance and ensuring adequate
funding and periodically meets to determine and monitor strategy.  To enable the Board to
discharge its duties all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.  Briefing papers
are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings.  In addition to the Board and the
Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees, an Executive Committee meets regularly to
take the key decisions relating to the Group's development activities.  
Annual Report & Accounts
Page 30  McCarthy & Stone plc
Statement by the
Directors on Compliance
with the Code of Best
Practice
The Workings of the
Board and its
Committees Corporate Governance
Annual Report & Accounts
McCarthy & Stone plc  Page 31
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year is shown in the
table below, together with details of attendance by individual Directors.
No. of 
Meetings K Lovelock M Thorne M Jennings H Phillips G Day S Purser Sir G Y oung J Stevenson
Board 16 16 16 16 15 16 16 15 14
Audit Committee 6 - - - - - 6 6 4
Remuneration Committee 4 - - - - - 4 4 3
Nomination Committee 1 - --- - 1 1 1
The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs:
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprised Sir George Young (Chairman), S E K Purser and,
following his appointment on 10 November 2003, J Stevenson.  
On 4 August 2004 J Stevenson was appointed Chairman of the Committee in place of Sir
George Young, who remains a member of the Committee.
The Committee makes recommendations and monitors the level and structure of remuneration
for senior management.  It reviews senior appointments throughout the Group and determines
the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors.  Further details of the
Group's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in
the report on Director's remuneration on pages 33 to 38.  
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprised S E K Purser (Chairman), Sir George Young and, following his
appointment on 10 November 2003, J Stevenson.  The Committee provides a forum for reporting
by the Group's external and internal auditors.  Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and other Directors where appropriate.  
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters, including
the half year and annual accounts before their submission to the Board, and monitoring the
controls that are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the
shareholders.  The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors
and on their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature and
scope of the audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee periodically reviews the Group's Whistleblowing Policy and reviews
arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties
in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprised K Lovelock as Chairman, Sir George Young, 
S E K Purser and, following his appointment on 10 November 2003, J Stevenson.  The 
committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments, evaluating 
potential candidates and making recommendations to the Board for consideration.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.  The operational and financial
reviews on pages 7 to 15 include a detailed review of the business and future developments.
Presentations are given to the Group's institutional shareholders after the Group's preliminary
announcement of the year end results and  after the half year results.  In addition, the Group has
established a web-site containing financial and investor information in relation to the Group.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional
investors and welcomes their participation.  The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees intend to be available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions. Corporate Governance
Annual Report & Accounts
Page 32  McCarthy & Stone plc
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal controls,
including suitable monitoring procedures and for reviewing its effectiveness.  The system of
internal controls is designed to manage business risks and as such can only provide reasonable,
and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year, the Group has been, and will continue to be fully committed to a risk
management process and operates by setting business targets within appropriate timeframes.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the Group.  These have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of the
report and accounts, and include:
  Business activities are governed by comprehensive guidance provided by policies and 
procedures, which are regularly reviewed by the Board.
  Regional day-to-day control and corporate compliance is achieved by a thorough process 
of financial, legal and operational manual documentation for every project from planning 
through to completion.  This includes specific Executive Committee control and authorisation
over key stages of land purchasing, construction and other key phases, as well as regular 
reporting and review of financial results and non-financial performance.
  The development and implementation of computer information systems throughout the Group 
will further enhance the controlling and monitoring of projects from inception to completion.
  An approved annual budget and three year rolling workflow plan is produced.
  Each month, detailed monthly reports of trading results, balance sheets and cashflows are 
produced.  These are subject to regular review and any unexpected variances from budgets
are followed up by management.
  Key financial risks are controlled through the use of clearly laid down authorisation levels 
and proper segregation of accounting duties.
  Business control processes are supplemented by documented annual control self-assessment
reviews in each Region, as well as an ongoing process of financial and operational internal
audits carried out by qualified staff.  Results of these are regularly reviewed by the Audit 
Committee and by the Board.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for
the period covered by the accounts and finds that the Group has been in full compliance with
provision D2.1 of the 1998 Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance.