 Abcam plc
Annual report and accounts 
30 June 2008
19
Corporate Governance
Although not required to do so by the AIM listing rules, the Directors 
have chosen to provide selected corporate governance disclosures 
with this report, which they consider valuable to the readers.
The Directors believe that effective corporate governance, 
appropriate to the Group considering its size and stage of 
development, will assist in the delivery of corporate strategy, the 
generation of shareholder value and the safeguarding of 
shareholders' long-term interests. The Directors are committed 
therefore, wherever it is reasonably practicable, to ensure that the 
Group is managed in accordance with the principles set out in the 
revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code ).
The role and composition of the Board
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, who is not 
deemed to be independent because of his shareholding, three  
full-time Executive Directors and four other Non-Executive 
Directors, two of whom are deemed not to be independent: Tony 
Kouzarides because of the size of his shareholding and Mark 
Webster because he has been employed in an executive capacity 
during the last five years. 
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are vested in separate 
individuals, each with clear allocation of accountability and 
responsibility. The Chairman has prime responsibility for running 
the Board and the Chief Executive Officer has executive 
responsibilities for the Company's strategic development, 
operations and results. 
The structure of the Board and the integrity of each Director 
ensures that there is no one individual or group dominating the 
decision making process.
The Board holds full meetings every second month. The principal 
matters that it considers are as follows:
 Monthly management accounts, key performance indicators and 
performance against budget;
 Regular reviews of R&D, operations and product line acquisitions;
 An annual review of strategic objectives and Group priorities;
 The Group budget;
 Reporting including statutory accounts, dividend policy, dividend 
payments and the AGM;
 Performance of the Board and sub-Committees;
 Reports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees;
 An annual review of risk-management strategy and controls and 
a six-monthly review of the risk register;
 Matters relating to the Company's obligations as a listed 
Company; and
 Management of funds and major capital expenditure, including 
proposals for mergers or acquisitions of other companies or 
product lines.
In those months when the Board does not meet, members continue 
to be informed on a formal reporting basis of financial results and 
key issues. The Board is supplied with information in a timely 
manner, and in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to 
discharge its duties. Directors receive appropriate induction on 
joining the Board and regularly update their skills and knowledge.
The Board has a policy to set out which matters are reserved for the 
decision of the Board, and to clarify those matters which the 
Executive Directors need not refer for approval. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This policy also identifies those matters regarding which full 
delegation to a Board Committee is not normally permitted because 
a final decision on the matter is required to be taken by the whole 
Board. The terms and conditions for the appointment of non-
executive Directors are available for inspection. Matters which the 
Board considers suitable for delegation are contained in the terms 
of reference of its Committees.
The Board has established the following three committees:
The Audit Committee;
The Nomination Committee; and
The Remuneration Committee.
The membership and role of each committee is described in more 
detail below.
The Audit Committee
The Committee is made up of three Non-Executive Directors one of 
whom, the Chairman, is considered to be independent. The 
Chairman is Peter Keen, who is a Chartered Accountant, with David 
Cleevely and Tony Kouzarides being the other Directors on the 
Committee.
The Committee has responsibility for the following matters:
 To review the accounts and the key judgements and policies 
underlying them in relation to the interim and annual financial 
statements before they are submitted to the Board for final 
approval;
 To review the management's reports on internal controls;
 To review the Group's risk-management process, including the 
adequacy of insurance cover;
 To review the appointment of the external auditors together with 
the audit fee; and
 To monitor the audit and non-audit work of the external auditors, 
including reviewing any management letters and the Company's 
response.
As part of its procedures, the Committee discusses the interim and 
annual financial statements with the external auditors. When 
appropriate, non-Committee members are invited to attend. During 
the period the Committee has met twice on a formal basis and a 
number of times informally. The Committee is expected to continue 
to meet formally twice a year.
The Nomination Committee
During the year under review the Committee was made up of three 
Non-Executive Directors, one of whom was considered to be 
independent: David Cleevely was the Chairman, and Peter Keen 
and Tony Kouzarides were the other Directors on the Committee. 
From 1 September 2008 Tim Dye, an independent director, took 
over as Chairman with David Cleevely remaining as a member of 
the Committee.
 The Committee is responsible for the following matters:
 To identify and nominate suitable candidates to fill vacancies on 
the Board; and
 To review succession planning for both Directors and the 
management team.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Abcam plc
Annual report and accounts 
30 June 2008
20
Job:	 11373	ABCAM	-	MIDDLE_AW	 Proof:	 05	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	 tim	 Date:	 23.09.2008	
Server:	 Studio	I	 Set-up:	 Tim	 First	Read/Revisions
The Remuneration Committee 
The Committee is made up of three Non-Executive Directors, two of 
whom are deemed to be independent including the Chairman: Peter 
Keen is the Chairman, and David Cleevely and Tim Dye are 
members.
The Committee is responsible for the following matters:
 Setting the basic pay of Executive Directors and the remuneration 
of the Chairman;
 Setting a performance-related bonus plan for the Executive 
Directors;
 Agreeing the allocation and term for the granting of share based 
incentives to Executive Directors;
 Determining the Executive Directors' pension contributions; and
 Overseeing the overall annual pay review for the Group.
The Committee aims to set levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors that are appropriate for the size and complexity of the 
Group. It aims to see that a significant proportion of their 
remuneration package is performance-related. 
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the Company's 
profit share and its equity based incentive schemes, which are 
reviewed each year.
Internal control 
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for safeguarding the 
shareholders' investment and the Group's assets. In applying this 
principle, the Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for 
ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to 
provide it with reasonable assurance regarding effective and 
efficient operation, internal financial control and compliance with 
laws and regulations. 
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors have reviewed the 
effectiveness of the internal controls, and taken steps to ensure that 
the Group has an appropriate control environment for its size and 
complexity. The management team will ensure that the internal 
control environment develops with the size of the Company, with 
respect to the identification, evaluation and monitoring of risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
Such systems, which are designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, will provide 
reasonable, though not absolute, assurance against material loss or 
misstatement.
The Board is committed to transparency in financial reporting, 
internal control and external audit as demonstrated, amongst other 
things, by its reviewing of the Group's arrangements for its 
employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible 
wrongdoing in these areas, which are formalised in a 
whistleblowing  policy circulated to all employees, and through the 
adoption of its policies and procedures for financial reporting.
Board performance evaluation
The Board has recently undertaken an evaluation of its own 
performance. The review involved detailed interviews with each 
Director and the Company Secretary and covered the functioning of 
the Board as a whole, and the operation of each of the committees. 
The review confirmed the high level of commitment and 
professionalism exercised by the Board in the strategic and 
commercial leadership of the Group. It also concluded that the 
Board and its individual members continue to perform effectively 
and operate within a framework of sound governance and 
practices, which wherever it is reasonably practicable, are 
consistent with the principles set out in the Code.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election 
thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Board believes it is important to have open communications 
with shareholders. To this end, the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer, working in consultation with the Company's 
corporate and PR advisors, make themselves available and expect 
to meet with shareholders at least twice a year. The Board intends 
to give a presentation on the Group's progress at the forthcoming 
AGM in November.
Corporate Governance
continued