 11
Mears group plc
Annual report and accounts 2007
Case study:
Social Housing 
 - Welwyn Hatfield
putting tenants at the heart of the business 
Mears was appointed as the sole preferred partner of Welwyn Hatfield Borough Council in 2007. The new 
contract, which, encompasses the Council's full scope of works including, Responsive Repairs and Void 
and Decent Homes Refurbishments, is worth a minimum of  11.2m per annum for a 15 year period. 
The contract was won on the back of the completion of a successful five year partnership between Mears 
and the Council and a bid that placed tenants at the heart of the partnership. The 15 year term offers 
an opportunity to develop unprecedented levels of innovation and added value to the service provision, 
and to make a considerable long term investment in tenants, the housing stock, and the communities 
of Welwyn Hatfield. 
As a part of this new contract, Mears have taken partnering to a new level through investment in 
a co located building at Hydeway in Welwyn. Hydeway was a derelict building that has been empty 
for many years. Vandalised continuously, this old factory and warehouse site was an eyesore located 
in the heart of Welwyn Garden City. 
The newly refurbished facility includes:
   Offices for the Tenant Panel, Council staff and Mears.
  A state of the art call centre including out of hours.
  A training suite.
  A kitchen manufacturing factory.
  Warehouse facilities for our stores partner Wolseley.
   Storage and offices for our supply chain partners.
  Kitchen and bathroom showrooms.
  A joinery shop.
  A Mears Foundation training centre.
  A furniture recycling charity.
This facility will be the platform for Mears to deliver first rate service to the residents of Welwyn and Hatfield. 12
Mears group plc
Annual report and accounts 2007
acquisition
During the year, the Group expanded into 
domiciliary care, initially, through the acquisition 
of Careforce for a total consideration of  23.8m. 
This consideration comprised of  12.2m of cash with 
the balance settled by the issue of 3.3m Mears shares 
in exchange for existing Careforce shares. A further 
 5.6m was used to settle the debt facility held 
by Careforce. This acquisition gave the Group a 
significant foothold within the domiciliary care 
market from where it has continued to grow 
both organically and through acquisition. 
The Group carried out a further eight domiciliary 
care acquisitions strengthening our national 
coverage of this market. The entire share capital 
of each business was purchased for a combined 
cash consideration of  10.6m (including costs). 
All acquisitions were structured on a similar basis, 
typically on a multiple of between four or five times 
EBITDA. Further consideration of  3.0m is deferred 
subject to meeting future performance targets. 
The domiciliary care business is performing in line 
with our expectations and ended the year with a run 
rate in excess of 75,000 hours per week, an increase 
of some 50% on the original Careforce business.
The Group also acquired the Social Housing contracts 
from Makers UK Limited for a nominal consideration. 
An additional payment of  1.3m was made to 
acquire the work in progress at book value.
orDer book
The visibility of our earnings continues to improve 
with in excess of  500m of new work being secured 
in 2007. Our order book now stands at  1.4 billion 
(2006:  1.1 billion). The element of market forecast 
turnover secured for 2008 is 97% and 77% for 2009. 
We continue to place great emphasis on winning 
good quality contracts that can provide clear and 
sustainable margins. 
balance sheet
Total shareholders' equity value rose by  44.7m to 
 82.7m at 31 December 2007. The increase in net 
assets is due to retained profits and the shares issued 
in the year. Significant movements in the balance 
sheet are:
  the Group recognised  33.0m of goodwill 
and  13.1m of intangible assets predominantly 
relating to the acquisition of Careforce and 
additional eight bolt on domiciliary 
care acquisitions;
  trade and other receivables at 31 December 2007 
were  51.6m, an increase of  11.3m of which 
 6.1m was due to the inclusion of the 
acquisitions; and
  trade and other payables at 31 December 2007 
were  52.4m, an increase of  10.2m of which 
 6.2m was due to inclusion of the acquisitions 
and  2.8m of deferred consideration that has 
now fallen payable in less than one year.
This acquisition gave the Group a significant 
foothold within the domiciliary care market 13
Mears group plc
Annual report and accounts 2007
MaJor contract wins anD Mobilisations
We have achieved a number of major successes, 
winning contracts valued at in excess of  500m 
in total over the last twelve months. 
social housing contract wins
We won a ten year contract, worth  50m, to carry 
out response and repairs work for Midland Heart 
Housing Association. Midland Heart is one of the top 
ten housing and regeneration groups in the country 
and the largest based in the Midlands. The contract 
mobilised in December 2007.
We were awarded the 15 year sole partner 
contract with Welwyn Hatfield District Council 
to deliver their entire housing maintenance and 
improvement programme. This is worth a minimum 
of  168m over 15 years but further negotiated works 
could see that rise. We have been working in Welwyn 
and Hatfield since 2001. This award demonstrates 
the value of choosing customers with a strong 
partnership ethos and represents the biggest sole 
partner contract award in Mears history.
We were successful in winning a major new  89m 
partnership contract in Sedgefield in the North East 
of England. The contract term is five years with a 
possible two year extension. This strategic partnership 
covers all aspects of housing repairs, maintenance 
and Decent Homes across the 8,500 properties in 
Sedgefield Borough Council with 170 existing 
Sedgefield employees having transferred to Mears. 
The contract mobilised in February 2008.
We were successful in obtaining a flagship contract 
worth  65m with Birmingham City Council to provide 
responsive repairs and voids refurbishment in the 
Northern area of the City. The work will encompass 
the transfer of over 300 staff and it will last for an 
initial period of four and a half years with an option 
to extend to a full term of seven years. This win 
follows an extensive tender process, lasting over 
six months, through which Mears was able to 
demonstrate service and efficiency benefits for both 
the Council and the residents of North Birmingham. 
The contract went live on 1 April 2008.
We were awarded a  10m, five year contract 
with Mole Valley Housing Association. The work 
is for planned maintenance and voids and can be 
extended for a further five years. Mole Valley Housing 
Association, based in Surrey, was created in 2007 
following a transfer from Mole Valley District Council 
and has over 3,800 homes. It is part of the Circle 
Anglia Group which has a housing stock of over 
27,000 properties and is one of the largest housing 
associations in the UK. The contract commenced 
on 1 April 2008.
We received a five year contract extension on 
the response and voids maintenance contract 
with Wycombe District Council. This is worth 
 20m over five years and is awarded on the back 
of providing the tenants a high quality service. 
The most efficient way to win new business is 
to renew existing contracts. We have renewed the 
majority of contracts as they come up for renewal. 
In the last ten years, we have failed to renew only 
one material contract. 
winning contracts 
valued at in excess of  500m  14
Mears group plc
Annual report and accounts 2007
DoMiciliary care contract wins
The Group won a number of domiciliary care 
contracts including a contract with Wigan 
Metropolitan Borough Council for the provision 
of domiciliary care services for an initial period 
of three years plus a further potential two year 
extension. The initial contract value will be around 
 1m per annum. The Group was also successful 
in obtaining contracts for Homecare in Trafford, 
North Tyneside and for Extra Care Sheltered Housing 
in Nottinghamshire. These three contracts have 
combined annual revenues of approximately  1.5m.
Careforce has also been successful in securing 
future revenues, in two areas where existing 
contracts having come to the end of their natural 
term were being retendered. In both cases, Careforce 
has been successful in winning higher volumes of 
the outsourced work at similar or increased billing 
rates. In Rotherham, Careforce has won the 
maximum possible allocation of three blocks and 
in Hertfordshire we won contracts which will lead 
to significantly increased volumes that will run 
to at least 2015 with possible extensions to 2018. 
The anticipated aggregate forward sales value of 
the new contracts in Rotherham and Hertfordshire 
is in the region of  34m during the basic contract 
terms or around  52m if the options to extend 
both contracts are taken up.
training anD DevelopMent 
We are an established  Investor in People' and we 
are meeting the challenge of the skills shortage in our 
sector through a comprehensive national programme 
of employee development, together with structured 
work experience and training programmes for 
prospective employees.
We are particularly proud of our safety record which 
has been further enhanced by our new safety course 
for staff that we have developed together with the 
British Safety Council. All our operatives have received 
this additional training in 2007.
In addition to our existing Training Foundation in 
Hackney, we have supported the launch of the Ealing 
Diploma and Enterprise Centre (EDEC) which aims to 
give young people aged 14-19 years broader options 
alongside other qualifications such as GCSEs and 
A  Levels. Students who attend are given the 
opportunity to learn skills that they would not learn 
in mainstream education and achieve the Diploma 
in Construction and the Built Environment. We plan 
to invest in further training centres in 2008 in 
Birmingham and Sedgefield.
custoMer anD coMMunity care
With over 50% of our staff participating in 
community improvement projects, Mears has 
one of the highest levels of volunteering of any 
company of its size in the UK. Over 13,000 hours 
of community work was undertaken, with over 
220 individual projects.
Mears has one of the 
highest levels of volunteering
 