 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
18 Metalrax Group PLC Engineering specialists
The board has studied the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance published in July 2003, which applied to the
group from the year 2004. The board now reports how it
has applied the Principles of Good Governance and the
board believes it has, save where stated, complied with the
Code provisions during 2005.
Application of the principles
The board has applied the principles in a manner which it
considers appropriate to the particular circumstances of
Metalrax Group PLC. The structure of the group is not
complicated and the activities are focused on
manufacturing and product marketing. Direction of the
group emanates from a relatively compact head office and
the emphasis is on day-to-day contact between executive
Directors as well as formal board meetings. The non-
executive Directors, who are of independent mind, are
appointed to provide a balance at board meetings and to
contribute their knowledge and experience. The finance
Director, who is also the company secretary, is responsible
for providing all board members with relevant monthly
financial information. 
Composition of the board
The board currently includes four independent non-
executive Directors, being J. R. A. Crabtree who is also the
Chairman of the Nomination Committee, R. Fort who is
the senior independent non-executive Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and J. K. Adcock who
is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee together
with A. P. Pearson who was appointed on 1st January
2006. R. Fort will retire after the Annual General Meeting
in 2007. There are now just two executive Directors, R. E.
Arbuthnot and W. D. Kelly who was appointed finance
Director and company secretary on 14th March 2006. 
J. G. L. Edwards, G. H. Gresham, D. J. Farrimond and R. H.
Brook-Carter (who was appointed on 6th September
2005) relinquished their main board Directorships on 
14th March 2006 in order to take their seats on the newly
created operational board. The Chairman, J. R. A.
Crabtree, has primary responsibility for running the board
and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly
discharge his duties. The chief executive, R. E. Arbuthnot,
has executive responsibility for delivering the group's
strategy and achieving operational and financial goals. 
This year R. Fort has served on the board for over ten
years. He will retire from the board after the 2007 Annual
General Meeting. His place as Chairman of the Audit
Committee will be taken by A. P . Pearson.
Operation of the board
The board meets at least four times per annum and
convenes additional meetings to consider matters that are
time critical. Additional meetings are held annually to
consider and review strategy and opportunities arising. All
Directors attended all board meetings held during the year.
The board operates to oversee the group's activities and as
a whole decides upon dividend policy, acquisition and
disposal strategy and other matters that affect the group
as a whole.
The performance of the board, its committees and
individual members are evaluated by the executive and
Non-Executive Directors as appropriate.
The executive Directors authorise major capital expenditure,
review the day-to-day activities of the subsidiaries, manage
group finances, perform negotiations regarding
acquisitions and disposals, recruit Directors of subsidiaries,
and allocate resources to manage the risk environment.
The Non-Executive Directors under the leadership of R. Fort
are responsible for, but not restricted by, the duties as
described in the terms of reference of the three
committees, namely the Nomination Committee, the
Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Details of the terms of reference for the committees can be
found on the group website.
The newly created operational board oversees the day-to-
day activities of the subsidiaries and internal risk
management is delegated to the management teams,
mainly Directors of the relevant subsidiary companies.
Management decisions include the purchase of authorised
capital expenditure, negotiating contracts for sales and
purchases, recruiting and controlling employees as necessary
to operate their respective companies.
Audit Committee
The committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the
group's financial reporting and the effectiveness of
internal controls and risk management systems. It also
oversees the group's relationship with the auditors and
determines their objectiveness and effectiveness.
Since 2003 the Audit Committee has comprised R. Fort,
who chairs the committee, J. K. Adcock and J. R. A.
Crabtree. A. P. Pearson joined the Committee on his
appointment on 1st January 2006. Meetings are held at
least three times a year. Other Directors may be invited to
attend and the financial Director attended all meetings
held in 2005. The auditors attended two meetings during
2005 and are also authorised to speak directly to any
board member whenever they wish.
Remuneration Committee
Since 2003 the Remuneration Committee has been made
up of J. K. Adcock, who chairs the committee, R. Fort and
J. R. A. Crabtree. The committee meets whenever necessary
and met as a whole three times in 2005. The prime function Corporate Governance 19 Annual Report 2005
of the committee is to establish and review the terms and
conditions for the executive Directors. The Directors'
remuneration report on pages 20 and 21 shows how the
principles regarding Directors' remuneration have been
applied. A. P. Pearson joined the Committee on his
appointment.
Nomination Committee
The principal task of the committee is to ensure that the
skills, experience and age of the board is appropriate to
the group's activities to ensure its future success.
J. R. A. Crabtree chaired the committee which then comprised
R. E. Arbuthnot, R. Fort and J. K. Adcock throughout the year . 
The Nomination Committee met in 2005 to consider the
appointment of A. P. Pearson and in 2006 in respect of 
the appointment of W. D. Kelly.
Internal control
The Directors have overall responsibility for the group's
system of internal controls and at least annually review the
effectiveness of all controls including financial, operational
and compliance controls and risk management systems. The
board confirms that the procedures which accord with the
Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code have been in
place for 2005 and up to the date of approval by the board
of the Directors' report and accounts. They recognise that
any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The trading subsidiaries run as autonomous units, each with
responsibility for its own internal financial control. The
group's head office, which provides the subsidiaries with
back-up expertise whenever needed, regularly monitors their
activities, largely fulfilling the role of internal auditors. The
group has a comprehensive system of financial planning and
reporting which produces inter alia detailed monthly
accounts for every subsidiary. Major capital expenditure is
subject to approval by the board. The group's treasury
operations are conducted on a conservative basis with a view
to eliminating risk so far as possible. The risk management
systems are controlled by head office personnel. Reports are
circulated to the operating subsidiaries identifying potential
areas of risk and recommending procedures for their control. 
Shareholder relations
Both Chairman and chief executive meet regularly with
institutional shareholders mainly in the periods following
the announcement of interim and final results but also at
other times, and the results of those meetings are
communicated to the Directors.
Communication with private and other shareholders is
made both formally and informally at the annual general
meeting which is usually attended by the full board.
Directors' responsibilities for financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the
result for that period. In preparing those financial
statements the Directors are required to:
(i) select suitable accounting policies and apply them
consistently;
(ii) make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
(iii) state whether applicable accounting standards have
been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
and
(iv) prepare the financial statements on the going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the company and to enable
them to ensure that the accounts comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the company and to prevent and
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors' independence
The non-audit work undertaken in the year by the group
auditors, Bentley Jennison, consisted of due diligence
exercises which were controlled by a tax and advisory partner
with no direct involvement in the audit. Bentley Jennison have
also been involved in the preparation of tax computations for
group companies where they are the auditor , again controlled
by a tax and advisory partner, and assisted in the compilation
of draft financial statements for those companies from
information provided by the group. A connected company of
Bentley Jennison provided services to the Group's
pension scheme.
On behalf of the board
W. D. KELLY, F.C.A.
Company Secretary
10th April 2006