 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
For the year ended 31 December 2011
As an AIM listed company, Microsaic Systems plc is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance
Code, a set of recommended corporate governance principles for UK public companies issued by the Financial
Reporting Council. However, the Board recognises the value of good governance and complies with the provisions
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the QCA Guidelines so far as is practicable for a company of its size,
stage of development and nature.
The Board
During the year the composition of the Board changed with the appointment of Malcolm Bateman (Finance Director)
and Peter Edwards (Technical Director), and the resignation of Alan Finlay (Chief Executive Officer). Following the
resignation of Mr Finlay, Eric Yeatman has taken on the role of Chief Executive Officer until a permanent replacement
is appointed, and Colin Nicholl has taken on the role of Chairman. Biographical details of the current Board members
are set out below:
Colin Nicholl, Non-executive Chairman
Colin Nicholl joined the Board of the Company in 2005 and has served as Deputy Chairman since early 2006.
Mr Nicholl was formerly a partner of Cazenove and Co. and Chief Investment Officer of Cazenove Asset
Management. He is a non-executive director of IM Asset Management and was, until its recent takeover, Chairman
of Membrane Extraction Technology Limited. He chairs the Board's Audit Committee and sits on the Board's
Remuneration Committee.
Eric Yeatman, Chief Executive Officer
Eric Yeatman is Professor of Micro-Engineering at Imperial College London. Professor Yeatman is a co-founder of
the Company and has been Chairman of the Board since 2004. Professor Yeatman was educated at Dalhousie
University (Halifax, Canada) and Imperial College London, where he has been a member of staff since 1989.
Professor Yeatman specialises in micro-systems research and has acted as an advisor to two venture capital funds.
Malcolm Bateman, Finance Director
Malcolm Bateman was appointed as Financial Controller to the Company in 2006 and elected to the Board of
Directors in May 2011. Mr Bateman is a graduate in chemistry from Cambridge University and is a Chartered
Accountant. Prior to joining the Company, Malcolm served in various senior executive roles with RMC Group plc
(later acquired by CEMEX) for over ten years. Prior to joining RMC Group, Mr Bateman spent six years with the
audit practice of Touche Ross & Co., London.
Peter Edwards, Technical Director
Peter Edwards joined the Company as Head of Research and Development in 2007 and was elected to the Board
of Directors in May 2011. Mr Edwards, a Chartered Engineer, was awarded a BSc degree in Engineering at Kingston
Polytechnic, and between 1987 and 2007 served in senior positions with Applied Materials Inc., a Fortune 500
company and the global leader in nano-manufacturing technology solutions and a supplier of semiconductor
manufacturing equipment. Between 2001 and 2005 he served as Engineering Director and was responsible for
development of Applied Material's ion implanter products, before finally serving as Key Product Unit Director.
Andrew Holmes, Non-executive Director
Andrew Holmes is Professor of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems at Imperial College London and a co-founder of
the Company. Professor Holmes was educated at Cambridge University and Imperial College London, where he
has been a member of staff since 1995. Professor Holmes specialises in research into microfabrication and
micropower technologies at Imperial College London. Professor Holmes has been Company Secretary of the
Company since 2004.
Peter Selway, Non-executive Director
Peter Selway has served as a non-executive director of the Company since 2001. Mr Selway was educated at
Southampton University and between 1963 and 1998 led an eminent career with Standard Telecommunications
Laboratories which was later acquired by Northern Telecom (later known as Nortel) before finally serving as Director
of Operations between 1994 and 1998. Mr Selway sits on the Board's Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
10 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT - continued
James Ramage, Non-executive Director
Dr James Ramage was appointed as a Director of the Company in April 2010. Dr Ramage is also Chairman of Tesla
Engineering, a manufacturer of high value magnetic components for MRI scanners and other products. Dr Ramage
is a veteran of the analytical instrumentation industry and previously served as a Director and Divisional Managing
Director of VG Instruments plc and Fisons plc. Dr Ramage sits on the Board's Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible, inter alia, for strategy, budget, performance, approval of major capital expenditure and
the framework of internal controls.
Board processes
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee with formally delegated
responsibilities to assist with the execution of its responsibilities.
The full Board holds regular meetings on a monthly basis and additional meetings at any other times as may be
necessary to deal with any urgent matters that arise. The agenda for Board meetings is prepared in conjunction
with the Chairman and submissions are circulated in advance. The Company management team prepares regular
reports which allow the Board to assess the Company's activities and review its performance and the Board has
clearly specified the levels of authority delegated to management. Members of the Company's management team
are regularly involved in Board discussions and Directors are able to have discussions with other employees where
appropriate.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk-management systems. Internal control systems
are designed to meet the Company's particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed. The internal control
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and by their
nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
Composition of the Board
The Board currently comprises seven Directors. 
The role of the Chairman is filled by a Non-executive Director.
Directors appointed by the Board are subject to re-election by shareholders at the following annual general meeting
and thereafter Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Conflicts of interest
Directors must keep the Board advised of any interest that could potentially conflict with those of the Company.
Where a conflict exists, the Director concerned is not present at the meeting whilst the relevant matter is considered.
Audit Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is documented in its terms of reference which were adopted by the Board of
Directors on 31 March 2011.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities for corporate
governance, financial reporting, corporate control and risk management.
The Audit Committee normally meets at least twice a year and, amongst other things, reviews the annual report
and accounts and interim statements with the external auditors. The Committee also approves external auditors'
fees and ensures auditors' independence as well as focusing on compliance with legal requirements and accounting
standards. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual financial statements and interim
statements remains with the Board.
The members of the Audit Committee for 2011 were C J Nicholl (Chairman), P R Selway and J C Ramage. The
external auditors, the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and other executives may be invited to the Audit
Committee meetings at the discretion of the Committee. 
The Audit Committee met five times in 2011.
11 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT - continued
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee is documented in its terms of reference which were adopted by the Board
of Directors on 31 March 2011.
The Remuneration Committee meets as required and at least once a year. Its responsibilities include reviewing the
performance of the executive Directors, setting their remuneration levels, determining the payment of bonuses and
other benefits and considering the grant of options under the Company share option schemes.
The members of the Remuneration Committee for 2011 were P R Selway (Chairman), C J Nicholl and J C Ramage.
The Remuneration Committee met four times in 2011.
Directors' attendance record
The following table shows the attendance at the meetings of the Board of Directors during the year:
Meetings Meetings
held attended
Number Number
C J Nicholl 14 13
E M Yeatman 14 14
A P Finlay 11 10
M R Bateman 98
P I T Edwards 99
A S Holmes 14 10
P R Selway 14 12
J C Ramage 14 12
Communications with shareholders
The Board aims to keep shareholders informed of all major developments concerning the Company. Information is
communicated as follows:
 The release of announcements, trading updates and interim financial statements through the Regulatory News
Service and on the Company's website;
 The annual report and financial statements which are sent to all registered shareholders; and
 Notices of all meetings of shareholders are sent to all registered shareholders.
12 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report 2011