 48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Audit Committee Chairman's report
Our members 
I took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 
Nicholas George on 31 October 2012 and wish to thank 
him for his chairing of the Committee over the past three 
years. Christopher Keljik ceased to be a member of the 
Committee when he stepped down from the Board on 
31 December 2012 and I would also like to thank him for 
his contribution to the work of the Committee. 
Attendance for scheduled 2012 meetings is shown 
below:
Committee members in 2012
Meetings
Member Eligible to attend Attended
Sean Collins
1
(Chairman) 2 2
Nicholas George 5 5
Christopher Keljik 5 5
Alexander Waugh 5 5
Note
1 Sean Collins joined the Committee on 1 September 2012.
In addition to the scheduled meetings in the year, there 
were also a number of ad hoc meetings. Although not 
members of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and Head of 
Internal Audit, attend each meeting, as does the lead 
audit partner from our external auditor, who is not 
present when we discuss their performance and/or 
remuneration. Senior management from the Group's 
financial function are also normally invited to attend.
The Board believes that between them the members of 
the Committee have broad commercial knowledge and 
significant business experience. The Board has 
determined that both Nicholas George and I have recent 
relevant financial experience as required by the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
After each Committee meeting, I report to the Board on 
the main issues that the Committee has discussed.
Our role
Our terms of reference are available on request from the 
Company Secretary and on the Group's website at
www.millenniumhotels.com/corporate/investor-centre
External audit
KPMG Audit Plc has been the Company's auditor since 
1996. We consider the appointment and re-appointment 
of the external auditor and review their terms of 
appointment and negotiate fees on behalf of the 
Company prior to making recommendations and re-
appointment through the Board to the shareholders to 
consider at each annual general meeting.
We are responsible for reviewing the independence
and objectivity of the external auditor and have reported 
to the Board that we consider that the auditor's 
independence and objectivity has been maintained. We 
consider that the external auditor retain its independence 
on the basis of comparing the present audit to non-audit 
service fees which in accordance with Company policy 
restricts the engagement of KPMG in relation to non-
audit services. 
The external auditor is required to rotate its lead partner 
every five years and other partners that are responsible 
for the Group and subsidiary audits every seven years. 
The lead audit partner, Stephen Masters, currently 
responsible for our audit is completing his second year.
We agree the detailed scope of the external audit prior 
to the commencement of the work and review the 
scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
Given its performance and the cost effectiveness of the 
service it provides, we do not consider it necessary this 
year to require the external auditor to tender for the 
audit. We will continue to review this, particularly in view 
of the recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code.
Details of fees paid to KPMG and its associates are 
shown in note 6 to the accounts.
To analyse audit effectiveness, the Committee meets 
with management to discuss the performance of the 
external auditor without them being present. Separate 
meetings are also held with the external auditor without 
the presence of any member of executive management.  49 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Performance Consolidated financial statements Further information
Governance
Audit Committee Chairman's report Company financial statements
Internal audit
We monitor and review the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function; agree its annual work plan and 
review whether the function has the proper resources to 
enable it to satisfactorily complete such work plans. We 
review status reports from Internal Audit and consider 
management's response to any major finding, providing 
support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required 
and ensure that the function obtains free and 
unrestricted access to all Group activities, records, 
property and personnel necessary to fulfill its 
agreed objectives.
The Head of Internal Audit produces a risk based 
Global Internal Audit work plan of hotel audits and 
function by region and reports on regional and global 
patterns that affects the Group as well as specific issues 
of interest in relation to systems and controls.
Internal controls and risks
We are responsible for reviewing, and conduct an 
annual review of, the effectiveness of the Group's 
system of internal control and risk management 
procedures. 
Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, 
we review the Group's risk management strategy 
to ensure that any required remedial action on any 
identified weaknesses is taken. This includes a quarterly 
review of the risk register which contains the significant 
risks faced by the Group and identifies their potential 
impact and likelihood. Where specific actions are agreed 
to mitigate risks to a level deemed acceptable, these are 
agreed within specific timeframes for delivery and are 
monitored closely until fully implemented. 
The system of internal controls audited by Internal 
Audit (and commented on by the external auditor from 
time to time) encompass all controls including those 
relating to financial reporting processes, operational and 
compliance controls and those relating to risk 
management processes.
We ensure that arrangements are in place for 
employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about 
possible fraud risk or wrong doing in financial reporting 
or other matters. Where a whistleblowing incident 
occurs, this is investigated by Internal Audit on a 
confidential basis and in a proportionate manner. 
Appropriate actions are recommended and undertaken 
which are reported to the Committee. 
Financial reporting
We monitor the integrity, prior to submission to 
the Board, of periodic financial statements, annual 
accounts, reports to shareholders and any other public 
announcement concerning the Group's financial position, 
corporate governance statements and statements on 
the Group's system of internal controls and report our 
views to the Board to assist in its approval of the results 
announcements and the annual report.
What we have done
We reviewed and agreed a revised policy during the year 
on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor. The 
updated policy is consistent with the Auditing Practices 
Board's Ethical Standards No.5 - Non Audit Services. 
The policy is aimed at ensuring that the provision of non 
audit services does not have an impact on the external 
auditor's independence and objectivity. Our policy also 
identifies some types of engagement that the external 
auditor must not undertake. It requires that individual 
engagements above a certain fee level may only be 
undertaken with the appropriate authority of the 
Committee. We receive regular reports on the non-audit 
fees being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit 
fees periodically. The majority of non-audit work 
undertaken by KPMG during the year related to tax 
related services where it was more cost effective to 
utilise their services. A copy of the policy is available, on 
request, from the Company Secretary and on the 
Group's website.
www.millenniumhotels.com/corporate/investor-centre
We have held regular private meetings with the Head of 
Internal Audit to complement the reports and 
discussions at Audit Committee meetings and to ensure 
that appropriate action is taken on issues arising from 
reports, including monitoring management's 
responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of 
the internal auditors. 
We have also considered the performance of the 
Internal Audit function and have carried out a review 
with the purpose of improving its effectiveness. As a 
result, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has been 
appointed in a co-sourcing capacity to improve the 
risk-based approach to internal audit that we are seeking.
During the year we carried out a review and revised the 
whistleblowing policy to enhance confidentiality. 50 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Audit Committee Chairman's report continued Audit Committee Chairman's report continued
In addition to the above we reviewed, analysed, 
discussed and promoted action plans to tackle various 
risks pertinent to our industry and operations during the 
year. These included: an enhanced global training 
programme for anti-bribery and developing risk 
mitigation tools pertinent to the same, supporting new 
training for UK and EU competition law; approving 
development plans for certain properties under asset 
management risk; adopting preliminary mitigation plans 
to address IT risks; enhancing PCI security generally; 
obtaining improved coverage for cyber insurance; 
achieving ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for one of our 
UK operations (with the intention of rolling out best 
practice nationally in 2013 and sharing best practice 
globally); and developing a standardised set of global 
operational procedures.
We also monitored tax based restructuring and the 
disclosure of asset values and received updates on the 
Bribery Act compliance, policies and processes to 
ensure that the procedures in place are adequate, as 
well as reports on material litigation facing the Group, 
treasury matters, ethics and whistleblowing, health and
safety and the environment. 
We reviewed: the inter-company charges and the 
accounting treatment of our associates, such as CDL 
Hospitality Trusts, the controls around significant capital 
expenditure projects, the impairment policy, the Group's 
approach to taxation, going concern reports and the 
annual report, together with half year and quarterly 
results for recommendation to the Board.
The Committee is increasing its focus on corporate 
governance matters and has considered the implications 
for the Group of the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Effectiveness
During the year, we carried out, through an externally 
facilitated evaluation conducted by Linstock, an 
effectiveness review of the Committee which concluded 
that the Committee was effective in terms of our 
expertise and use of our time; further that we had been 
provided with sufficient resources to carry out our 
duties. We have agreed the following priorities for 2013:
 Establishing a shortlist of annual objectives.
 Increased questioning of external audit.
 More engagement with senior management of key 
functions, including presentations by Treasury, IT and 
HR at meetings of the Committee.
 Improving the effectiveness of internal audit.
Sean Collins
Chairman of the Audit Committee
21 February 2013
What we have done continued