 MINORPLANET SYSTEMS PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
18
As an AIM quoted company (the Company de-listed from the Official List and was re-admitted to AIM on 10
November 2005), Minorplanet Systems plc is not required to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code.
However, the Board continues to support the highest levels of corporate governance and are committed to
applying these principles in a sensible and pragmatic manner.
1. Directors
The Board leads and controls the Company.
The Board of Directors currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, two non-executive Directors and two
executive Directors. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and any
relationship, business or otherwise, which could materially interfere with the exercising of independent judgement.
Mr D G Perry is considered to be the senior independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors
have a breadth of successful commercial and professional experience.
The Board meets for regular business each month and where necessary, for any additional matters arising between
Board Meetings. It has agreed a schedule of matters which require full Board discussion and approval. Detailed
management accounts, budgets, forecasts and executive reports are submitted to all Directors in the week before
a Board Meeting allowing them sufficient review time. This allows them to bring an independent judgement to bear
on issues such as strategy, performance and standards of conduct. The executive Directors meet senior managers
formally on a regular basis, and are closely involved in all major business decisions and important areas of internal
control.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a
procedure whereby any Director, wishing to do so in furtherance of his duties, may take independent professional
advice at the Company's expense.
All members of the Board are subject to the re-election provisions of the Articles, which require each Director to
stand for re-election every three years. In accordance with the provisions of the Articles, any Director appointed by
the Board shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting where such Director shall retire from
office and be eligible for reappointment. Accordingly Mr D G Perry, Mr R Hopkin, Mr L McBride and Mr A Walker
will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The
record of attendance at Board Meetings is set out overleaf.
2. Board Committees
The Board has appointed three committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, each with defined constitution
and terms of reference.
2.1 Directors' Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of three non-executive Directors, Mr A Walker (Chairman), Mr D G Perry
and Mr L McBride. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy and
determines, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for the executive Directors and senior
executives. The report of the Remuneration Committee is contained on pages 11 to 17.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least twice a year and at other times as necessary. 
Corporate Governance
59801_Text  19/12/05  2:36 pm  Page 18 MINORPLANET SYSTEMS PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
19
2.2 Directors' Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee consists of three non-executive Directors, Mr D G Perry (Chairman), Mr L McBride
and Mr A Walker. The Nomination Committee convenes at the request of the Chairman. During the financial
year the Committee has been convened on one occasion, to consider the appointment of Mr T J Donovan as a
Director. It was considered that Mr T J Donovan had a wealth of experience and his appointment would
significantly strengthen the Board. 
2.3 The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises three non-executive Directors, Mr L McBride (Chairman), Mr D G
Perry and Mr A Walker. The Committee meets twice a year and forms an important part of the Company's
control framework. The Committee regularly reviews the adequacy of internal controls, accounting policies and
financial reporting as well as reviewing the interim and annual results. Meetings are attended by the Chief
Executive, Group Finance Director, senior financial management and the external auditors.
2.4 Attendance Record
Since the previous report, the Directors attended the following meetings:
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings
(40 in the period) (2 in the period) (1 in the period) (1 in the period)
Mr D G Perry 38 2 1 1
Mr T J Donovan (appointed 1 October 2004) 37 2 1 -
Mr C E Alexander (resigned 20 April 2005) 18 1 - 1
Mr J D Meltham (resigned 30 June 2005) 30 2 1 -
Mr J Keating (resigned 5 October 2004) - - - -
N.B. Mr R Hopkin, Mr L McBride and Mr A Walker were appointed to the Board on 13 October 2005.
3. Accountability and Audit
The Company's Annual Report includes a Chairman's Statement, a Chief Executive's Review and a Financial
Review, which together provide a detailed view of its financial position. These are regarded as providing a balanced
assessment of the Company's position and prospects.
A statement of Directors' responsibilities, a statement on going concern and the Directors' review of internal control
are set out in subsequent paragraphs.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function and concluded that it was not appropriate, having
considered the size of the Group. 
4. Internal Control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
59801_Text  19/12/05  2:36 pm  Page 19 MINORPLANET SYSTEMS PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
20
The Board has put in place an organisational structure and framework of controls to identify and manage the
business risks faced by the Group. The Board continues to review the effectiveness of the internal control
procedures, with all significant findings or identified risks considered in detail and appropriate action taken.
The principal elements of the Group's internal control systems include:
  Establishing a well defined organisational structure with clear lines of accountability and delegation of
authorities from the Board.
  A comprehensive annual budgeting system, integrating both financial and operational budgets with formal
identification and assessment of business and financial risks inherent in each operating area.
  Regular consideration by the Board of actual results compared with budgets and forecasts and monitoring of
capital expenditure programmes. Preparation of revised forecasts on a regular basis.
  Confirmation to the Board of any changes in business, operational, compliance or financial risk by local
management in each operating area.
  Clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital and other areas of expenditure, established by the Board.
  A formal schedule of matters specifically referred to the Board for decision.
  Authority levels delegated to the boards of each subsidiary.
5. Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and with private investors at the
Annual General Meetings. The Company seeks to ensure that all shareholders are kept informed about the
Company and its activities. Annual reports and financial statements and interim reports are sent to shareholders
and there is frequent dialogue with institutional investors including presentations following such anouncements and
as requested throughout the year. Directors are accessible and welcome discussions with and respond to enquiries
from shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting is a forum for shareholders' participation with the opportunity to meet and question
Board members.
6. Going Concern
The Directors have considered the appropriateness of adopting the  going concern' basis in preparing the financial
statements. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these annual financial statements.
Corporate Governance (continued)
59801_Text  19/12/05  2:36 pm  Page 20 MINORPLANET SYSTEMS PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
21
7. Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group at the end of the financial year and of the
profit or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Company and Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
By order of the Board
Robert H. Bywell
Company Secretary
19 December 2005
59801_Text  19/12/05  2:36 pm  Page 21