 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2011
financial statements corporate governance review of the year
corporate governance / 11  
corpor Ate governA nce
Introduction
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders 
for the good corporate governance of the Group. The 
principles of corporate governance are set out in the 
Financial Reporting Council's revised Combined Code on 
corporate governance issued in 2006. Under the rules of 
the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) the Group is not 
required to comply with the Code and the Board considers 
that the size of the Group does not warrant compliance 
with all of the Code's requirements but has voluntarily 
adopted appropriate sections of the Combined Code.
Principles of the combined code
the Board
The Board comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Jos -Luis 
V zquez, the non-executive chairman, Richard Alden and 
five non-executive directors, Rafael Mart n Sanz, Javier 
Casanueva, Javier Herrero, Carlos Vizcayno and Francis 
Coles. The non-executive directors are independent of 
management. 
Non-executive directors are appointed on a contract with 
a three-month notice period. The terms and conditions 
of the appointment of the non-executive directors are 
available for inspection from the company secretary. 
Executive directors are appointed on contracts with a 
12-month notice period. All directors are subject to re-
election every three years. Directors appointed during the 
year are subject to re-election by the shareholders at the 
first opportunity after their appointment. The directors 
who are subject for re-election in the coming year are 
Jos -Luis V zquez and Rafael Mart n Sanz. Biographies for 
each director can be found on the Company's website. 
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved 
to it for decision. All directors have access to the advice 
and services of the company secretary, who is responsible 
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with. If required, the directors are entitled to 
take independent advice, and if the Board is informed 
in advance the cost of the advice will be reimbursed 
by the Group. To discharge its governance function 
effectively, the board has laid down rules for its own 
activities in a governance process policy. Responsibility for 
implementing this policy is placed on the chief executive 
officer. This policy covers:  
the conduct of members at meetings  	
the cycle of board activities and the setting of agendas  	
the provision of timely information to the board  	
board officers and their roles  	
board committees, their tasks and composition  	
qualifications for board membership and the process of  	
the nomination committee 
the evaluation and assessment of board performance  	
the remuneration of non-executive directors  	
the process for directors to obtain independent advice  	
the appointment and role of the company secretary  	
approval of the annual budget and the regular update  	
of forecasts
Board meetings are scheduled to take place once every 
two months, with additional meetings to attend to urgent 
matters. The respective attendance record of each director 
during the year was as follows: 
Directors' attendance
Board
Meetings
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Jos -Luis V zquez 7 7        
Rafael Mart n Sanz 7 7        
Javier Casanueva 6 7        
Javier Herrero 5 7 1 2    
Carlos Vizcayno 6 7        
Francis Coles 7 7 2 2    
Richard Alden 6 7        
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chief 
Executive Officer describes to the Board how the expected 
outcome and goals are intended to be delivered through 
regular business plans, which also encompass an 
assessment of the Group's risks. During the year, the Board 
receives updates on progress towards these outcomes 
through actual and forecasted results. 
The Chief Executive Officer is obliged to review and discuss 
with the Board all strategic projects or developments and 
all material matters currently or prospectively affecting the 
Group and its performance. This key dialogue specifically 
includes any materially under-performing business 
activities, and material matters of a social responsibility, 
environmental or ethical nature. 
The Board also sets out how the Chief Executive Officer's 
performance will be monitored and recognises that, in 
the multitude of changing circumstances, judgement will 
always be involved. The systems set out by the board are 
designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve the goals. They provide reasonable, 
rather than absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.  mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2011 12 / corporate governance 
corpor Ate governA nce
- continued
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the 
Group's affairs:
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee, the report of 
which is on page 13, comprised the following non-executive 
directors:
Richard Alden (Chairman)
Javier Casanueva  
Carlos Vizcayno  
The remuneration committee is responsible for the terms and 
conditions and remuneration of the executive directors and 
senior management and the granting of share options to the 
Group's executive directors and employees. The Remuneration 
Committee may consult external agencies when ascertaining 
market salaries. The chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
will be available at the AGM to answer any shareholder 
questions.
Audit Committee
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following 
non-executive directors:
Francis Coles (Chairman)  
Javier Herrero
Biographies detailing the respective qualifications of the 
Audit Committee members are available for viewing on our 
website. The board considers that the membership of the 
Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant 
financial experience to fulfil its duties. 
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to 
undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the 
company secretary, and all other employees. The committee 
may take legal or professional advice when it believes it 
necessary to do so. 
The Committee meets as required, but not less than two times 
a year. Other directors may also attend committee meetings 
by invitation, but the committee also meets privately for 
discussions with the external auditors who attend all its 
meetings.  
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
monitor the integrity of the Group's financial statements;  	
review the Group's internal financial controls and risk  	
management systems; and
oversee the Group's relationship with the external auditors.  	
The main activities of the committee in the year ended 31 
March 2011 were:
assessing the effectiveness of the significant financial  	
reporting issues related to the preparation of the Group's 
financial statements;
assessing the effectiveness of the systems established to  	
identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-
financial risks;
monitoring the integrity of the Group's internal financial  	
controls;
reviewing with the external auditors the findings of their  	
work and the effectiveness of the external audit process; 
reviewing arrangements for staff of the Group to raise  	
concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting of other matters; 
reviewing the need for, and the feasibility of, an internal audit  	
function; and
reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external  	
auditor.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group's 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve the Group's strategic objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the 
Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group. The process has been in place for the full year 
under review and up to the date of approval of the Report and 
Financial Statements. The Board regularly reviews the process.
The key elements of the risk management processes and system 
of internal control procedures include:
a clear organisational structure and lines of responsibility;  	
the identification through reporting procedures of major  	
financial, commercial, legal and operational risks;
the operation of a comprehensive budgeting and financial  	
reporting system and the comparison of actual results 
against budget;
the regular updates of budgets, cash flow forecasts and  	
performance targets, which is reviewed by the Board; and
the authorisation and monitoring of investment policy,  	
acquisition and disposal proposals, and major capital 
expenditure.
The key processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness 
of the system of internal controls include the following:
the review of the results of the risk assessment;  	
review of the actual results against budget and results of the  	
investigation of material differences for the period; and
the review of issues raised by the external auditors.   	