 47 Strategic Report Governance Financial
 
Assurance 
In line with  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors' and the revised C.2.1, the Board performs a formal annual 
assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control, covering all material controls including 
financial, operational and compliance controls, and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report  
and Accounts.  
To support the previously reported redesign of the internal control questionnaire, a more robust exercise was carried out 
to gather evidence to support the responses submitted by the businesses. The feedback from this exercise has been used 
to improve and strengthen the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the 
group and to implement other procedural improvements.  
These activities are monitored at executive level to ensure that control changes are implemented appropriately and that 
they are effective. The Head of Internal Audit oversees the application of control environment improvements and attends 
each Audit Committee meeting to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the group's internal controls and the 
results of the internal audit process. 
Features of the internal control and risk management systems that ensure accuracy and reliability of financial reporting 
include: a culture of good governance, integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility; group level policies and 
procedures to support the business by providing an operational internal control framework; clearly defined responsibilities, 
delegated in accordance with the group's delegated authorities and authorisation registers; and a group function with  
a team of specialist resources. 
David Jenkins 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
Nomination Committee 
Chairman's introduction 
As Chairman of the Nomination Committee my role is to ensure that the group maintains a Board which is appropriately 
balanced and, as a unit, functions as efficiently and effectively as possible. 
The Committee is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered to be appropriately 
experienced to fulfil their duties. 
Who is on the Nomination Committee? 
Chairman  Roger Matthews 
Committee members David Jenkins 
 Crawford Gillies 
 Larry Hirst  
 Terry Morgan (until 31 October 2013) 
 Graeme Potts (until 9 July 2013) 
 Jack Boyer (from 1 June 2013) 
What is the key purpose of the Nomination Committee? 
The Nomination Committee reviews and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the 
appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness. 
The Nomination Committee also ensures that appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, Executive 
Directors and the group's senior management are also kept under review.  48
Mitie Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Nomination Committee 
 
What are the key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee? 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for: 
  succession planning; 
  identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies; 
  considering the adequacy of the skills, experience and diversity represented on the Board; 
  leading the process for appointments to the Board; and 
  satisfying itself and the Board that there are sufficient plans in place for orderly succession for future appointments. 
The Nomination Committee's terms of reference are available at http://www.mitie.com/documents/investors/corporate-
governance/committee_terms_of_reference.pdf. 
What were the key activities during the year? 
The Committee reviewed the composition and chairmanship of the Board and each of its Committees and determined 
that all Non-Executive Directors remained independent in character and judgement. The Committee continues to be 
satisfied that its current composition is appropriate, having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and 
experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business. 
The Committee has worked with Inzito, an executive search firm, to support appointments to Non-Executive Director 
positions made in 2013. Inzito have also supported Mitie in the identification of candidates for a small number of senior 
positions below Executive Director level, but the Company has no other connection with this firm. 
The process followed is set out below: 
  the Committee provides Inzito with an agreed candidate specification; 
  lnzito conducts a candidate search; 
  the Chairman and Senior Independent Director review the candidate list and interview a pre-determined short list; 
  the Committee recommends the appointment to the Board. 
A detailed and personally tailored induction programme is undertaken for Non-Executive Directors joining the Board  
in line with Mitie's standard procedure. 
How many times did the Nomination Committee meet? 
During the financial year, the Committee met four times. 
 Attendance 
Number of meetings held in year:  4 
Roger Matthews  4 
David Jenkins 4 
Crawford Gillies  4 
Larry Hirst 4 
Terry Morgan
1
 1 of 2 
Graeme Potts
1
 2 of 2 
Jack Boyer
3
 2 of 3 
Notes: 
1 Terry Morgan retired from the Board on 31 October 2013. 
2 Graeme Potts retired from the Board on 9 July 2013. 
3 Jack Boyer was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013. 
Our policy on diversity 
Mitie welcomes, as a general principle, the updated Code requirement to consider diversity at Board level and sees this  
as an opportunity to consider the appropriateness of our approach to managing the diversity of ideas and skills on the 
Board. The Board believes that setting aspirational diversity targets could drive a practice that is not necessarily in  
the best interests of the organisation and that the issue of Board diversity should be tackled in a manner that considers  
all areas of the diversity agenda such as skills and experience, as well as gender, race, disability or other aspects of 
difference. Diversity of candidates at Board level has to be balanced against the required skills and experience and  
should be a consideration in any recruitment, succession planning and talent management process. 
During the past year, the group's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy has been reviewed and updated to include specific 
references to boardroom diversity. The Board has been responsible for further driving the diversity agenda throughout 
the organisation in a number of ways, including the development of divisional diversity forums. With specific targets 
around gender, race and age, these business-specific diversity forums reflect the Board's commitment to diversity, 
through their work to implement bespoke diversity action plans, which support the goals of those business areas. 
   49 Strategic Report Governance Financial
 
The Board is keen to ensure that all aspects of diversity are considered in the promotion, retention and development  
of the talent pipeline throughout the group as well as at Board level, and a suite of diversity policies and procedures  
have been cascaded and embedded throughout the group. Further details of the diversity of Mitie's people can be found  
in the sustainability report which is available on the Company's website at www.mitie.com. 
Since the fourth quarter of 2012, we have been monitoring our workforce data, by salary banding, to understand progress 
made on employee diversity, with regard to gender, age, disability and ethnicity. 
Particular achievements to date include continued improvements in the percentage of women in the higher salary bands 
within the organisation. Additionally, the number of people employed in the 16-24 age group has also grown over the last 
year, as has the percentage of people employed aged 60 and over. 
Disability and ethnic minority percentages have remained stable over the same time period and these are particular areas 
of focus at this time. 
We work with a number of external search consultancies, none of which have any other connection with the Company.  
In addition, we have recently built a bespoke recruitment portal, which we use to create and publish vacancies, which are 
also posted to third party jobsites. In the past 12 months we have formalised our long-standing relationship with Remploy 
by signing a partnership agreement. Our relationship with Remploy provides work experience and employment 
opportunities for disabled people and those facing complex barriers to work. Additionally, in the past 12 months we have 
formed links with Pink Jobs (UK's largest LGBT job vacancies board). In effect this means that all external vacancies are 
now open to Pink Jobs and Remploy candidates. Additionally, we are working towards developing further partnerships 
with Leonard Cheshire and the Ethnic Jobsite. 
We have a long-standing relationship with Remploy and since 2006 more than 450 disabled people have been employed 
by Mitie. 
 
Roger Matthews 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
Remuneration Committee 
The Directors' remuneration report is set out at pages 50 to 67 and details the Remuneration Committee's activities 
during the year and its policy on remuneration. The Directors' remuneration report contains full details of any  
earnings that the Executive Directors are permitted to retain from their external appointments. The Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee will be available at the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions relating to the 
activities of the Remuneration Committee. 
Investment Committee 
Overview and Purpose 
The Investment Committee strengthens the group's governance framework and facilitates the internal approvals  
process by approving matters as delegated by the Board and referring recommendations for Board approval.  
The Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as chairman, and Group Finance Director, met eight times  
during the year and considered matters such as major bids and contracts, acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure  
and Mitie Model investments. 
Results Committee 
Overview and purpose 
The Results Committee assists the Board in approving matters such as Half-Yearly and preliminary results 
announcements, other routine, non-material announcements and shareholder communications. The Results Committee, 
which comprises the Chief Executive, as chairman, and Group Finance Director, met twice during the year. 
 
Male
Female
Male
Female
7-9 years
4-6 years
2-3 years
1-2 years
0-1 years
Board composition
%
Executive
Non-executive 0
33
67
100
Board tenure
1
0
1
1
5