 Business review The Morgan Crucible Company plc 27
We have continued to operate a consistent 
and systematic risk management process 
which follows the revised Turnbull guidance. 
We seek to ensure that:
a) all significant risks to Morgan Crucible have
been identified and prioritised;
b) systems of control are in place to manage
the risks; and
c) the effectiveness of these controls has been
measured and monitored. 
The Board reviews a formal risk report which
covers the following issues:
i) significant risks to the Group which have
been reviewed by the Executive Committee;
ii) the adequacy of the risk management
process; 
iii) assurances that internal controls are in place
to manage the risks; and
iv) confirmation that the process 
is ongoing.
We have operations in 31 countries worldwide
and we compete in numerous product and
service markets. We face various risk factors,
both internal and external, which could have a
material impact on long-term performance.
External risk factors include:
  global political and economic conditions;
  technology changes;
  foreign exchange movements;
  raw materials and energy; and
  legislation and regulation.
Internal risk factors include:
  reputation;
  pensions;
  competition;
  insurance;
  environmental health and safety;
  litigation;
  controls failure; and
  business continuity.
As described above, we seek to manage 
and mitigate risk and use insurance where 
this is cost effective. Our risk management
processes also help to identify business and
performance opportunities.
External risk factors
Global political and economic conditions
Our worldwide operations include activities in 
a number of developing countries. Whilst these
regions offer growth opportunities, business
activities in these areas expose us to economic,
political and business risks. The Group is subject
to varying legal and regulatory regimes in 
these areas, including those covering taxation,
environmental and other matters. Political risks
include the imposition of trade barriers,
expropriation of assets, changes in regulations,
wage controls and restrictions on the export 
of currency and the volatility of prices, taxes 
and currencies.
The diverse nature of our products and services
and the customers and markets served help to
mitigate the impact of any individual exposure
to economic conditions. However, some 36%
of our revenues are to customers in the USA and
thus we are particularly affected by economic
conditions in that region.
Business review (cont.)
Risk management Technology changes
We develop and launch new technologies and
products. Such development projects carry
business risks, including reputational risk, abortive
expenditure and potential customer claims
which may have a material impact on the
Group. Export control regulations may limit our
ability to transfer or share technology between
our sites in different countries.
Foreign exchange movements
We operate on a global basis, with a significant
proportion of our profits earned outside of the
UK. We have significant investments around the
world, with the greatest proportion being in the
USA. As such we are subject to translation risk
due to exchange rate movements between
world currencies which could adversely or
positively affect the Group's results. The Group
has entered into certain hedging arrangements
to help mitigate the impact of currency
fluctuations and the Group's relevant treasury
policies are summarised in the Financial review
on page 26.
Raw materials and energy
Our products use a range of raw materials 
and our operations require significant amounts
of energy. Volatility and increases in prices 
or scarcity of supply could have a material
impact on our business. Our raw materials are
sourced on the world market and in general
we have access to multiple sources of supply.
Where specific material properties require
particular sources of raw materials to be used,
the Group has processes in hand to bridge any
short-term interruption of supply and where
possible has identified alternative sources 
of supply.
Legislation and regulation
We are subject to varying laws and regulations
around the world. Changes in these could affect
the Group's business. Following the events now
referred to as 9/11, various governments, notably
the USA, have significantly increased their export
control regulations. Considerable effort has been
expended in the USA and Europe to ensure that
we are in compliance with these regulations.
Internal risk factors
Reputation
Our reputation with all stakeholders is
fundamental to the success of the Group. 
Failure to meet expectations in terms of the
products and services we provide, the way that
we do business or in our financial performance,
could have a material effect on the Group.
These risks are mitigated through:
  our focus on quality, with over 90% of our
production capacity now accredited to 
ISO 9001;
  our corporate responsibility programme,
including our Statement of Core Values; 
  our Ethics Policy and Internal Compliance
Reporting Helpline; and
  our systems of internal control and risk
management. 
Pensions
We operate a number of defined benefit
pension plans with the largest of these being 
in the UK and the USA. 
The pension plans are exposed to the risk 
of changes in interest rates, the value and
performance of investments, inflation and the
increasing longevity of members. As stated 
at the time of the disposal of the Magnetics
Division, the Group has now made a further
contribution to the UK schemes which currently
now show a small surplus. We will continue to
keep funding levels under review. 
The Group's main US defined benefit pension
scheme is overseen by The Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation which has powers to
apply to court to terminate the scheme if it
does not meet certain minimum solvency tests.
Were there ever to be a termination, the Group
would be required to meet the full cost of the
under-funded liabilities under the US scheme.
Competition
Given that we operate in highly competitive
markets, significant product innovations,
technical advances or increased price
competition could all affect the Group. 
In order to help ensure we remain competitive,
we work to minimise our cost base and invest
in research and development.
Insurance
Certain risks are transferred to insurers. 
Specialist third-party audits and internal
inspections, coupled with follow-up of any
corrective actions, help to ensure that major
insurable risks are adequately managed. 
The growth in our aviation and medical products
businesses has meant that this continues to be
an area of particular focus to ensure that our
products are consistently of the highest quality
and that contractual arrangements are clear. 
Environmental/health and safety
Our operations involve the normal
environmental and health and safety risks
associated with any manufacturing operation
such as spillage, noise, air and soil pollution and
so forth.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Risk management Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and
regulations relating to health, safety and the
environment around the world. Although we
believe that our operations are in compliance
with current regulation, violations of such laws
and regulations can lead to fines and penalties.
Specialist third-party and internal auditors make
regular site visits to ensure compliance with 
local regulations. An Environmental, Health 
and Safety Good Management Practices
Manual has been issued to sites worldwide.
Environmental, Health and Safety Managers
within each Division are tasked with ensuring 
that the practices outlined in the Manual 
are embedded in the manufacturing sites.
Litigation
From time to time and in the normal course 
of business, we are subject to certain litigation,
in particular in the USA. Provision for the
expected costs and liabilities are set out in 
note 22 to the accounts. If the liabilities arising
were significantly to exceed the amounts
provided for, our financial position could be
adversely affected. 
Controls failure
We operate internal controls as described in the
corporate governance report on pages 40 to 44.
With operations in 31 different countries
worldwide there has been a need to pay
particular attention to the auditing of internal
controls in some of the smaller sites which, given
their size, tend to have less segregation of duties.
As we continue to expand our manufacturing
footprint in lower-cost areas there is an increasing
proportion of Group revenues and profits coming
from countries that have different cultural and
business practice standards from our traditional
locations. Our risk-based internal audit
programme addresses this situation and develops
risk management strategies.
Business continuity
Business continuity plans are either fully
developed or in the course of development 
at all our sites. These plans describe how a 
site should respond to various risks and how
continuity of supply to our customers would be
maintained. In some cases there are possibilities
of short-term supply from an alternative site. 
The measures described, coupled with
appropriate insurance, help mitigate the 
effects of business interruption. A full review 
of these plans will be made during 2007.
Actions
During 2006 our internal audit function has
continued to use external professional auditors
to supplement internal resources in areas of the
Group's operations where language, culture
and location have made this a sensible option.
Risk-based internal audits have focused on
ensuring that internal control systems are
functioning correctly and are adequate for the
risks in the business. Such audits are therefore 
not limited to financial matters but also cover
operational and regulatory compliance matters.
The Director of Operational Risk has worked with
the Divisional Chief Executives and Divisional
Controllers to identify and implement best
practice across all our sites. The concepts of 
risk assessment and risk management continue
to be embedded throughout our various
activities, and managers at all levels of the
organisation are becoming more adept at 
using these approaches.
The Corporate Ethics Policy which was agreed
by the Board at the end of 2005 is available to
every Morgan Crucible employee worldwide.
This lays a foundation for the determination of
appropriate conduct globally. Our internal
controls are designed not only to protect 
the Company's assets but also to ensure
compliance with our Ethics Policy. In order to
assist with this, we have set up a Compliance
Helpline to enable any employee to seek 
advice or to report non-compliance. The Ethics
Policy and Compliance Helpline were featured
in the latest edition of the Company's
internal magazine, 360, which is published
in eight languages and distributed to all
employees worldwide.
During 2006 a Risk Management Committee was
formed comprising of the Chief Financial Officer,
the Director of Operational Risk and the
Company Secretary. This committee reviews the
full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a
Group, ensures that there are adequate systems
in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
Where necessary, the Risk Management
Committee will initiate action to improve the
systems and ensure compliance.
We believe that progression from compliance 
to integrated risk management, through
improved internal controls, is an essential step
in the continuous improvement of our business
processes for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Business review: Risk management The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29