 31
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
POLICY STATEMENT
The Group supports the Principles of Good Governance and the
Code of Best Practice (the Code ). Accordingly this report will
deal with the requirements of the Code and also of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of FSA Listing Rule 12.43A relating to Section 1 of
the Code. 
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF 
GOOD GOVERNANCE
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance
set out in section 1 of the Code. Further explanation is set out
below and in connection with directors' remuneration in the
directors' remuneration report.
BOARD CONSTITUTION AND PROCEDURES
John Morgan has held the position of Executive Chairman since
February 2001. Since that date the Company has acknowledged
that it has not had a clear division of the responsibility for
strategic and operational matters split between two people as
recommended in a Code principle.
The Board comprises three executives and four non executives.
All of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Jack
Lovell, are considered to be independent of management and
free from any business or other relationship which could materially
affect their independent judgement. Jack Lovell is a former
executive director and thus is not deemed independent under
the criteria laid down by the National Association of Pension
Funds. Bernard Asher is the senior independent director. The
composition of the Board satisfies the Code that the Board
should have a balance of executive and non-executive directors
in terms of number and relevant experience to enable it to have
effective leadership and control of the Group. It also ensures that
the decision making process cannot be dominated by any individual
or small group of individuals.
Code Principle A.6 requires that every director submits for re-election
at least every three years. The Articles of Association of the Company
reflect this Code provision. 
The Board met on ten scheduled occasions during the year in
addition ad hoc meetings were convened for particular purposes.
Overall attendance at the scheduled meetings totalled 83% for
the year with no individual director falling below an attendance
of 80%. The key purposes of the scheduled meetings were to
review all significant aspects of the Group's activities, supervise
the executive management and to make decisions in relation 
to those matters which are specifically reserved to the Board. 
A formal agenda for each meeting is agreed with the Chairman
and is circulated well in advance of the meeting to allow time 
for proper consideration with the Company Secretary being
responsible for the timeliness and quality of the information.
The Company conforms with the Code provision regarding
training facilities for directors on first appointment and subsequently
as necessary. Adequate provision for training is made annually
in an allocated training budget which also covers senior head
office personnel with specific professional responsibilities
relating to the proper management and conduct of a listed
company. There are agreed procedures by which directors are
able to take independent professional advice, at the expense of
the Company, on matters relating to their duties. For certain
purposes the Company Secretary is regarded as falling within
that category of advisers and has been instructed by the Board
to act accordingly. The Board has also resolved that any question
of the removal from office of the Company Secretary is a matter
to be considered by the Board as a whole.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established an audit and a remuneration committee.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The audit committee comprises Geraldine Gallacher, Jon Walden
and Bernard Asher, who has the Chair. Its duties include keeping
under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness
and the objectivity of the auditors. The committee may request the
attendance of any executive director and a representative of
the external auditors. The committee meets at least twice yearly.
During the current year the audit committee will be considering
the report entitled  Audit Committees - Combined Code
Guidance' published in January this year by the Financial
Reporting Council.
The auditors, Deloitte & Touche, have confirmed to the committee
that they have policies and safeguards in place to ensure that
they are independent within the meaning of all regulatory and
professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit
engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired. In particular,
they have rotated audit partners and key audit principals to the
extent required by the ICAEW's Additional Guidance on
Independence for Auditors. Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
32
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The remuneration committee comprises Geraldine Gallacher
as Chairman, Bernard Asher and Jon Walden. Three meetings
were held in the year to cover all elements of the directors'
remuneration. The committee has three independent directors
as recommended by the National Association of Pension Funds
representing the views of institutional investors.
A report to shareholders on directors' remuneration is shown
on pages 27 to 30.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Board considers that as it has a total of only seven members
it may consider itself to be  small' as provided for in the Code. 
It can therefore properly deal with certain matters collectively
which might otherwise have been delegated to a committee.
Accordingly, a nominations committee has not been established.
The Board's policy on appointments to it is that every Board
member should have the opportunity of individual meetings
with prospective candidates.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with
institutional shareholders whenever possible. It also endorses
the Code principles generally on the conduct of Annual General
Meetings including that it be used as an opportunity for effective
communication with private shareholders whose participation in
the proceedings is encouraged.
The Company has taken advantage of The Companies Act
1985 (Electronic Communications) Order 2000 allowing
communication with shareholders, where individual shareholders
so choose, in electronic format.
The Company's Registrars have now completed trials of system
software to facilitate electronic proxy voting. Although too late for
this year's Annual General meeting, this facility will be available
for all future meetings. Details of proxy votes submitted for this
year's Annual General Meeting will be available on the
Company's web-site.
The Company now makes announcements available on its web-site
as at the dates of release to the London Stock Exchange Regulatory
News Service. Further development of the web-site is planned
to enhance the timely delivery of information to institutional
and private shareholders, sector analysts and the financial and
trade media.
INTERNAL CONTROL STATEMENT
All procedures necessary to implement  Internal Control:
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' were put in place
in 1999. These procedures have been in place for the year
under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual
Report and Accounts. These procedures have been regularly
reviewed and have been subject to further development and
refinement and this report therefore follows an approach of full
compliance throughout the year with Code Principle D.2. The
Board has acknowledged that it has overall responsibility for
the Group's system of internal control and for ongoing review
of its effectiveness. The internal control system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve certain
business objectives. It can only provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board has reserved specific responsibility to itself for the
formulation of the risk management strategy of the Group. 
A formal process is in place through which the Company
identifies the significant risks attached to its strategic objectives,
confirms the control strategy for each risk and identifies the
appropriate early warning mechanisms. A risk management
policy document has been adopted by the Board setting out
the Board's role and responsibilities and its overall approach 
to management and acceptance of risk. Internal control and
risk management systems are embedded in the operations of
the business.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The Board recognises that an essential part of the responsibility
for running a business is the effective safeguarding of assets,
the proper recognition of liabilities and the accurate reporting
of profits. The Group has a comprehensive system flowing
through each Division for monthly reporting to the Board. 33
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
INVESTMENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE APPRAISAL
There are clear policies, detailed procedures and defined levels
of authority in relation to investment, capital expenditure, significant
cost commitments and asset disposals.
COMPUTER SYSTEMS
The Group has established controls and procedures over the
security of data held on computer systems.These controls and
procedures are reviewed within the rolling examination programme
described below under  internal audit'.
CONTROLS OVER CENTRAL FUNCTIONS
A number of the Group's key functions, including treasury, risk
management and insurance are dealt with centrally. Each of
these functions have detailed procedure manuals.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Board continues to review the need or otherwise for an
internal audit function and remains of the opinion that such 
a function is not essential. Instead, led by specialist central
Group personnel, there is a rolling programme of peer group
examination in which selected staff participate in the examination
and review of the practices and procedures of Divisions other
than their own. It is felt that this programme not only provides
many of the benefits to be derived from an internal audit function
but also assists in the professional development of the individual
staff concerned whilst at the same time identifying and providing
a mechanism for the cross-fertilisation of ideas and best practice
throughout the Group.
ANNUAL REVIEW
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the
system of internal financial control for the year ended 31 December
2002 and for the period to the date of this report. The review was
performed on the basis of the criteria set out in the Guidance 
for Directors  Internal Control and Financial Reporting' issued in
December 1994. The process included a formal review conducted
by the Board of a consolidated report of the Divisional Risk
Framework reviews together with the Group Risk Framework
document which is re-appraised and updated annually. In
addition, the Board has also reviewed the results of the internal
control peer reviews referred to above.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Company has throughout the year been in compliance
with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules
issued by the Financial Services Authority.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement
at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a
reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt a going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.