 52 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 52 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Corporate Governance Report
Chairman's letter
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code ) states that a board's role is 
to provide entrepreneurial leadership for 
a company in setting its strategic aims. 
APR Energy has a well-developed strategy 
and planning process that involves the 
Board throughout the year. The Company's 
strategy is the subject of regular review that 
involves both the Management T eam and 
Board members in analysis and discussion. 
With a robust strategy and business plan, 
the Board recognised that the acquisition of 
the GE power rental business provided an 
opportunity to accelerate the achievement of 
this strategy. That was a decision reviewed 
in detail by the Board and executed 
successfully. We are pleased to welcome 
the GE-appointed observer to our Board 
meetings.
The Code also aims to promote effective 
board decision-making. The Company is 
committed to high standards of corporate 
governance, and seeks to apply voluntarily 
the Code, as it demonstrates commitment 
to the continuing maturing of the Company's 
corporate governance structures, and 
maintains the Company's ability to seek 
Premium Listing at the appropriate time.
During the year, the Chairman, alongside 
the Chief Executive Officer, enhanced the 
Company's processes to maximise the 
Board's performance, including ensuring 
that meetings are scheduled to allow 
adequate time for discussion of each 
agenda item at the relevant meeting; that 
reporting packs are distributed in advance of 
each meeting; and that board discussions 
are held in a collaborative atmosphere, with 
open discussion allowing for questions, 
scrutiny and constructive challenge. 
T ogether with well-constituted board 
with a clear division of responsibilities 
between Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, these enhancements enabled 
well-informed decisions to be made on the 
basis of collective debate and deliberation, 
and, once a decision has been made, 
effective and ongoing board oversight and 
supervision.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board, has also sought to improve 
the Group's governance framework and 
regularly reviews its risk management and 
internal control processes. Further details 
can be found on page 47.
During the year, the Company's governance 
framework has been enhanced to take 
into account the changes introduced by 
the September 2012 edition of the Code 
and the commencement of The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (the Regulations ). The 
most significant reporting changes have 
been to the Directors' Remuneration Report, 
together with the introduction of a binding 
vote on the Directors' remuneration policy at 
the Company's 2014 AGM. 
This additional reporting also includes the 
statement made by the Directors on page 
74 that they consider the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and that 
it provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company's 
performance, business model and strategy. 
Additional disclosures in respect of how 
our Audit Committee addresses significant 
issues within the Annual Report and 
Accounts can be found on pages 62 to 65.
Ensuring we do the right things in the right 
way requires the right leadership. We believe 
that the Board and its committees have the 
required balance of impartiality, skills and 
experience to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. 
Mike Fairey 
Chairman
25 March 2014
The Company is 
committed to high 
standards of corporate 
governance and seeks to 
apply voluntarily the UK 
Corporate Governance 
Code Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 53 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors' Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 53 
One of the Board's primary responsibilities 
is to ensure that the Company is run in the 
best long-term interests of the Company's 
shareholders, with appropriate regard also 
to its wider stakeholders. This can only 
be achieved if the activities of the Group 
are supported by appropriate governance 
processes applied across the Group. These 
processes are illustrated below and in the 
individual Committee reports.
The Company is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance, and 
therefore seeks to comply with the Code on 
a voluntary basis, as it reflects the continuing 
maturing of the Company's corporate 
governance structures. 
During the year, the Company took a 
number of steps to address these areas 
in respect of the internal control and risk 
management framework required to achieve 
full compliance with the Code, including the 
establishment of an Internal Audit function in 
late 2013. 
The Board is actively investigating its current 
status as a standard listed company. It has 
taken the steps, including establishing a 
taskforce headed by the Senior Independent 
Director to understand the requirements 
necessary to achieve premium listing status.
Application of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
In September 2012 the Financial Reporting 
Council published the 2012 edition of the 
Code, which contains broad principles and 
specific provisions to help boards operate in 
the best interests of their companies. Given 
its standard listing, the Company is not 
required to comply fully with the Code. With 
a view to the future, the Company continues 
to voluntarily apply the Code. Through the 
financial year ended 31 December 2013, 
the Company complied with a majority of 
provisions of the Code.
At the year end, the areas where the 
Company did not comply include: 
l Provision B.1.2 - the Board does not 
comprise at least one-half in number 
(excluding the Chairman) of independent 
Non-Executive Directors;
l Provision B.1 - the Board, given its 
primarily supervisory role, has only one 
Executive Director;
l Provision B.2.1 - the Board acts as the 
Nomination Committee, and as such does 
not comprise a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors; and
l Provision B.3.1 - the Chairman of the 
Company is a member of the Audit 
Committee.
Matters reserved for the Board
There is a schedule of matters which are 
dealt with exclusively by the Board and on 
which it must make the final decision. These 
include approval of the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements; the Group's 
business strategy; the annual capital 
expenditure plan; major capital projects; 
major changes to the Group's management 
and control structure; material investments 
or disposals; risk management strategy; 
sustainability and environmental policies; the 
appointment or removal of Directors and the 
Company Secretary; and treasury policies.
Day-to-day management is the responsibility 
of the Executive Director and of the 
Management T eam.
The Board of Directors
The role of the Board
The Board and the Operating Board have 
clearly defined roles and responsibility levels 
for the governance of the Group. The Board 
is responsible for the Group's objectives 
and business strategy, including matters 
such as approval of business plans and 
budgets, capital structure, acquisitions and 
disposals, capital expenditures per defined 
limits, and significant compensation matters. 
In addition, the Board has responsibility 
for overseeing the establishment of a 
comprehensive risk management and 
internal control framework. The Non-
Executive Directors are encouraged and 
expected to challenge the Management 
T eam and each other constructively in the 
development of the Group's strategy.
The Operating Board has responsibility for 
reviewing and recommending to the Board 
business plans and budgets, monitoring 
the Group's performance against plans, 
approving investment programmes per 
defined limits and reviewing significant 
contracts and commitments. The Operating 
Board (the Board of APR Energy Holdings 
Limited, the immediate subsidiary of the 
Company) comprised the Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, as well as nominees from 
the Company's key shareholders.
Responsibilities are clearly separated 
between the Non-Executive Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer. The 
Chairman's primary role is to manage Board 
effectiveness and ensure that each Director 
fulfills his or her role effectively. The Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for executing 
the strategy as set by the Board and for 
leading the day-to-day activities of the 
Management T eam.
The Board is specifically responsible for: 
l guiding the Group's strategic aims, 
leading to its approval of the Group's 
strategy and its budgetary and business 
plans;
l approval of significant investments and 
capital expenditure;
l approval of annual and half-year results 
and interim management statements, 
accounting policies and, subject to 
shareholder approval, the appointment 
and remuneration of the external auditors;
l approval of the Group's dividend policy 
and the payment of interim and the 
recommendation of final dividends;
l changes to the Group's capital structure 
and the issue of any securities;
l establishing and maintaining the Group's 
risk appetite, system of internal control, 
governance and approval authorities; and
l monitoring executive performance and 
succession planning.
The role of the Management Team
The Management T eam, led by the 
Chief Executive Officer, has day-to-day 
responsibility and oversight of the primary 
operating and support functions of the 
Group, including operations, commercial, 
business development, marketing, finance, 
legal, compliance, human resources and IT . 
Biographies are provided on pages 56 to 57.
Governance