 The Group has a well established 
governance structure that has 
responsibility for the internal control 
systems and reviewing their effectiveness. 
The risk management process:
 	 provides a framework to identify, assess 
and manage risks, both positive and 
negative, to the Group's overall strategy 
and the contribution of its individual 
component divisions;
 	 gives business unit management formal 
tools to identify and manage risks in their 
day-to-day operations;
 	 allows Group Executive management 
to identify and manage the risks that are 
likely to have a more significant impact 
on the financial results and strategy and 
share common issues and solutions 
across the Group; and
 	 allows the Board to fulfil its governance 
responsibilities by making a balanced 
and understandable assessment of 
the operation of the risk management 
process and its outputs.
Responsibilities and actions
The Board:
 	 has overall responsibility for the Group's 
system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness;
 	 maintains full control and direction 
over appropriate strategic, financial, 
operational and compliance issues; and
 	 has put in place an organisational 
structure with formally defined lines  
of responsibility, delegated authorities 
and clear operating processes.
Risks
Risks and risk management
The Audit Committee: 
 	 has specific responsibility for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
control and risk management systems;
 	 is responsible for the identification, 
assessment and management of risk, 
including actions taken and processes 
adopted to do so;
 	 reviews and approves all financial 
information published by the Group; and
 	 reviews the internal audit programme, 
considers major findings of the internal 
audit investigations and reviews 
management's financial reporting  
and risk management.
Risk review process
Each division, plus the Group function, is 
required to make a formal review of risks to 
their business objectives, assess the impact 
and likelihood of the risk occurring and put 
in place mitigating actions, processes and 
systems to manage the risk.
Risks
Identify risks to business objectives on  
a bottom up basis: risks are described  
and categorised into Operational, Strategic 
and Financial risks in order to help define 
their precise nature and potential impact  
on the business.
Assessment 
Assess and quantify the potential impact 
on business objectives and determine 
the likelihood of the risk occurring. This is 
done on a  before' and  after' basis, where 
the impact of management controls is 
assessed in relation to the probability  
and severity of a risk.
Management
Take mitigating actions and implement 
systems to manage the likelihood and 
impact of the risk. Identify an individual  
with responsibility for each risk.
Monitoring and control
Risks are considered on a monthly basis  
at divisional level and formally updated 
twice a year. Management is encouraged 
to review the risk registers from other 
divisions to identify common issues and 
potential solutions.
Each divisional register, including the 
Group function register, is consolidated  
into a Group risk register.
The Group Executive Committee reviews 
the Group Risk Register twice a year, 
followed by the Group Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee reports in turn to the 
main Board. 
The internal audit function has 
responsibility for the monitoring of the risk 
management and internal control systems. 
Internal Audit report to management 
and the Audit Committee on the extent 
to which internal controls are adequately 
designed and implemented.
Risk Assessment Review
Identify
Assess Review
Mitigating actions
Group Executive
Committee
PLC Board
Audit Committee
Risk assessment and review
The Group has a well established 
governance structure that has 
responsibility for the internal control 
systems and reviewing their effectiveness. 
37
Financial review
Risks and risk management Principal risks of 2011 
During 201 1, the Group focused on the following key areas of risk:
Risk Assessment Management Year on year 
change
Economic conditions  
and austerity
Difficult economic conditions currently 
exist in Europe and North America. 
Whilst some of the Group's businesses 
have naturally defensive characteristics, 
some of the more discretionary parts of 
the business may be adversely affected 
by reduced economic activity.
Revenues in the Bus, Coach and 
Rail businesses in the UK and Spain 
may be affected by lower passenger 
demand; there is also some positive 
risk that the Group would benefit from 
the prospect of modal shift towards its 
forms of transport. In North America for 
example, school boards may reduce 
their transportation budgets, or look 
to shift provision to contractors like 
National Express. In Spain, the Group 
has continued to grow revenue and 
profit in conditions of sustained high 
unemployment and low GDP growth.
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks 
through proactive cost control, revenue 
management systems, the careful 
economic modelling of new and existing 
contracts, including sensitivities around 
expected growth rates, and through 
sharing risk with contracting parties.
Political and regulatory
The Group's businesses are subject 
to numerous laws in the jurisdictions 
in which they operate, regulating the 
operation of concessions, safety 
procedures, equipment specifications, 
employment requirements, 
environmental procedures and  
other operating issues.
Changes in political and regulatory 
environments can have a significant 
impact on regulated public transport 
operators, from adding significant cost 
to changing the fundamental nature of 
a market. For example, changes in UK 
government policy will result in material 
decreases in subsidies paid in 2012  
for fuel and senior citizen discounts. 
Changes to the UK Rail franchising  
regime are also expected.
The risk is reduced by maintaining close 
relationships with key stakeholders and 
ensuring that the economic advantages 
of our business models are fully 
understood and considered.
Ongoing risks
The following risks are key ongoing risks within the business: 
Risk Assessment Management Year on year 
change
Fuel cost
All of the Group's businesses are 
exposed to fuel costs - primarily Ultra 
Low Sulphur Diesel for buses and 
coaches. Fuel prices are subject to 
significant volatility due to economic, 
political and climate circumstances.
Fuel costs constitute approximately 9% 
of the Group's costs and, consequently, 
to the extent that price increases cannot 
be passed on to customers, increases 
in fuel costs will affect profitability.
The Group seeks to mitigate risks of 
increases in fuel costs by entering 
into fuel swaps and forward purchase 
contracts in line with the Group's 
hedging strategy discussed on page 36.
Insurance and claims
The Group's policy is to self-insure  
a number of potential claims within  
its business.
There is a risk that a successful claim or 
series of successful claims may result in 
substantial higher charges to profit and 
cash outflow than expected.
Throughout the business a strong 
safety culture prevails, led by the Board 
Safety & Environmental Committee. 
Where claims arise, they are managed 
by experienced claims handlers and 
professional advice is obtained in 
order to evaluate and minimise costs 
to the Group. It has also reduced self-
insurance values and increased external 
market coverage.
Risks
Principal risks and uncertainties
Outlined below are risks that have the potential to affect the Group's performance  
in a material way, which are monitored through the risk management processes.
38 Risk Assessment Management Year on year 
change
Credit risk
As contractual operations, the North 
American and Spanish businesses are 
exposed to the risk that customers are 
either late or unable to pay sums owed 
to the Group.
Payment terms and cash collections 
in North America are extremely good. 
In Spain, during 201 1 one principal 
urban council became slower to pay 
outstanding debts, prompted by issues 
related to local and federal elections, 
as well as financial constraints. The 
total days outstanding balance is not 
significantly higher than normal levels.
Receivables in each business are 
closely monitored, based on robust and 
thorough documentation; provisions 
are then made where appropriate on 
a prudent basis for a certain level of 
non-collection. This provision increased 
during the year to reflect the overall 
balance increase. Additional contractual 
terms for interest accrual and repayment 
of outstanding balances were agreed 
with the major debtors. We also 
anticipate the new federal government 
will provide credit funding to assist some 
degree of clearance of long term debt.
Currency
The Group's exposure to overseas 
earnings through its Spanish and North 
American operations creates a risk  
that movement in exchange rates  
may adversely impact translation of 
profit and cash flows together with 
Group gearing.
The potential impact is limited to the 
translation of cash flows and balance 
sheet assets and liabilities. The Group 
currently pays interest on mainly Sterling 
denominated debt. During 201 1 currency 
fluctuations were relatively small.
The Group uses limited overseas debt 
and currency swaps to reduce the 
impact and mitigate the risk. In addition, 
Management has flexibility to adjust 
its Group capital allocation decisions 
to focus on its highly cash generative 
UK businesses. The Board has also 
considered options for the Group in 
the event of a break up of the Eurozone 
and policies are in place to minimise 
exposure to this possibility.
 
Risk Assessment Management Year on year 
change
Contractual
Much of the Group's business is 
secured through winning contracts and 
concessions, particularly in its North 
American school bus business, in Spain 
and in UK Rail.
An inherent risk in contract bidding is 
that bid assumptions might prove to be 
incorrect. If the Group's significant bid 
assumptions prove to be incorrect, this 
could have an adverse effect on results 
of the operations and the Group's 
financial condition.
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk 
through careful economic modelling of 
new contracts, and by sharing revenue 
risk with the awarding body; for example 
with the DfT in UK Rail.
39
Financial review
Risks and risk management