 25 Arena Leisure Plc
Annual Report 2003
Corporate governance
There is commitment to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the group. The board confirms that throughout
the year ended 31 December 2003 the group has complied with
the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except
that non-executives are not appointed for specified periods. 
The board is accountable to the company's shareholders for good
governance and the statement set out below describes how the
principles identified in the Combined Code (appended to the 
listing rules) are applied by the group.
Directors
The board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Roger Withers,
three non-executive directors and two executive directors 
of which Ian Penrose is the Group Managing Director. All of 
the non-executive directors are considered by the board to 
be independent of management and free of any relationship
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement.
Biographies of the board members appear on page 21 of this
report. These indicate the high levels and range of business
experience which is essential to manage effectively a business 
of the size and complexity of the group. The group continues 
to experience rapid growth, and the board is aware of its
responsibilities to strengthen the board at appropriate times 
in the group's development.
The board meets at least 12 times each year, and more frequently
where business needs require, as has been the case since the last
annual report. The board has a schedule of matters reserved 
to it for decision and the requirement for board approval on 
these matters is communicated widely throughout the senior
management of the group. This includes matters such as
material capital commitments, commencing or settling major
litigation, business acquisitions and disposals, and appointments
to subsidiary company boards.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent
professional advice if necessary and at the company's expense.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the
company secretary.
The differing roles of Chairman and Group Managing Director
are acknowledged and defined in separate statements approved
by the board. The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct
board meetings and meetings of shareholders and to ensure 
that all directors are properly briefed in order to take a full 
and constructive part in board discussions. The Group Managing
Director is required to develop and lead business strategies 
and processes to enable the group's business to meet the
requirements of its shareholders.
The senior non-executive director is John Barnes and any
concerns relating to the executive management of the company,
or the performance of the other non-executive directors, can be
raised with him.
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the
provisions of the company's Articles of Association, to retire 
and seek election by shareholders at the next annual general
meeting. The articles also require that one third of the directors
retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the annual
general meeting. The directors required to retire will be those 
in office longest since their previous re-election and this will
usually mean that each director retires at least every three
years, although there is no absolute requirement to this effect. 
In order to comply with the Combined Code, but avoid the
expense of amending the company's articles to deal with this
single point, the board has resolved that each director will 
retire at least every three years, even if this is not strictly
required by application of the provisions of the articles.
Full details of directors' remuneration and a statement of the
company's remuneration policy is set out in the Remuneration
report appearing on pages 27 to 29. The members of the
Remuneration Committee and the principal terms of reference 
of the Committee appear on page 27. Executive directors 
abstain from any discussion or voting at full board meetings 
on Remuneration Committee recommendations, where the
recommendations have a direct bearing on their own
remuneration package. The details of each executive director's
individual package are fixed by the Committee in line with the
policy adopted by the full board.
Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee are M J Barnes
(Chairman), R D Withers, G T Parr and A H Parker Bowles. 
The Committee meets as required but not less than once a year.
Its responsibilities include reviewing the board structure, size
and composition, nominating candidates to the board to fill 
board vacancies when they arise, and recommending directors
who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election. 
The Committee also ensures that all board appointees undergo
training as appropriate.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least three times 
a year. It is comprised of R D Withers (Chairman), A H Parker
Bowles, G T Parr and M J Barnes. Meetings are attended by
senior representatives of the group's external auditors and
appropriate members of senior management. Amongst other
matters, the Committee considers the company's annual and
interim financial statements and any issues raised by the
auditors in relation to the financial statements, financial
systems and internal control within the group.  26 Arena Leisure Plc
Annual Report 2003
Communication
The company places a great deal of importance on communication
with its shareholders. The full report and accounts are sent to 
all shareholders and to other parties on request who have an
interest in the group's performance. Shareholders also may 
have direct access to the company, and the company responds 
to numerous letters and enquiries from shareholders on a 
wide range of issues. There is regular dialogue with individual
institutional shareholders, and all shareholders have the
opportunity to put questions at the company's annual general
meeting. The board makes a presentation at the meeting to
highlight the key business developments during the financial year.
Audit and internal control
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors
in connection with the accounts are explained on page 24 
within the Directors' report and page 45 in the Report of the
independent auditors and the directors' statement on going
concern appears in the Directors' report.
The directors are responsible for the company's system of internal
control which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key
procedures that the directors have established to provide
effective internal financial controls are as follows:
Financial reporting: a detailed formal budgeting process for all
group businesses culminates in an annual group budget which 
is approved by the board. Results for the company and for its
main constituent businesses are reported monthly against the
budget to the board.
Financial and accounting principles: comprehensive financial
and accounting controls are required by the board for effective
financial control.
Capital investment: the company has clearly defined guidelines
for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, detailed
appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due
diligence requirements where businesses are being acquired.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control from information provided by management
and external auditors.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal
control (The Turnbull Guidance), the board confirms its
commitment to the management of risk within the organisation.
Information provided by the group's risk committee, internal
management reporting, external auditors and industry sources
provides the basis on which the board carries out its review,
to identify, evaluate and manage any risk deemed significant
to the achievement of the company's strategic objectives.
The group does not have an internal audit function. Following
the necessary evaluation the board have concluded that due to
the modest size of the group, a formal internal function is not
required. Limited internal audit work is however carried out
by the group's finance department.
During the period under review, the group has operated a risk
review committee chaired by A H Parker Bowles. The committee
is appointed from members of the board and senior management.
Its role is to identify, evaluate and report formally to the board 
on significant risk issues.
The Audit Committee will keep the scope and cost effectiveness 
of both internal controls and the external audit under review. 
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also
considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level
of non-audit fees. The split between audit and non-audit fees 
for the year under review appears on page 35. The non-audit 
fees were paid in respect of tax advice and reports required for
shareholder documents and are considered by the Committee 
not to affect independence or objectivity.
Three of the directors of the group are on the board of the group's
joint venture, attheraces. At least one of the group's directors will
attend all significant meetings of the joint venture, where they
will use their influence to ensure that the highest standards of
internal control are maintained.
The listing rules - the model code
Dealings in the company's securities by directors and relevant
employees follow the terms of the model code.
Corporate governance continued