 The senior non-executive director is M McGann and any concerns relating
to the executive management of the company, or the performance of the
other non-executive directors, can be raised with him.
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions 
of the company' s Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The Articles also require
that one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and seek 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The directors required to retire
will be those in office longest since their previous re-election and this will
usually mean that each director retires at least every three years, although
there is no absolute requirement to this effect. In order to comply with the
Combined Code, but avoid the expense of amending the company' s
Articles to deal with this single point, the board has resolved that each
director will retire at least every three years, even if this is not strictly
required by application of the provisions of the Articles.
Full details of directors' remuneration and a statement of the company' s
remuneration policy is set out in the Remuneration report appearing on
pages 36 to 39.The members of the Remuneration Committee and the
principal terms of reference of the Committee appear on page 36.
Executive directors abstain from any discussion or voting at full board
meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations, where the
recommendations have a direct bearing on their own remuneration
package. The details of each executive director' s individual package are
fixed by the Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full board.
Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee are H R Mould (Chairman), 
A H Parker Bowles and M McGann, who was appointed on 27 June
2006. R D Withers served on the Nomination Committee until his
resignation on 8 May 2006. The Committee meets as required, but not
less than once a year. Its responsibilities include reviewing the board
structure, size and composition, nominating candidates to the board to fill
board vacancies when they arise, and recommending directors who are
retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election. The Committee also
ensures that all board appointees undergo training as appropriate.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least three times a year. 
It is comprised of M McGann (Chairman, appointed 27 June 2006), 
A H Parker Bowles and H R Mould. R D Withers served as Chairman of the
Audit Committee until his resignation on 8 May 2006. Meetings are
attended by senior representatives of the group' s external auditors and
appropriate members of senior management. Amongst other matters, 
the Committee considers the company' s annual and interim financial
statements and any issues raised by the auditors in relation to the financial
statements, financial systems and internal control within the group.
Corporate 
governance
34
Arena Leisure Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
There is commitment to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the group. Following publication of the Higgs Review  The
Role and Effectiveness of Non-executive Directors' and the Smith Report
 Combined Code Guidance for Audit Committees' in January 2003, the
Financial Reporting Council issued the Combined Code on 23 July 2003,
which came into effect for reporting years beginning on or after 
1 November 2003. The principles and provisions of the Code have been
considered by the board. The board confirms that throughout the year
ended 31 December 2006 the group has complied with the main and
supporting principles as set out in the Combined Code, except that
non-executives are not appointed for specified periods. 
The board is accountable to the company' s shareholders for good
governance and the statement set out below describes how the
principles identified in the Combined Code (appended to the listing rules)
are applied by the group.
Directors
The board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Raymond Mould, two
non-executive directors, Martin McGann and Andrew Parker Bowles, and
two executive directors, Mark Elliott and Ian Renton, of which Mark Elliott
is the Chief Executive. R D Withers served as non-executive Chairman
until his resignation on 8 May 2006. All of the non-executive directors are
considered by the board to be independent of management and free of
any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement.
Biographies of the board members appear on page 31 of this report.
These indicate the high levels and range of business experience which
is essential to manage effectively a business of the size and complexity
of the group. The group continues to experience rapid growth, and the
board is aware of its responsibilities to strengthen the board at
appropriate times in the group' s development.
The board meets at least six times each year and has a schedule of
matters reserved to it for decision. The requirement for board approval on
these matters is communicated widely throughout the senior management
of the group. This includes matters such as material capital commitments,
commencing or settling major litigation, business acquisitions and
disposals, and appointments to subsidiary company boards.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent
professional advice if necessary and at the company' s expense. This is in
addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The differing roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged
and defined in separate statements approved by the board. The key
functions of the Chairman are to conduct board meetings and meetings
of shareholders and to ensure that all directors are properly briefed in
order to take a full and constructive part in board discussions. The Chief
Executive is required to develop and lead business strategies and
processes to enable the group' s business to meet the requirements 
of its shareholders. The attendances at board and committee meetings by the directors and
senior executives of the company during 2006 are as follows:
Board Remuneration Audit Nomination
Meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 9 5 3 2
Executive directors 
M J Elliott 9 2 3 1
R I Renton 9 - - -
Non-executive directors 
H R Mould 8 4 - 2
R D Withers
- resigned 8 May 2006 4 2 1 1
A H Parker Bowles 8 5 3 2
M McGann 
- appointed 27 June 2006 2 3 2 -
Executive management 
R Mercer 9 - 3 -
Communication
The company places a great deal of importance on communication with
its shareholders. The full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders
and, on request, to other parties who have an interest in the group' s
performance. Shareholders also have direct access to the company, 
and the company responds to numerous letters and enquiries from
shareholders on a wide range of issues. There is regular dialogue with
individual institutional shareholders, and all shareholders have the
opportunity to put forward questions at the company' s Annual General
Meeting, at which the board highlights the key business developments
during the financial year.
Audit and internal control
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in
connection with the accounts are explained on page 33 within the
Directors' report and page 66 in the report of the independent 
auditors. The directors' statement on going concern appears in the
Directors' report. 
The directors are responsible for the company' s system of internal control
which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures that the
directors have established to provide effective internal financial controls
are as follows:
Financial reporting: a detailed formal budgeting process for all group
businesses culminates in an annual group budget which is approved 
by the board. Results for the company and for its main constituent
businesses are reported monthly against the budget to the board.
Financial and accounting principles: comprehensive financial and
accounting controls are required by the board for effective financial
control.
Capital investment: the company has clearly defined guidelines for capital
expenditure. These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review
procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements where
businesses are being acquired.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, which
complies with the guidance  Internal Control: Guidance for directors on
the combined code'. The process involves the maintenance of a risk
register which identifies significant risks and the controls in place to
manage these risks. Any control weaknesses are notified to the board
and the appropriate action to be taken by management is identified and
followed up. This process has been in place throughout the current period
and up to the date of approval of the financial statements. The process is
regularly reviewed by the board.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control 
(The Turnbull Guidance), the board confirms its commitment to the
management of risk within the organisation. Information provided by the
group' s risk committee, internal management reporting, external auditors
and industry sources provides the basis on which the board carries out its
review; to identify, evaluate and manage any risk deemed significant to the
achievement of the company' s strategic objectives. Such a system is
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group does not have an internal audit function. Following the
necessary evaluation the board has concluded that due to the modest
size of the group, a formal internal function is not required. Limited internal
audit work is however carried out by the group finance department.
During the period under review, the group has operated a Risk Review
Committee chaired by A H Parker Bowles. The committee is appointed
from members of the board and senior management. Its role is to identify,
evaluate and report formally to the board on significant risk issues.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both
internal controls and the external audit under review. The independence
and objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular
basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees. The split
between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears
on page 47. The non-audit fees were paid in respect of tax advice, tax
compliance work and other advice and are considered by the Audit
Committee not to affect independence or objectivity.
T wo of the directors of the group are on the board of the group' s joint
venture, At The Races. At least one of the group' s directors will attend all
significant meetings of the joint venture, where they will use their influence
to ensure that the highest standards of internal control are maintained.
The listing rules - the model code
Dealings in the company' s securities by directors and relevant employees
follow the terms of the model code.
Corporate 
governance continued
35
Arena Leisure Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2006