 Directors' statement on corporate governance 
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc
Annual Report 2008 42
The Board is accountable to the Company' s shareholders for good corporate governance. The Company is committed
to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and has adopted appropriate measures for a
Company of its size. This report sets out the measures it has taken.
The Board
The Board of Directors is responsible for the strategic direction, investment decisions and effective control of the Group.
As Tim Dyson, the Chief Executive, is located in San Francisco, the Board meets mainly by telephone conference 
(at least monthly and at other times when required). They meet face-to-face when possible and aim to do so at least
quarterly. There is a schedule of matters reserved for Board approval which is regularly reviewed and includes, among
other things, the Group' s annual budget, establishment of new subsidiaries, property leases, significant acquisitions or
disposals of fixed assets, and significant client contracts. During the year, 16 Board meetings were held, which included
five face-to-face meetings (the others being by telephone conference). All Directors attended all meetings, save for 
Will Whitehorn, who was unable to attend two meetings, and Tim Dyson, who was unable to attend one meeting.
The Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee comprise the two non-executive Directors, Ian T aylor (Committee
Chairman) and Will Whitehorn. The Nomination Committee comprises Will Whitehorn (Committee Chairman), Ian T aylor
and Tim Dyson. There were three Remuneration Committee meetings and two Audit Committee meetings during the
year, and these were attended by all members.
Prior to each monthly Board meeting, every member of the Board receives an agenda, supporting documents and
monthly trading results, together with a detailed commentary. The non-executive Directors are encouraged to ask 
for further information if necessary.
The non-executive Directors held meetings during the year without the executives present to discuss, among other
things, the performance of the Company and that of the executive Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined. The Chairman, Will Whitehorn, is
responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive, Tim Dyson, is responsible for managing the 
Group' s operations.
Board balance and independence
There were no changes to the Board during the year to 31 July 2008. The Board comprises two executive Directors: 
Tim Dyson, Chief Executive, and David Dewhurst, Finance Director. There are two non-executive Directors: 
Will Whitehorn, Chairman, and Ian T aylor, who is also the Company' s senior independent Director. Biographies of all 
the Directors are set out on pages 30 and 31. The Board considers that the current Board structure is appropriate, and
it complies with the QCA guidelines for AIM companies which permits an independent Chairman to be counted as one
of the two independent non-executive Directors. The Board views both Ian T aylor and Will Whitehorn as independent 
by the criteria set out in the Combined Code, and free from any relationship or circumstance which could affect their
independent judgement.
Appointments to the Board
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board upon recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
There was no requirement for a Nomination Committee meeting during the year.
Information and professional development
The Directors have adopted a number of policies and procedures to help them operate effectively. These include access
to independent professional advice and to the advice of the Company Secretary. Appropriate training for new and
existing Directors is provided where necessary.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company' s Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to re-election every three years. 
This year Tim Dyson and Ian T aylor will retire and will be subject to re-election.  Financial statements Operational review Overview Governance Additional information
Remuneration
The Remuneration report on pages 37 to 41 sets out details of the Directors' remuneration and the work of the
Remuneration Committee.
Financial reporting
The Statement of the Directors' Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is set out on page 45. 
The Directors have reviewed the Group' s budget and cash requirements for the year ending 31 July 2009 and
considered outline plans for the Group thereafter. The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt
the going-concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control and principal risks
The Directors have responsibility for the system of internal control for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
It is the responsibility of management to implement Board policies on risk and control. The Group' s system of internal
control is designed to manage and reduce, rather than eliminate, risk.
The Board assesses key areas of internal control and risk management and sets policies accordingly. At least twice a
year each of the core businesses is given the task of identifying and setting out its own key risks. The resulting document
must contain a review of the extent and likelihood of each risk and the effectiveness of the controls that manage these
risks. The Board also requires the businesses to identify and report any significant risks that arise during the year as soon
as they arise. The Audit Committee reviews the businesses' risk documents and produces a significant-risks document
for the Group which is considered and approved by the Board. It identifies ways to manage and control these risks and
sets policies accordingly.
The Board can therefore confirm that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
facing the Group. It has been in place throughout the year, and is up-to-date (as at the date of approval of these financial
statements). It is regularly reviewed and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board considers the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group to be:
  Employee risk - key employees leaving or being absent from the business. As a public relations business, 
the Company is heavily reliant on key employees who are vital to success. The ability to recruit new talent and retain
existing employees remains an important issue to the Group.
  Client risk - the loss of a major client. The Group is continuing to reduce the percentage of total revenue that comes
from a few major clients. Some of the Group' s businesses still, however, have a major reliance on a few large clients. 
All businesses continue to actively seek new clients to keep the reliance on major clients to a minimum.
  Currency risk - although the Company is listed in the UK, it makes much of its profit outside the UK. This exposes 
it to the risk of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Group has established treasury policies and procedures 
to mitigate this risk as much as possible.
The Board has considered the need for a separate internal audit function but has decided that, because of the size 
of the Group, this function will continue to be carried out by existing finance staff. This decision will continue to be
reviewed annually.
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc
Annual Report 2008 43 Directors' statement on corporate governance continued
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc
Annual Report 2008 44
Audit Committee and auditors
The Audit Committee meets periodically and at least twice per year with the external auditors, and with other Directors
and management attending by invitation. The primary role of the Committee is to keep under review the Group' s financial
reporting procedures and financial systems and controls and to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported
to shareholders. Its key terms of reference are:
  reviewing the findings of the audit work undertaken by the Group' s auditors;
  reviewing the effectiveness of the financial reporting and internal control procedures;
  reviewing the relationship with external auditors; and
  determining the level of the auditors' fees.
Its terms of reference are available on the Company' s website, www.nextfifteen.com. The independence and objectivity
of the auditors is considered by the Committee on a regular basis. The split between audit and non-audit work for the
year is set out in note 4 to the financial statements. The non-audit fees were in respect of non-audit tax services, advice
on the Company' s share option and long-term incentive schemes and IFRS advisory work. This work is not considered
to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors. The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of
independence from the auditors.
Relations with shareholders
The Company meets regularly with its institutional shareholders and is keen to encourage shareholder participation at
the Annual General Meeting, at which the Chief Executive makes a presentation summarising the progress of the Group
throughout the year and invites any questions from attendees. Proxy votes are disclosed following a show of hands on
each resolution. The Company also publishes its annual and interim reports on its website. The Company' s regulatory
news announcements and some analyst reports are also available on the website.
These measures enable information on the Company to reach a greater number of investors and interested
stakeholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly attend one-to-one meetings with key institutional
shareholders after the publication of the Company' s interim and preliminary results. While other non-executive Directors
do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if requested by the shareholders.