 Corporate Governance
13
Combined Code compliance
The Group has complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
The Board considers that the Group is well placed to comply with the requirements of the new Combined Code, which will become fully
effective for the financial year ended January 2005.
The Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for major policy decisions whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees and officers including the
Chief Executive. The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by
the Chief Executive. The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, including significant items of capital expenditure, investments,
treasury and dividend policy. The Board is responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets. Performance against budget is reported
to the Board monthly and any substantial variances are explained. Forecasts of each half year's anticipated results are revised and
reviewed monthly. Certain other important matters are subject to monthly reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including treasury
operations and capital expenditure.
The Board held nine full meetings during the year. Meetings were well attended by all directors serving at each date, with the aggregate
attendance exceeding 90% of the potential full attendance. 
The Board includes five non-executive directors who bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group. The Board
has appointed committees to carry out certain of its duties, three of which are detailed below. Each of these Committees has written
terms of reference which state its authority and duties, and which are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or on
request. Further committees are charged with carrying out day to day management of the Group. 
In addition to formal meetings, open discussions are frequently held between directors and information is provided to all directors on a
regular basis. All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
Audit Committee
The Committee comprises five independent non-executive directors including the senior non-executive director. The Committee
Chairman is a former investment banker with recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with external auditors and senior management where appropriate. Three
meetings were held in the year, with aggregate attendance exceeding 90% of the potential full attendance. The Committee reviews the
effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration. The Committee also
considers financial reporting and reviews the Group's accounting policies relating thereto. In particular, any major accounting issues of
a subjective nature are discussed by the Committee. 
Remuneration Committee
The Committee consists of five independent non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director. The Committee's
objective is to review and set a competitive level of remuneration for the executive directors and review that of senior executives. 
A Remuneration Report is included in this Annual Report. The Committee met four times during the year, and all meetings were 
fully attended.
Nomination Committee
The Committee consists of five independent non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director. The Committee meets
as required to fulfil its duties of reviewing the Board structure and composition. It is also responsible for identifying and nominating
candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise. During the year, two meetings were held and all members were consulted. Corporate Governance
14
Chairman
The Company maintains a division of responsibilities between the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive, which will be set out in
writing and approved by the Board. The two positions are filled by different individuals. The current Chairman was an executive director
(formerly the Chief Executive of the Company) with relevant experience in the management of the business. Consultation was carried
out with major shareholders in advance of his appointment to Deputy Chairman in 2001 and Chairman in 2002.
The Chairman's other significant commitments are noted on page 9. The Board considers that these are not a constraint on the
Chairman's agreed time commitment to the Company.
Chief Executive
The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief Executive to achieve. The Board is responsible for general policy on how these
objectives are achieved and delegates the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive. The Chief Executive is required to report
to the Board at each meeting all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
Management delegation
The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to day management of the business to operational management drawn from
executive directors and other senior management who have responsibility for the respective areas. The most important management
meeting is the weekly NEXT Brand trading meeting which considers the performance and development of the NEXT Brand through its
different distribution channels. It considers all business aspects of risk management in respect of the NEXT Brand including product, sales,
property, warehousing, systems and personnel. Key performance indicators are monitored daily and weekly. 
Performance evaluation
The performance of the Board and its sub-committees will be evaluated annually by the Chairman with each director on an individual
basis. The senior non-executive director appraises the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all the directors individually.
Risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group's risk management process. It has delegated responsibility for implementation of the risk
management process to the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified in each area of the business. The Board sets guidance
on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward.
The Board confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control covering financial,
operational, compliance and other controls and risk management. This includes identifying and evaluating key risks, determining control
strategies for these risks and considering how they may impact on the achievement of the business objectives. The risk management
process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and it is in
accordance with the guidance  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code'.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous process for the Board and has been considered on a regular basis during the year.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business. During the year the Board addressed the business
risks which had been identified as key, taking into account any changes in circumstances over the period. The Audit Committee has
reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is appropriate to the size and business risks
of the Group.
The Board considers that the Group's management structure and timely and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators
provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas of concern. Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of
conduct are maintained in respect of specific major risk areas and business processes. Through these procedures the management 
of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board will continue to enhance risk management and internal control 
wherever practical.
External auditors
Ernst & Young LLP have reported to the Audit Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are independent within the meaning
of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired. The
Audit Committee has reviewed this statement and concurs with its conclusion. Corporate Governance
15
Personal use of company assets
The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed that there has been no improper personal use of company assets by
directors or other employees. Policies are in place to ensure proper approval procedures are applied to expense claims and that these 
are in accordance with service agreements. The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the level of benefits in kind provided to 
executive directors.
Relations with shareholders
The Board acknowledges that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of shareholders. The Board is accountable to
shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the Group's business activities through its Annual Report and Accounts,
yearly and half yearly announcements and regular trading updates to the Stock Exchange. This information is also made publicly available
via the Company's website. Shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views to the Board at the Annual
General Meeting. Shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through the inclusion in Board reports of statements made by
representative associations.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those accounts, the directors are
required to:
- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
- state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the accounts;
- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
- prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
Going concern
The directors report that having reviewed current performance and forecasts they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they have continued to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the accounts.