  19
Argos r esources Ltd Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate governance statement
As an AIM company, Argos Resources Ltd is not required to comply 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The board does, however, 
seek to comply with the Code where it is practical to do so.
An outline of how it does this is as follows:
The board
The Argos Resources Ltd board is currently comprised of 
three executive and three non executive directors. It is therefore 
compliant with the Code's recommendation for smaller companies 
that at least two of the board members are independent 
non executive directors.
Whilst the non executive directors are shareholders in the 
Company and hold options to acquire shares in the Company, 
this is not considered a significant threat to their independence. 
One of the non executive directors, James Ragg, became a senior 
employee of Argos Georgia Limited, a substantial shareholder 
in the Company, with effect from 1 January 2013. The board has 
considered, in conjunction with its advisers, whether this has any 
impact on Mr Ragg's independence and has concluded that it 
does not. Apart from these matters and their directors' fees the 
non executive directors have no other financial interests in the 
Company or business relationships that would interfere with 
their independent judgement.
Dennis Carlton is the senior non executive director. Should 
shareholders have concerns which have not been adequately 
addressed by the chairman or managing director, he can be 
contacted by sending an email to info@argosresources.com. 
The same address can also be used to contact James Ragg, 
chairman of the audit committee.
The board has agreed to meet four times per year or more 
frequently if it needs to do so. There is a schedule of matters 
reserved for board approval and this ensures that the board 
exercises control over all key areas.
The board's executive chairman, Ian Thomson, is not considered 
independent as he holds a substantial number of the Company's 
shares and he has been on the board for more than 10 years. 
The Company considers, however, that the benefit of his 
experience and long involvement with business in the Falkland 
Islands more than outweighs the benefits of an independent 
chairman. He meets with the non executive directors, without 
the other executive directors present, at least once per year.
The Company complies with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules for 
Companies regarding dealings in the Company's shares and 
has adopted a code on dealing in securities to ensure compliance 
by directors.
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises James Ragg (committee 
chairman), Dennis Carlton and Chris Fleming. The board 
considers all three members of the committee to be independent 
and is satisfied that at least one, James Ragg, has recent and 
relevant financial experience.
The committee invites the remainder of the board and the external 
auditor to attend its meetings as observers. It meets the external 
auditor, in the absence of the remainder of the board, at least 
once per year.
The role and responsibilities of the audit committee have 
been set out in written terms of reference which include:
Z Z risk assessment, particularly, but not exclusively, in respect 
of financial reporting risks;
Z Z assessment of processes relating to the Company's 
control environment;
Z Z oversight of financial reporting;
Z Z evaluation of internal and external audit processes; and
Z Z development and implementation of policy on the provision 
of non audit services by the external auditor.
The full terms of reference for the audit committee are available 
on the Company's website.
The audit committee has established procedures by which 
concerns regarding accounting or audit matters may be brought 
to the committee chairman's attention and the chairman can be 
contacted by sending an email to info@argosresources.com.
The audit committee has considered the need for an internal 
audit function and regards this as unnecessary given the 
Company's current size and lack of complexity.
The audit committee makes recommendations to the 
board regarding the appointment, reappointment and removal 
of external auditors. At the Annual General Meeting the 
shareholders are requested to authorise the audit committee 
to fix the remuneration of the external auditors.
The audit committee recognises that, for smaller companies, 
it is cost effective to procure certain non audit services from the 
external auditor but there is a need to ensure that provision of 
such services does not impair, or appear to impair, the auditor's 
independence or objectivity. The committee has therefore put 
in place a written policy on the use of external auditors which 
includes clear limits on the level of non audit work beyond which 
the chairman of the audit committee must be consulted before 
the assignment can be awarded to the external auditor.
The audit committee was satisfied throughout the year that the 
external auditor's objectivity and independence were in no way 
impaired by the nature of the non audit work undertaken or any 
other factors including the level of non audit fees charged.
The audit committee held three meetings during the year. During 
the period since the year end two further meetings have been held.
The chairman of the audit committee reports to the board on the 
committee's discussions and minutes of the committee's 
meetings are circulated to all directors.
Nominations committee
The board considers that, at its current stage of development, 
the Company does not require a separate nominations committee. 
The functions of that committee, namely consideration of any new 
appointments of directors to the board, are therefore carried out 
by the board as a whole.
No appointments to the board were made in the year under review.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises Dennis Carlton (committee 
chairman), Chris Fleming and James Ragg. The board considers 
that all members of the remuneration committee are independent.
The committee's role is to establish the Company's policy for the 
remuneration of the executive directors in order to ensure that all 
members of the executive management of the Company are provided 
with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance.
The committee met formally once during the year under review 
and held a number of informal discussions. The committee 
considered the salaries paid to executives and recommended 
that increases, taking into account the effect of inflation, 
should be implemented with effect from 1 August 2012. 20
Argos r esources Ltd Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate governance statement continued
Directors' remuneration for the year is as set out below:
2012
Fees
 '000
2012
Pension 
Contributions
 '000
2012
Total
 '000
2011
Fees  
and total 
 '000
I M Thomson - - - -
J Hogan 198 *(10) 188 174
A Irvine 38 2 40 35
D Carlton 20 - 20 20
C Fleming 20 - 20 20
J Ragg 20 - 20 20
T otal directors' remuneration 296 (8) 288 269
Remuneration above Converted to $'000 472 (1 4) 458 434
* In 2012 J Hogan relinquished the right to any future pension entitlement, which was accruing at a rate of 5% of salary. The total amount of $32K, which had accrued, 
was transferred to a newly set up scholarship fund and amounts will continue to accrue to the scholarship fund at the same rate.
Internal controls and risk management
The board of directors is responsible for implementing and 
reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control.
The system of internal control is designed to mitigate rather than 
eliminate risk and therefore provides reasonable rather than total 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As noted above, the board does not consider it necessary, at the 
Company's current stage of development, to implement an internal 
audit capability.
Shareholder relationships
During the year the executive directors held a number of meetings 
with shareholders and potential shareholders. These meetings 
included formal road shows and presentations, analyst briefings 
and media interviews. All directors are kept informed regarding 
these meetings.
Going concern
As at the date of approval of the financial statements the board 
is of the opinion that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in existence for at least twelve months 
from that date. The board has therefore continued to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparation of the financial statements.
Capital
Capital is managed to ensure that the group is able to continue 
as a going concern and consists of cash and equity. The group 
is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Directors' attendance
Directors' attendance at board and committee meetings for the 
year is as set out below:
board  
Meetings
Audit 
Committee 
Meetings
Remuneration 
Committee 
Meetings
I M Thomson (Chairman) 6 - -
J Hogan 6 - -
A Irvine 6 - -
D Carlton (chairman, remuneration committee) 6 3 1
C Fleming 2 2 1
J Ragg (chairman, audit committee) 5 3 1
T otal meetings during the year 6 3 1
Share options
The share options in place as at 31 December 2012 and held by directors are as follows:
Date of grant
Number of 
options brought 
forward
Exercised 
during the year
Number of 
options carried 
forward
Exercise price 
(pence)
J Hogan 12/11/2009 5,805,818 - 5,805,818 2
A Irvine 12/11/2009 1,375,000 500,000 875,000 2
D Carlton 12/11/2009 1,375,000 - 1,375,000 2
C Fleming 12/11/2009 1,375,000 600,000 775,000 2
J Ragg 12/11/2009 1,375,000 150,000 1,225,000 2
Total 1 1,305,818 1,250,000 10,055,818
The share options were exercisable from 30 October 2010 and expire on 11 November 2019.
Options exercised in 2012 resulted in 1,250,000 shares (2011: Nil shares) being issued. The related average share price at the time 
of exercise was 16.9 pence per share.
The directors believe that performance related pay is an important element in retaining key staff and other personnel and also benefits 
the shareholders by linking reward to performance.