 13
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006
In the Report and Accounts to 31st March 2004 the Board set out its commitment to best
practice corporate governance appropriate to a company of its size. This has continued
throughout the current financial year. The Company complies with this new Code except as
noted below. Processes complying either with the previous Code or the current one have
been followed throughout the year. They provide reasonable, although not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board
The board currently consists of seven directors, three of whom are non-executive and four
of whom are executive. The Chairman is non-executive. All non-executive directors are
considered to be independent within the meaning of the New Combined Code. All have
small shareholdings and benefit from options but this aligns them with shareholders.
The board meets regularly throughout the year to monitor the monthly management
accounts and performance of the Group and all major decisions are taken by the full board.
The board in turn delegates the implementation of board policy and the day-to-day
operational management of the Group to the Chief Executive and his team. All directors
have access to the Company Secretary and any director needing independent advice in the
furtherance of his duties may obtain this advice at the expense of the company.
Since March 2005, the board met 12 times. There were 6 meetings where all directors
attended each meeting and 6 meetings where there was one director absent.
The Audit Committee
 
Membership
The Audit Committee is composed of three Non-executive Directors - Mr Rappolt,
Chairman, Mr Adlam and Dr Tryzelaar. The Finance Director and the Chief Executive
attend as necessary.
 
Timetable
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year to review the published financial
information, the effectiveness of external audit and internal controls. 14
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006
 
Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are to assist the Directors in
discharging their individual and collective legal responsibilities for ensuring that:-
-
the Group's financial and accounting systems provide accurate and up to date
information on its current financial position;
-
the Group's published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of 
this position and;
- the external audit which the law required in order to provide independent
confirmation that these legal responsibilities are being met, is conducted in a
thorough, efficient and effective manner.
In order to meet these terms of reference the Audit Committee will:
a) Consider the appointment of external auditors, the audit fee and any questions of
resignation or dismissal of the auditors.
b) Discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit before it commences.
c) Review half and full year financial statements and accounts, focusing particularly on:
- any changes in accounting policies and practices;
- major judgmental areas;
- significant adjustments arising from the audit;
- the going concern assumptions;
- compliance with accounting and legal standards and requirements.
d) Discuss any problems and reservations arising from the half year and full year audits
and any other matters the auditors may wish to discuss.
e) Keep under review the effectiveness of internal control systems and risk management
systems and to review the auditor's management letter and management's response
to it.
f) Consider any other matter at the request of the Board.
The Committee will provide a formal report to the Board at least once a year .
The Audit Committee met formally six times during the last financial year where it approved
the final accounts for 2004/2005, reviewed financial timetables, reviewed internal policies
and reviewed due diligence procedures. All members attended every meeting. 15
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee
The Remuneration and Appointments Committee ensures that all remuneration and other
rewards, and their structure, for executive directors and other senior managers, fully satisfy
performance and other criteria and approves them. It also approves all senior management
and director level appointments, if necessary meeting the candidates. 
The committee consists of three non-executive directors - Mr Adlam, Chairman, Dr
Tryzelaar and Mr Rappolt - with the Chief Executive in attendance where appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year and reviewed bonus plans,
salary levels and overdraft guarantee rewards.
As a result:
 
Executive bonus scheme was reviewed. The new scheme offers, modest cash
payments and options at a 15% premium to mid price if profit targets are met.
 
Options were granted to the Executive Directors for the guarantee of the banking facility.
37,894,737 were issued in total at a 15% premium to the mid market price.
 
Options were granted to the Non Executive Directors for the guarantee of the banking
facility. 20,210,526 were issued in total at a 15% premium to the mid market price.
 
Options were granted to the Non Executive Directors in exchange for sacrificing 20
months' worth of fees. 2,517,789 shares were issued to each director, a total of
7,553,367 at the mid market price.
These changes saved the Company significant cash resources at a time when the
Company was running an overdraft and ties all Directors more closely to the fortunes of the
Company's share price.
Compliance with the New Combined Code
On 9th May 2006, Nexus Management Plc acquired the share capital of FixIT Worldwide
Limited. FixIT has been integrated into the processes of Nexus Management. Nexus
complies with all aspects of the New Combined Code except as stated below:
Combined Code Reference Description Action/Reason
The Board
A.1.3 Independent directors to Not considered necessary
meet once a year without for a company
executive directors of our size
present and once without 
Chairman present
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006 16
Combined Code Reference Description Action/Reason
Board balance and independence
A.3.3 Appointment of senior Considered inappropriate
independent director for company of our size
Remuneration
B.1.3 Remuneration for In order to save the
Directors should not Company cash, non-
include share options executive directors agreed
and, if exceptionally to forgo their salaries in
issued, should not be exchange for share options.
exercisable until one year This was considered to be
after leaving Board in the interest of the
company and its
shareholders. The options
are exercisable after 6
months owing to the salary
sacrifice and will be
reviewed when we are again
able to pay non-execs
salaries. Both executive and
non-executive directors are
rewarded in share options
for the risk taken in
guaranteeing the overdraft
for the Group. 
It has been agreed that in
the calendar year 2007, as
the cash position of the
Company improves, Non-
Executive Directors will
transition from option
remuneration to cash
remuneration.
Procedure
B2.4 Shareholders to approve No such schemes
long term incentive introduced
schemes
Accountability and Auditing
C.3.5 Internal Audit function Not considered appropriate
for a company of our size
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006 17
Combined Code Reference Description Action/Reason
Relations with Shareholders
D.1.1 Chair to discuss Not currently appropriate
governance and strategy for a company of our size
with major shareholders
D.1.2 State how members of The Chair and Chief
the Board, in particular Executive will feed back
non-executive directors shareholders views to the
develop understanding Board. More than this
of views of major not considered appropriate
shareholders for a company of our size
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006 18
Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal control
which is designed to ensure adherence to the Group's policies whilst safeguarding the
assets of the Group, in addition to ensuring the completeness and accuracy of the
accounting records.  On the basis that such a system can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and that it relates only to the
needs of the business at the time, the system as a whole was found by the Directors at the
time of approving these financial statements to be generally appropriate to the size of the
business.
The key features of internal control that operated throughout the period covered by these
financial statements are described under the following headings:-
Control Environment 
There is a clear organisational structure within which individual responsibilities are identified
and can be monitored.
Identification and Evaluation of Business Risks and Control Objectives
The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying major business risks facing the
Group and developing appropriate policies to manage these risks.  The risk management
approach used is to identify the Group's most significant areas of risk and determine key
control objectives. A more formal procedure of risk analysis, assessment and mitigation
has been introduced this year.
Performance Review 
The Directors monitor the Group's performance through the preparation of monthly
management accounts which are compared with budgets and other performance targets
on a regular basis.  Significant variances from targets are analysed and reviewed.  There
are also monthly reviews of sales and cash projections by the CEO and FD and if variances
are significant brought to the Boards attention. Sales and cash projections are reviewed at
each Board meeting.
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006 19
General Procedures and Monitoring 
Operating controls are detailed in board minutes and compliance with these procedures is
covered by the Group's external auditors only to the extent necessary to form their opinion
of the truth and fairness of the financial statements.  The Audit Committee will review the
operation and effectiveness of this framework.
Going Concern 
The Directors, after having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements. 
On behalf of the Board
M S J Rappolt
Director
NEXUS MANAGEMENT PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2006