 16 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Risk Potential effects Mitigating actions
Change 
from 
prior year
Key commercial relationships
Whilst the Group has a diverse 
range of customers there 
are nevertheless certain key 
customers who account for 
high levels of revenue. 
Many of the contractual arrangements with 
customers are short term in nature (as is common 
in our markets) and there exists some risk that the 
current performance of a business may not be 
maintained if such contracts were not renewed 
or extended, or were maintained at lower 
volumes due to a decline in economic activity.
The importance of relationships with key customers 
is recognised and managed by senior personnel 
within the Group.
Rebate schemes and incentive programmes help 
maintain these key relationships in a competitive 
market situation.
The Group stresses key selling points such as 
continuity of supply, financial strength of the 
Group and level of customer service to help 
maintain relationships. 
The existence of a flexible cost base helps 
alleviate this potential risk in certain of the 
Group's businesses.
 
Competition
The Group operates within a 
highly competitive environment 
in all its markets. 
The Group accepts there is a risk to its results 
and financial condition caused by the actions of 
its competitors, including competitors' marketing 
strategies and product development. 
To help identify such risks the competitive 
environment, specific marketplace and the 
actions of particular competitors are discussed 
at both Group and operating divisional Board 
meetings. In addition each market is carefully 
monitored to identify any significant shift in 
policy by any competitor.
 
Reliance on 
production facilities
The Group has a small 
number of fully automated 
manufacturing facilities for 
the manufacture of tiles 
and adhesives. 
If any of these facilities (including technology 
used to operate them) were to fail, the effect 
on the Group could be significant. 
The Group has a well established ongoing 
preventative maintenance programme as well as 
a comprehensive annual shutdown  programme 
throughout its manufacturing operations. 
Furthermore the Group has developed an 
experienced globally co-ordinated product 
sourcing function which could mitigate the 
risk of failure. 
Finished inventory holdings across the 
operations act as a limited buffer in the event 
of operational failure. 
A business interruption insurance policy is 
maintained to mitigate losses caused by a serious 
event affecting manufacturing capability.
 
Staff retention and recruitment
The Group employs over 1,600 
people worldwide. 
The Group's ability to grow and increase its market 
share depends significantly on its continuing ability 
to recruit and retain highly skilled employees in 
each area of its activities. Future growth plans may 
be restricted or delayed by difficulties experienced 
in recruiting and retaining appropriate staff.
Group policy is to remunerate its personnel in line 
with market rates and practice. In addition there 
are bonus schemes and access to a final salary 
pension scheme which are valuable benefits.
Executives and key management are now 
incentivised via an Approved Performance Share 
Plan which was approved at the 2011 AGM. This 
plan was implemented in the UK during the year 
with implementation planned in South Africa 
during 2012. 
Succession planning is an agenda item at Group 
Board level.
Foreign currency exchange risk
A significant amount of the 
Group's business is conducted 
in currencies other than Sterling 
(primarily South African Rand, 
US Dollar, Australian Dollar 
and Euro). 
The Group's financial performance is subject to the 
effects of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group seeks to hedge its foreign exchange 
transactional flows for up to twelve months forward. 
The Group may, where it is considered 
appropriate, denominate some of its borrowings 
in other currencies to hedge translational profit 
and asset risk although this is not considered 
necessary at present given the level of earnings 
made by its overseas businesses at present 
compared to the Group as a whole.
 
Operational risk management
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could 
have a material impact on the Group's performance. Norcros has a 
system of risk management which identifies these items and seeks 
ways of mitigating such risks as far as possible. The key risks which 
the Group believes it is exposed to are noted as follows: 17 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Review of the year
Corporate governance Financial statements
Risk Potential effects Mitigating actions
Change 
from 
prior year
Interest rate risk
The Group pays interest 
and other facility fees based 
on current base rates and 
LIBOR rates.
A significant increase in interest rates would 
affect the Group's profitability and cash flow.
Given the current low levels of bank debt and low 
interest rates negotiated as part of the refinancing 
of bank debts this year, it is not considered 
advantageous to enter into hedging arrangements 
for the time being. The Group's interest rate risk is 
reviewed regularly by Executive Management and at 
least annually as part of the Group budget process. 
Pension scheme management
The UK companies in the Group 
participate in a defined benefit 
pension scheme. 
The Group's financial results show an aggregate 
deficit in this scheme, as at 31 March 2012 of 
 18.7m (2011:  7.0m) assessed in accordance 
with IAS 19. There are various risks that could 
adversely affect the funding of the defined 
benefits under the scheme and consequently 
the Group's funding obligations. 
Executive Management regularly monitors the 
funding position of the scheme and is represented 
on both the Trustee's board and its investment 
sub-committee to monitor and assess investment 
performance and other risks to the Group.
The Group considers each actuarial valuation 
(annual IAS 19 valuation and each triennial 
valuation) to re-assess its position with regard 
to its pension commitments in conjunction 
with external actuarial advice.
Energy price risk
Energy costs are a significant 
proportion of the Group's 
manufacturing costs, especially 
in its tile manufacturing 
businesses. 
Sustained increases in energy costs could 
significantly affect the Group's profitability.
Prices are monitored on a regular basis and, 
where believed to be appropriate, a proportion 
of energy costs are hedged.
 
Additional capital requirements 
to fund ongoing operations
The Group must ensure it has adequate funding 
to meet capital demands within its current 
available facilities.
The Group's current and forecast performance 
against its banking facilities is monitored regularly by 
the Executive Directors. This has historically shown 
there are ample facilities available to meet the 
current and future needs of the existing Group. 
The Group refinanced its facilities during the year 
with a new financing agreement to October 2015. 
This new agreement has not materially changed 
the Group's available facility. 
Performance against 
banking covenants
The Group is subject to key 
banking covenants including 
interest cover and debt cover.
Failure to meet these covenants could result in 
the Group being in default of its banking facilities.
Performance against banking covenants 
is regularly and closely monitored. 
The recent debt refinancing reduced both the 
number and frequency of the Group's covenant 
tests and provided the Group with a comfortable 
level of headroom.
Many of the products the Group 
sells are subject to changing 
consumer preferences 
The Group's revenues and profits can be sensitive to 
these changing preferences. Failure to anticipate, 
identify or react swiftly to changes in consumer 
preferences could result in lower sales, higher 
mark-downs to reduce excess inventories and lower 
profits. Conversely, failure to anticipate increased 
consumer demand for its products may lead to 
inventory shortages, negatively impacting customer 
goodwill, brand image and profitability.
The Group invests significantly in sales 
and marketing including design, new product 
development and market research. All these 
are discussed at each operating divisional 
Board meeting and are regular agenda items. 
Each divisional Board has appropriate sales 
and marketing representation. This ensures the 
Group is aware of changes in the marketplace 
and can adapt resources accordingly.
 
South African operations 
Approximately a third of 
the Group's activities are 
conducted in South Africa.
The Group may be exposed to risks outside of its 
control including political, social and economic 
instability, unexpected changes in the regulatory 
environment, exposure to different legal standards 
or employment relations and potentially adverse 
tax consequences. 
In addition, the geographical spread of the Group's 
operations means management co-ordination 
of effort and communications with employees 
are subject to certain challenges.
The Group Executives and Head Office finance 
staff are in regular contact with their South African 
counterparts via electronic communication. 
In addition Group Executives make regular visits 
to the Group's South African operations as do 
other Head Office staff on internal control visits.
 
Management of 
property estate
The Group has several 
leasehold interests in 
properties which are no 
longer used by the Group.
In a number of cases the rent paid by the Group 
exceeds the rents received from sub-letting 
these properties.
The Group maintains a leasehold provision 
specifically to cover these rental shortfalls, 
this is reviewed regularly and updated 
whenever significant assumptions change.
The property portfolio is managed on a day 
to day basis by a property consultant who 
is engaged by the Group.
The Group seeks to enter long-term leases with 
tenants to give it as much security over future 
revenues as possible and minimise rent free 
periods and voids. 
During 2011/12 the Group paid  7.8m as a 
surrender premium to exit its lease at Springwood 
Drive. This removed annual costs of  3.3m from 
the Group and significantly reduced the risks 
associated with the Group's property portfolio.