 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
In June 1998, the London Stock Exchange issued the Combined Code, which sets out the Principles of
Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice.  The Code stems from the report of the 
Hampel Committee and consolidates the work and recommendations of this Committee with that of the
Cadbury and Greenbury Committees.
The Listing Rules require the Company to disclose how it has applied the 14 Principles of Good
Governance and to explain the extent to which the Code Provisions have been complied with during the
accounting period.
DIRECTORS
Board of Directors
The Company is led and controlled through the Board of Directors, which comprises two executive and
three non-executive Directors.  Biographical details of each Director currently in office appear on page
18. The roles of Chairman and Managing Director are separate such that there is an adequate division 
of responsibilities at senior board level.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has
established a procedure whereby any Director may seek independent professional advice in the
furtherance of his duties at the Company's expense.
As required by the Company's articles of association, Directors offer themselves for re-election at least
once every three years.
Non-executive Directors
The Board considers that  the non executive directors were independent throughout the year. The  non-
executive Directors actively contribute to the functioning of the Board and bring a range of views and
experience from different fields.
Main Board Responsibilities
The Board meets formally at regular intervals during the year.  Meetings are chaired by one of the non-
executive Directors.  The Board is responsible for the overall direction and strategy of the Group to
secure optimum performance.  The Board has specified those areas of operations in the Group which 
are specifically in its domain and may not be delegated; these include the appointment and removal of
the Company Secretary.
All Board members receive weekly summary financial information and monthly management accounts.
Additional ad-hoc reports on other matters are received and considered as appropriate.
Board Committees
  Operations Committee
The Operations Committee comprises the executive Directors and certain senior business managers.  It
meets weekly under the Chairmanship of Mr H.W. Matthews, the Managing Director, and deals with the
major decisions of the Group other than those dealt with by the Remuneration and Audit Committees or
by the full Board.
  Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises  two non-executive Directors, Mr  A.L. Caplin (Chairman) and
Mr G. Cole.  The Committee meets at least once a year and is responsible for setting the remuneration
policy and annual salaries that apply to executive Directors.
  Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr A.L. Caplin, comprises  all the non-executive Directors.  The Audit
Committee meets with the external auditors at least once a year.  The Committee's responsibilities
include monitoring the relationships with external auditors, reviewing the Group's statutory accounts
and other published financial information, monitoring compliance with statutory and UK Listing
Authority requirements and instigating other projects as it sees fit.
Page 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The Company's Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy that applies to executive
Directors.  In setting the policy it considers a number of factors including:
(a) the basic salaries and benefits available to executive Directors of comparable companies;
(b) the need to attract and retain Directors of an appropriate calibre and experience;
(c) the need to ensure executive Directors' commitment to the continued success of the Company 
by means of incentive schemes.
The Company's remuneration policy for executive Directors is to:
(a) have regard to the Directors' experience and the nature and complexity of their work in order 
to pay a competitive salary that attracts and retains management of the highest quality;
(b) link individual remuneration packages to the Group's performance through target related 
bonuses;
(c) provide post-retirement benefits through either the Group's defined contribution pension 
scheme or by contributing to personal pension plans;
(d) provide employment-related benefits including the provision of a company car, life assurance, 
insurance relating to the Director's duties and medical insurance.
The final determination of individual directors' remuneration is taken by the Board as a whole but
with no Director participating in the discussions, nor voting, on his own remuneration package.
The non-executive Directors each receive a fee for their services which is agreed by the Board
following recommendation by the Chairman.  The non-executive Directors do not receive any
pension or other benefits from the Company, nor do they participate in any of the bonus or
incentive schemes.  The non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors' Remuneration, set out on page 12, gives
details of Directors' pay.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Directors, particularly the Chairman,  attend meetings with the Company's institutional
shareholders throughout the year.  Formal presentations are made to analysts and institutional
shareholders following the announcement of the annual and interim results to discuss issues and
obtain feedback.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working
days prior to the meeting.   Directors attend the AGM and will be available to answer shareholders'
questions.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial Reporting
The Board believes that its Annual Reports and Accounts represent a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Group's and Company's position and prospects whilst also complying with the
legal and regulatory requirements for financial reporting relevant to the Company.
Internal Control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of internal control and for
monitoring their effectiveness
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational
and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines
of responsibilities and delegation of authority.  There are established procedures for planning,
capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Group's business
and its performance.  The Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of
the systems of internal  control within an established framework that applies within the Group.
Page 15
YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Group's control systems address key business and financial risks.  The Board considers the
greatest risks to be related to the realisable value of current assets, principally stock and debtors.
Particular attention is paid to all matters relating to purchasing, stock, sales, debtors, cash, capital
expenditure and foreign exchange.  Comprehensive documented procedures are used and are
available to all staff via the extensive computer system.
A system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Board has considered the need for internal audit but has decided that because of the size of
the Group it cannot be justified at present.
A review of internal control was undertaken by the Board in September 2002.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The UK Listing Authority's Rules require that the Board reports on the Company's compliance with
the Code provisions throughout the accounting period.  The Directors believe that the Company
has complied with the Code throughout the year except as detailed below.
The recommendation in the Code to establish a Nominations Committee does not apply where the
Board is small.  The term  small' is not defined.  The Board of the Company comprises five Directors,
three of whom are non-executive.  At this size, the Board considers that the Board as a whole can
handle recommendations on all new Board appointments in an effective manner.
The combined code recommends that the audit committee should comprise at least three directors,
all of whom should be independent non-executives.  During the year the company only had two
non-executives and therefore was not in compliance with the code (D3.1).  The Company has now
appointed a third non-executive director. 
During the year neither of the non-executive directors was considered senior to the other and for
this reason the Company had not separately identified a senior independent director (A2.1).The
company has now appointed Tony Caplin as senior non-executive. 
The Board did not have in place the formal procedure relating to the review of internal control
(D2.1) during the year ended 30th June 2002.
By order of the Board
S. Yoganathan ACMA
Company Secretary
25th September 2002
Page 16