 full year ended
30 June 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance  which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for 
which the board is accountable to shareholders.
The Listing Rules require the company to disclose how it has applied the 14 Principles of Good Governance 
and to explain the extent to which the Code Provisions have been complied with during the accounting period.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The UK Listing Authority's Rules require that the board reports on the company's compliance with the Code 
provisions throughout the accounting year. The directors believe that the company has complied with the Code 
throughout the year except as detailed below.
The board has not established a Nominations Committee. At the year end the board of the company comprised 
four directors, two of whom were non-executive. At this size, the board considers that the board as a whole can 
handle recommendations on all new board appointments in an effective manner. 
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the two non executive directors.   
The arrangements by which company staff may raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of 
financial reporting or other matters were not considered or formalised until after the end of the year. This 
review has taken place during September 2007.
Non executive directors - during the year to 30 June 2008, the non executive directors comprised Mr A 
Caplin and Mr R. Heath. Mr A. Caplin has been a  non executive director for nine years and has a substantial 
shareholding in the company. The Board considers that because of Mr Caplin's wide range of  other interests in 
the corporate sector,  these facts of themselves have not in any way impeded his independence.
 
DIRECTORS
Board of Directors
The company is led and controlled through the Board of Directors, which during last year comprised two 
executive and two non-executive directors. Biographical details of each director in office during the year 
appear on page 21. The roles of the chairman and managing director are separate such that there is an adequate 
division of responsibilities at senior board level.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and the board has established a 
procedure whereby any director may seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the 
company's expense.
As required by the company's articles of association, directors offer themselves for re-election at least once 
every three years.
16 Non-executive Directors
The board considers that  the non-executive directors were independent throughout the year. The  non-executive 
directors actively contribute to the functioning of the board and bring a range of views and experience from 
different fields.
Main board responsibilities
The board meets formally at regular intervals during the year. Meetings are chaired by the executive chairman. 
The board is responsible for the overall direction and strategy of the group to secure optimum performance. 
The board has specified those areas of operations in the group which are specifically in its domain and may not 
be delegated; these include the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
All board members receive weekly summary financial information and monthly management accounts.  
Additional ad hoc reports on other matters are received and considered as appropriate.
Directors attendance
The following table shows the attendance of directors at the board and committee meetings held in the last year.
  Board Audit Remuneration
 Meetings Committee Committee
No. of meetings: 7 3 1
David Michael Phillips 7 N/A N/A
Henry William Matthews 7 N/A N/A
Anthony Caplin 6 3 1
Reginald Heath 6 3 1
Board Committees
 	 Audit	Committee
 The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr R. F. Heath, comprised the non-executive directors. The company 
secretary acts as secretary to the committee. The audit committee meets with the external auditors at least 
once a year. The committee's responsibilities include monitoring the relationships with external auditors, 
reviewing the group's statutory accounts and other published financial information, monitoring compliance 
with statutory and UK Listing Authority requirements and instigating other projects as it sees fit. The terms 
of reference of the audit committee have been reviewed and are available on request by writing to the 
company secretary at the registered address. 
 	 Remuneration	Committee
 At the year end the Remuneration Committee comprised both non-executive directors, Mr A. L. Caplin 
(Chairman) and Mr R. F. Heath.  The company secretary acts as secretary to the committee. The committee 
meets at least once a year and is responsible for setting the remuneration policy and annual salaries that 
apply to executive directors.
 	 Operations	Committee
 The Operations Committee comprises the executive directors and certain senior business managers.  It 
meets weekly under the chairmanship of Mr H.W.Matthews, the managing director, and deals with the 
major decisions of the group other than those dealt with by the Remuneration and Audit Committees or by 
the full board.
17 full year ended
30 June 2008
Board effectiveness
Under the new Combined Code, the board is required each year to carry out a formal and rigorous evaluation 
of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors. In July 2006 the chairman led an 
evaluation of the board's performance. The evaluation included a review of the role and structure of the board, 
board and committee meetings, processes, corporate governance issues and an assessment of the contribution 
of individual directors. The results of the evaluation were presented to the board by the chairman. The board 
considered the issues identified and during the year to end June 2007 has taken action to address those issues.
GOING CONCERN BASIS
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The directors, particularly the chairman, attend meetings with the company's institutional shareholders 
throughout the year. Formal presentations are made to analysts and institutional shareholders following the 
announcement of the annual and interim results to discuss issues and obtain feedback.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to 
the meeting. Directors attend the AGM and will be available to answer shareholders' questions
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial Reporting
The board believes that its Annual Reports and Accounts represent a balanced and understandable assessment 
of the group's and company's position and prospects whilst also complying with the legal and regulatory 
requirements for financial reporting relevant to the company.
Internal Control
The board of directors has overall responsibility for the group's systems of internal control and for monitoring 
their effectiveness.
The board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and 
compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibilities 
and delegation of authority. There are established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information 
and reporting systems and for monitoring the group's business and its performance. The board has delegated to 
executive management the implementation of the systems of internal  control within an established framework 
that applies within the group.
18 The group's control systems address key business and financial risks. The board considers the greatest risks 
to be related to the realisable value of current assets, principally inventories and trade receivables. Particular 
attention is paid to all matters relating to purchasing, inventories, revenues, trade receivables, cash, capital 
expenditure and foreign exchange. Comprehensive documented procedures are used and are available to all 
staff via the extensive computer system.
A system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
As and when areas of improvement are brought to the attention of the board and management steps are taken to 
further embed internal control and risk management into the operations of the business.
The board has considered the need for internal audit but has decided that because of the size of the group it 
cannot be justified at present.
A review of internal control was undertaken by the board in July 2007, a further review of the control 
procedures and risk factors pertaining to the company was undertaken in April 2008.  The conclusions of both 
these reviews were that the systems and operations of the internal controls remained effective and  appropriate 
to the operations of the company.
By order of the Board
 
S.yoganathan aCMa
Company Secretary
24 September 2008
19