 Northamber | RepoR t & Accounts
Corporate Governance
the corporate Governance Report forms part of the directors' Report included here on pages 9 to 12 .
this company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the combined 
code on corporate Governance which is appended to the listing Rules of the Financial services 
Authority and for which the board is accountable to shareholders .
the listing Rules require the company to disclose how it has applied the 14 p rinciples of Good 
Governance and to explain the extent to which the code p rovisions have been complied with 
during the accounting period .
Compliance Statement
the uK listing Authority's Rules require that the board reports on the company's compliance with 
the code provisions throughout the accounting year . the directors believe that the company has 
complied with the code throughout the year except as detailed below .
the board has not established a nominations committee . At the year end the board of the 
company comprised four directors, two of whom were non-executive . At this size, the board 
considers that the board as a whole can handle recommendations on all new board appointments 
in an effective manner . 
during the year the Audit committee comprised the two non-executive directors . 
non-executive directors - during the year to 30 June 2009, the non-executive directors comprised 
Mr A .caplin and Mr R .Heath . Mr A .caplin has been a non-executive director for ten years and 
has a substantial shareholding in the company . the Board considers that because of Mr caplin's 
wide range of other interests in the corporate sector, these facts of themselves have not in any way 
impeded his independence .
Directors
Board of Directors
the company is led and controlled through the Board of directors, which during last year 
comprised two executive and two non-executive directors . Biographical details of each director in 
office during the year appear on page 21 . the roles of the chairman and managing director are 
separate such that there is an adequate division of responsibilities at senior board level .
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and the board has 
established a procedure whereby any director may seek independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of his duties at the company's expense .
As required by the company's articles of association, directors offer themselves for re-election at 
least once every three years .
Non-Executive Directors
the board considers that the non-executive directors were independent throughout the year . the 
non-executive directors actively contribute to the functioning of the board and bring a range of 
views and experience from different fields .
Main Board Responsibilities
the board meets formally at regular intervals during the year . Meetings are chaired by the 
executive chairman . the board is responsible for the overall direction and strategy of the group 
to secure optimum performance . the board has specified those areas of operations in the group 
which are specifically in its domain and may not be delegated; these include the appointment and 
removal of the company secretary .
16 RepoR t & Accounts | Northamber 17
All board members receive weekly summary financial information and monthly management 
accounts . Additional ad hoc reports on other matters are received and considered as appropriate .
Directors Attendance
the following table shows the attendance of directors at the board and committee meetings held in 
the last year .
 Board Audit Remuneration
 Meetings Committee Committee
no of meetings: 6 2 1
david Michael phillips 6 n/A  n/A
Henry William Matthews 6 n/A  n/A
Anthony caplin 5 2 1
Reginald Heath 5 2 1 
Board Committees
Audit Committee
the Audit committee, chaired by Mr R .F .Heath, comprised the non-executive directors . the 
company secretary acts as secretary to the committee . the audit committee meets with the 
external auditors at least once a year . the committee's responsibilities include monitoring the 
relationships with external auditors, reviewing the group's statutory accounts and other published 
financial information, monitoring compliance with statutory and uK listing Authority requirements 
and instigating other projects as it sees fit . the terms of reference of the audit committee have 
been reviewed and are available on request by writing to the company secretary at the registered 
address . 
Remuneration Committee
At the year end the Remuneration committee comprised both non-executive directors, Mr 
A .l .caplin (chairman) and Mr R .F .Heath . the company secretary acts as secretary to the 
committee . the committee meets at least once a year and is responsible for setting the 
remuneration policy and annual salaries that apply to executive directors .
Operations Committee
the operations committee comprises the executive directors and certain senior business 
managers . It meets weekly under the chairmanship of Mr H .W .Matthews, the managing director, 
and deals with the major decisions of the group other than those dealt with by the Remuneration 
and Audit committees or by the full board .
Board Effectiveness
under the new combined code, the board is required each year to carry out a formal and 
rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors . 
since the last formal review in June 2006 all the issues raised were subsequently dealt with . the 
Board is very small comprising only 4 members who remain the same and whose responsibilities 
have not changed since that last formal review . there have been no issues affecting the Board's 
effectiveness arising since the last formal review and as a consequence no further formal reviews 
have been undertaken .
Going Concern Basis
t he group's activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Business and Financial Review and the director's Report on pages 7 to 12 . Northamber | RepoR t & Accounts
the group has considerable financial resources and established market profile and relationships 
with a number of suppliers and customers . As a consequence, the directors believe that the group 
is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current economic outlook .
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the 
financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future . For this reason the directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements .
Relations with Shareholders
the directors, particularly the chairman, attend meetings with the company's institutional 
shareholders throughout the year . Formal presentations are made to analysts and institutional 
shareholders following the announcement of the annual and interim results to discuss issues and 
obtain feedback .
notice of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working 
days prior to the meeting . directors attend the AGM and will be available to answer shareholders' 
questions .
Accountability & Audit
Financial Reporting
the board believes that its Annual Reports and Accounts represent a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the group's and company's position and prospects whilst also complying with the 
legal and regulatory requirements for financial reporting relevant to the company .
Internal Control
the board of directors has overall responsibility for the group's systems of internal control and for 
monitoring their effectiveness .
the board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational 
and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines 
of responsibilities and delegation of authority . there are established procedures for planning, 
capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the group's business 
and its performance . the board has delegated to executive management the implementation of 
the systems of internal control within an established framework that applies within the group .
the group's control systems address key business and financial risks . the board considers the 
greatest risks to be related to the realisable value of current assets, principally inventories and 
trade receivables . p articular attention is paid to all matters relating to purchasing, inventories, 
revenues, trade receivables, cash, capital expenditure and foreign exchange . comprehensive 
documented procedures are used and are available to all staff via the extensive computer system .
A system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss . As and when areas of improvement are brought to the attention of the board 
and management steps are taken to further embed internal control and risk management into the 
operations of the business .
the board has considered the need for internal audit but has decided that because of the size of 
the group it cannot be justified at present .
A review of internal control was undertaken by the board in August 2008, a further review of the 
control procedures and risk factors pertaining to the company was undertaken in June 2009 . the 
conclusions of both these reviews were that the systems and operations of the internal controls 
remained effective and appropriate to the operations of the company .
18 RepoR t & Accounts | Northamber 19
Other Matters
the directors are in the process of formalising those corporate Governance policies which the 
directors consider are relevant to the company and will publish the policies when finalised which is 
anticipated to be prior to the end of the next financial year . As part of this process the evaluation of 
the board's performance will be undertaken as will the appraisal of the chairman's performance .
Induction programmes for new directors are specifically designed for each director as appointed 
as the content varies depending on the background and experience of the appointee . there is 
therefore no standard induction programme for new directors .
By order of the Board
S.Yoganathan ACMA
Company Secretary
24 september 2009