 Corporate Governance 11
Corporate Governance - Statement of Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code 
Northgate Information Solutions plc ( Northgate') is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance throughout the
Group and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings. The Board has considered the Principles of Good
Governance and Code of Best Practice contained within the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as incorporated within
the Listing Rules and can confirm that Northgate has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code during the year ended
30 April 2003.
This Corporate Governance statement is intended to highlight the most important ways in which the principles have been applied.
The Board of Directors
As at 30 April 2003, the Board comprised five Directors, three of whom are Non-Executive, totally independent, have no day-to-day
management responsibilities within the Group and are free from any conflicts of interest.
The Board leads and maintains effective control over Northgate's activities. The Directors' biographies appear on page 10 and these
demonstrate that the Board has within it the necessary range of backgrounds, qualities and experience to lead the Company. Northgate
has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive to differentiate the running of the Board from the executive responsibility for the
running of the Company's businesses. In addition to the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive, the Board consists of one
other Executive Director and two other Non-Executive Directors.
New Board appointments are selected through the Group's Nomination Committee and approved by the Board. On appointment, new
Board members are familiarised with the business and, on an ongoing basis, managers of the business present to the Board to explain
the initiatives they are undertaking or planning, and certain key internal projects report to sub-committees of the Board.
Northgate has applied the Combined Code principles by retaining 100% Non-Executive membership of the principal Corporate
Governance Committees (Audit, Remuneration and Nomination).
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at
general meetings at least every three years. Attendance is expected at all Board meetings by all Directors except in special
circumstances. The Board is supplied with appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties.
Members of the Board meet at least twelve times a year, with twelve formal Board meetings. The Board has a schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decision, including strategy, financial policy and major acquisitions and disposals. There is a clear division
of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive. The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors as a
group are of a sufficient calibre and number to bring strength of independence to the Board and has nominated Dr D Hine as the most
senior independent Director other than the Chairman.
All of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has, by means of the Audit
Committee, established a procedure for any Director, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Group's expense. The
Company Secretary ensures that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
NORTHGATE INFORMAT ION SOLUTIONS PLC NORTHGATE INFORMAT ION SOLUTIONS PLC
Corporate Governance 
(continued)
12
Principal Board Committees
Audit Committee 
This Committee is responsible for overseeing the involvement of the Group's Auditors in the planning and review of the Group's Annual
Report and Accounts and Interim Report, for the appointment and fees of its Auditors and for discussing with them the findings of the
audit and issues arising from the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial
information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management and the audit process. It comprises all the Non-
Executive Directors, is chaired by Dr D Hine and meets at least four times a year. Normally the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director
and Group Internal Audit Manager attend the meetings; however the Committee is empowered to meet without Executive Board
members present.
Remuneration Committee
Ensures the Executive Directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded, giving due regard to the financial and
commercial health of the Group. It comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, is chaired by J R Fryer and meets at least twice a year.
When necessary, the Committee is independently advised by remuneration consultants.
Nomination Committee
Keeps under review the Board structure, size and composition; selects and proposes to the Board suitable candidates for appointment
as Directors of the Group and considers Board succession plans. It comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, is chaired by N J Irens and
meets as required.
Shareholder Relations
The Group is committed to ongoing regular communication with shareholders. This is achieved principally through regular Annual and
Interim Reports and the AGM.
Regular dialogue and presentations take place throughout the year with institutional investors. At the AGM all shareholders attending
have the opportunity to ask questions of the full Board including the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees.
Responsibility for Risk and Internal Control
The Group's overriding objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the needs of customers, employees and
partners. In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's approach to assessing risk and the systems of internal control, and for monitoring
their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks. This
includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures. The role of executive management is
to implement the Board's policies on risk and control and present assurance on compliance with these policies. Further independent
assurance is provided by an internal audit function which operates across the Group, and by the external auditors. All employees are
accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,
the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives. Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. 13
Risk Assessment
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. As an
integral part of planning and review, management from each business area identify their risks, the probability of those risks occurring,
the impact if they do occur and the actions/strategy being taken to manage those risks to the desired level. This information is
communicated upwards on a filter basis, culminating in a discussion of the Group Risk Profile by the Board.
This process has operated for the year under review and will continue going forward.
It has been reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
Internal Control
Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues,it has
delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. There
are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Group's
businesses and their performances. These include:
  review of divisional operating plans with the relevant Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
  regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts.
  monthly comparison of each operating division's actual financial performance with budget.
  operating policies and procedures.
  regular reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board.
Assurance
On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Group's:
  assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and a report from internal audit on the risk assessment process.
  systems of internal control primarily through agreeing the scope of the internal audit programme and reviewing its findings, reviews
of the annual and interim financial statements and a review of the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken.The work of the internal audit department
is focused on areas of priority as identified by the risk analysis and in accordance with the annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee
and the Board. External auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements. They review and test the systems of internal
financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion. They discuss with
management the reporting of operational results and the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal control.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Directors confirm that, for the year ended 30 April 2003, the Group complied with all the code provisions.
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors believe it is reasonable to expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue
in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
J R Stier 
Secretary
26 June 2003 
NORTHGATE INFORMAT ION SOLUTIONS PLC