 16
The Acal Group is committed to effective corporate governance and operates to clear
principles and procedures of control appropriate to a multinational business. This statement
describes how Acal applies the principles of governance, particularly those set out in The
Combined Code issued by the UK Listing Authority.
Throughout the year Acal has been in compliance with the combined Code on Corporate
Governance.
The Board of Acal
Acal is led by a strong and experienced Board. It comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, a
Finance Director, an Executive Director and, until his retirement on 23 May 2003, a part-time
Executive Director as well as three independent Non-executive Directors. Mr R J Williams is
designated as the Senior Non-executive Director. Following the retirement of Mr A B Brooker at
the Annual General Meeting held on 18 July 2002, Mr E A Barton was appointed by the Board of
Directors as a non-executive director on 1 August 2002. Brief details of the experience of each of
the directors are set out on page 14. 
The Company believes that it has a balance of executive and non-executive directors
appropriate for a business of its size.
Members of the Board, which reserves to itself decisions on certain important matters, have a
broad range of business and financial skills and experience and the Non-executive Directors bring
to it independent judgement which is fundamental to good corporate governance. The Company
considers all of its non-executive directors to be fully independent. The Board is satisfied that no
individual has or had unfettered powers of decision.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year. Directors are briefed on issues
arising at board meetings, board papers are distributed well in advance of meetings, and due
consideration is given to the adequacy of the information provided before making decisions. All
Directors are invited to request any additional information they wish to have and to comment on
the timeliness and quality of information. In addition to board papers, information on the Group's
performance is sent to directors each month and telephone contact or ad hoc meetings are
arranged to keep the full Board abreast of developments. Minutes of key executive and financial
management meetings are circulated to the Board. Copies of all press announcements made by
the Company, as well as any stockbrokers' reports on the Company to which it has access, are
also circulated to the Board.
The Company's Articles of Association require that one third of the directors retire by rotation
each year and seek re-election. In addition, any director appointed by the Board must retire and
seek re-election at the next Annual General Meeting. It is Acal's policy to operate these
provisions in a manner which ensures that each director faces re-election at least once every three
years.
The Board has established an Audit Committee, an Executive Directors' Remuneration
Committee (the Remuneration Committee ), a Non-executive Directors' Remuneration
Committee and a Nominations Committee. Details of the membership of these committees are
set out on page 15. Mr A B Brooker was a member of the Remuneration and Nomination
Committees and Chairman of the Audit Committee until his retirement. Mr E A Barton assumed
these roles upon his appointment to the Board.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr E A Barton and meets at least twice a year. It is
responsible for reviewing the scope and results of the audit, the accounting policies and systems of
internal control of the group as well as the effectiveness and cost-efficiency of the audit. In
addition it considers and monitors the independence and objectivity of the auditors as well as the
extent of any non-audit services provided by the auditors and the need or otherwise for an internal
audit function. The interim statement, the preliminary announcement of results and the annual
financial statements are considered by the Audit Committee prior to their approval by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr R J Williams and also meets at least twice a
year. It makes recommendations to the Board on all aspects of senior executive remuneration and
determines on behalf of the Board the remuneration packages and terms of employment of the
executive directors. The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out on pages 20 to 24.
Corporate Governance 17
The Non-executive Directors' Remuneration Committee
The Non-executive Directors' Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr J A H Curry and
meets at least annually to consider and to determine on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of
the non-executive directors. It also determines the terms of engagement of the non-executive
directors.
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr J A H Curry and meets as necessary to review
and to make recommendations to the Board in respect of candidates for appointment to the Board.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board believes that it is an important part of its responsibilities to maintain effective and
timely communications with the Company's shareholders and institutional investors. The Company's
Annual Report includes a statement from the Chairman, an operations review by the Chief Executive
and a financial review by the Finance Director. At the half-year an Interim Report is published.
Throughout the year regular meetings are held with institutional shareholders as well as
stockbroking analysts. Investor relations information as well as presentations and news releases
are made available on the Company's website (address: www.acalplc.co.uk). Members of the
Board and the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees are available at the Annual
General Meeting to answer any questions and throughout the year the Company responds to any
questions from shareholders generally.
Internal Control
The Combined Code includes a requirement that the Board review the Group's system of
internal controls. This requirement covers all controls including operational, compliance, risk
management as well as financial controls. Formal guidance on the review of non-financial controls
was published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in September 1999
and following that the Board approved a framework for the implementation of this guidance. The
relevant procedures have been in place throughout the year ended 31st March 2003 and up to
the date of this annual report.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and regularly
reviews the effectiveness of the system. Whilst no system of controls can provide absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Group's system is designed to provide
reasonable assurance that any problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with
appropriately. In establishing and reviewing the system of internal controls, the Board has regard
to the significance of the risks involved, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of
the relevant controls.
The foundation of the Group's system of internal controls is the value which it places on the
quality and integrity of its employees. Its principal components are:-
  a clearly defined organisation structure with short and clear reporting lines;
  an ongoing process for the identification, regular review and management of the principal
risks and issues affecting the business, both at Group and operating company levels;
  a regular review of the principal suppliers and customers of the Group, and how each
impacts upon the Group's business;
  a comprehensive planning process which starts with a strategic plan and culminates in an
annual budget;
  regular forecasting throughout the year of orders, sales, profitability, cash flow and balance
sheets;
  regular review of actual performance against budget and forecasts;
  clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of major new investments and commitments;
  a requirement for each operating company to maintain a system of internal controls
appropriate to its own local business environment; and
  an annual process under which each operating company reviews its own system of internal
controls and reports on the results to the Board.
The above procedures encompass Acal plc and its subsidiary companies, but do not include
the Group's associated undertakings which operate their own individual systems of internal
control. Acal endeavours to persuade associated undertakings to comply with similar standards of
internal control to its subsidiaries.
The Board receives regular submissions from management concerning the matters set out
above and other matters relevant to internal controls and the identification, evaluation and
Corporate Governance 18
Corporate Governance
management of risk. In addition, the Board has conducted a specific annual review of the
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls and risk management. The Group has
embedded internal control and risk management into the operations of the business and
continues to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and
the Board. The Board has considered the need for a separate internal audit function and
concluded that this would not be appropriate at present as the objectives, processes and
responsibilities of such a function have been built into the review and monitoring roles in the
management structure of the Group. In addition, the external auditors report to the Audit
Committee on any inconsistencies between what they find in the course of their work and the
internal control system of the Group.
Going Concern
Having taken into account the cash flow projections of the Group and the banking facilities
available to it, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements
on the going concern basis.