 STATEMENT OF POLICY
The Board supports the principles of the Combined Code relating to Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice, which was issued
in June 1998.The Board considers that the Company complied fully throughout the year with the recommendations of the Combined
Code, except as noted below .
THE BOARD
The Board, which comprises three executive and five non-executive directors (of whom four are considered to be independent), meets
formally at least seven times a year, and receives such information, as is required to properly fulfill its duties. During 2002 seven formal
meetings were held, and with the exception of Mark Quartermaine (who attended 6), and Stuart Rose (who attended 5); all of the
directors attended all of the meetings.The Company has a procedure under which directors are entitled to take independent advice at
the expense of the Company and all have access to the services of the company secretary.
Howard Stotland served as Executive Chairman until 11 February 2002, when Angus Monro was appointed as Non-executive Chairman.
The balance and experience of non-executive and executive directors throughout 2002 was considered to be appropriate.The Board
considers that the calibre and qualifications of the non-executive directors are sufficient to exert an independent influence on the Board.
All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent with the exception of S A Moorer Jnr., who held the position of exec-
utive director of NSB prior to his appointment. None of the directors currently holds common directorships with any other company.
Operational control is delegated by the Board to the executive directors.
Executive directors are not allowed to take on any major outside appointment.
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee. Each committee has
had a majority of non-executive directors throughout the year, and the Remuneration Committee members are all independent non-
executive directors.The T erms of Reference and constitution of the committees were reviewed by the Board during the year.
A senior independent non-executive director is appointed, and Stuart Rose currently holds this position.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of 2 years, and their appointment is automatically renewable, subject to 3
months notice from the director or the Company . In this respect the Company does not comply with the Combined Code.The letters of
appointment for non-executive directors will be reviewed in 2003, and the term of appointment will be amended to comply with the Code.
Under the Company's Articles of Association all directors are subject to re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting following
their first appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee, which consists wholly of non-executive directors, is chaired by A R Abraham and includes A Monro,
M A Chatwin, S A Moorer and S A Rose. It is responsible for reviewing matters relating to financial reporting, internal control and 
other corporate governance issues.The external auditors participate in meetings of the Audit Committee and report on matters arising
from their audit work.The committee meets formally at least four times a year, with five meetings being held in 2002.With the 
exception of S A Rose, who attended three meetings, all of the meetings were attended by all of the committee members.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee, which is comprised of a majority of non-executive directors, is chaired by A Monro and includes 
N S Beckett, M A Chatwin,A R Abraham, S A Moorer and S A Rose. It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on 
proposed new appointments of executive and non-executive directors.The committee meets as and when required.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee, which consists wholly of independent non-executive directors, is chaired by M A Chatwin and includes
A Monro, S A Rose and A R Abraham. It is responsible for reviewing the remuneration and incentive arrangements for the executive
directors, as well as other remuneration policies.The committee is also responsible for reviewing succession plans in respect of directors
and senior executives, and it administers the executive share option plans.The committee meets formally at least twice a year and met
three times on a formal basis in 2002.With the exception of A Monro and S A Rose (who attended 2), all of the formal meetings were
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002      27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT attended by all of the committee members.The committee also met on a number of other occasions to deal with share option scheme
and other matters.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS
The Company maintains a dialogue with its institutional shareholders through a combination of meetings and analysts' briefings both at
the interim and year-end results stage.The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a regular dialogue with its shareholders to
ensure that the Company's strategy is understood and that any concerns are addressed in a constructive way.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the Annual General Meeting where relevant aspects of the Company's operations
can be questioned and discussed with the directors.
The directors remain committed to an ongoing and progressive investor relations programme.
GOING CONCERN
In compliance with the recommendation of the Combined Code to report that the business is a going concern, after making enquiries,
the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foresee-
able future and the financial statements will be prepared on the going concern basis.The directors believe this to be appropriate for the 
following reasons.
The Group made an operating loss before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2002 of
 383,000 and incurred exceptional reorganisation, rationalisation and bad debt charges of  8,814,000.At 31 December 2002 the Group
had net cash balances of  3,974,000.The directors have prepared their 2003 budget and cash projections for the 15 month period ended
31 March 2004 which take into account the effects of the reorganisation the Group has carried out.
These projections show that the Group will generate cash in the fifteen month period which together with the Bank facilities in
place will enable the Group to meet its liabilities as they fall due. These include provision for the scheduled repayment on 31 January
2004 of Canadian $12 million to the holders of the Exchangeable Convertible Preference Shares ( ECPS').
Due to the nature of the Group's business there can be unpredictable variation in the timing of cash flows. Accordingly the 
directors have obtained an undertaking from the holders of the ECPS that they will, both jointly and severably, defer the date of part
redemption of the ECPS from 31 January 2004 until 31 March 2004. In the event the projections are not being met the directors will
take actions to safeguard the cash generation including a tighter control on costs and any other appropriate measures.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide them with rea-
sonable assurance that internal controls used within the business are adequate including financial, operational and compliance control and
risk management, and for ensuring that assets are safeguarded and therefore, shareholders investment is protected.There are limitations
in any system of internal control and, accordingly, even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assur-
ance with respect to the preparation of financial information and the safeguarding of assets and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In line with past practice the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviewed the internal control system to ensure that it remains
effective at the date of this report.
The Turnbull report provides further guidance as to how the Combined Code principles on internal control should be applied in
practice.The contents of this report have been carefully considered by the Board and taken into account in the process of identifying,
managing and reviewing the risks faced by the business.
The key procedures that the directors have established and which are designed to provide effective internal control and risk assess-
ment for the Group are:
  The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to
executive management. Individuals are formally made aware of their level of authority and their budgetary responsibility, which
allows for the identification and monitoring of financial performance.
28      NSB RETAIL SYSTEMS PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT   Annual budgets are prepared with input from executive managers responsible for the different business disciplines. Budgets are
updated through a system of quarterly forecasts.
  Management accounts are produced each month and the financial results are measured against the budget and forecasts to identify
any significant variations.
  A Group Management Board consisting of Executive Directors and the senior executives responsible for the functional areas of the
business meets periodically to consider financial and operational matters relevant to the business.
  The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, continues to review the major risks to the business.These are assessed and respon-
sibility allocated to minimise them.
  The Group appoints staff of the necessary calibre to fulfill their allotted responsibilities.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has performed a review of the effectiveness of the internal controls in operation at the
date of this report.The process that the Audit Committee has followed has been to review the risk register maintained by the Company ,
which is updated on an annual basis, and which includes an assessment of the impact of the risks on the organisation and associated action
points to be addressed by management. Following this review the internal controls operated by the business to mitigate risk have been
re-examined and enhanced as appropriate.
During 2001 the Group acquired a new accounting and information system, which was implemented in 2002.This has led to
improved reporting and internal control procedures at all levels within the business and further improvements are expected in 2003.
The system has allowed the Group to standardise on its financial reporting and to improve the quality of its management reporting.
Also, the capture of time within the business, essential for the accurate billing of services as well as for control, has been significantly
enhanced through the replacement by one time-booking system of a number of disparate systems previously utilised.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Board has reviewed the need for an Internal Audit function, and in light of the re-structuring and cost reduction programme being
pursued it was not considered to be appropriate or cost effective, to create a specific internal audit position at this time.This will be
reviewed again in 2003.
Richard Abraham
Chairman of the Audit Committee
18 March 2003
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002      29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT