 NWF Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
20
Corporate governance statement
The Board is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all of the activities of the Group. 
Under the rules of AIM, the Group is not required to comply with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance ( the Code'). Nevertheless, 
the Board has taken steps to comply with the Code in so far as it can be applied practically and appropriately, given the size of the Group 
and the nature of its operations. The main ways in which it does this are described below. 
Board composition and operation
The Board currently comprises two Executive and three Non-Executive Directors. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated 
and clearly understood. The Chief Executive is responsible for the operating performance of the Group. A formal schedule of matters requiring 
Group Board approval is maintained, covering such areas as Group strategy, approval of budgets, financial results, Board appointments 
and dividend policy. The Board normally meets once a month and additional meetings are called when required. Comprehensive briefing 
papers are sent to all Directors prior to each scheduled Board meeting. Directors are able, if necessary, to take independent professional 
advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Company's expense. 
Due to the infrequency of senior appointments, the Board does not maintain a standing Nomination Committee but will form one as appropriate 
when required. The current Chief Executive's and Group Finance Director's appointments were approved by the Board, after receiving a 
recommendation from a committee of the Board consisting of the Non-Executive Directors that was formed specifically for that purpose. 
The committee undertook a comprehensive recruitment process and was assisted by independent external recruitment consultants.
The Board regularly conducts an appraisal of its own performance and that of each Director, consisting of individual assessments using 
prescribed questionnaires that are completed by all Directors. The results are reviewed and individual feedback given, by the Senior 
Non-Executive Director in respect of assessments of the Chairman and by the Chairman in respect of assessments of each of the other 
Directors and of the Board as a whole. 
All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The service contracts of Executive Directors require one year's notice or less.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee consists of all three Non-Executive Directors. It meets formally three times a year, with additional meetings as required. 
The Audit Committee has terms of reference in place which have been formally approved by the Board and will be made available at the 
AGM and on the Company's website. Its primary responsibilities include reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal control systems 
and monitoring the integrity of the Group's financial statements and external announcements of the Group's results.
The Audit Committee also approves the appointment and remuneration of the Group's external auditors and satisfies itself that they 
maintain their independence regardless of any non-audit work performed by them.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and external auditors in connection with the financial statements are explained in the Statement 
of Directors' Responsibilities on page 22 and the auditors' reports on pages 23 and 53. Details of services provided by and fees payable to 
the auditors are shown in note 5 of the Group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the Company's external auditors for many years. The Audit Committee considers that the relationship 
with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness. Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to require 
the firm to tender for the audit work. The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits 
every five years. The current audit partner was first appointed in respect of the financial year ended 31 May 2010. There are no contractual 
obligations restricting the Company's choice of auditor. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of all three Non-Executive Directors. Its remit is to determine, on behalf of the Board, appropriate 
short and long-term total reward packages for the Executive Directors of the Group and its subsidiaries. The Remuneration Committee 
will also satisfy itself that good practices apply to all Group employees through the relevant management structures. Its terms of reference 
will be made available at the AGM and on the Company's website.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors have received appointment letters setting out their terms of reappointment. Appointment of new Non-Executive 
Directors is initially for one year with renewal for two-year terms if performance is satisfactory. The Chairman has served for more than ten 
years on the Board and, whilst this does not comply with the Code's definition of independence, the Board considers that his experience 
is invaluable to the Group. The Board considers that the other two Non-Executive Directors meet the tests of independence. 
The appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to the Board is considered by the whole Board.
_2_NWF_ar10_back.indd   3 13/08/2010   15:22:08 NWF Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
21
About NWF Corporate Governance Financial Statements Notice of Annual General Meeting
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control, to provide it with reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial information that is used within the business and for publication and the safeguarding of assets. There 
are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. Some examples of internal controls operated by the Group are given below 
and elsewhere in this statement.
The Group's organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility. Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated 
to operational management. 
There is a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual results to the budgets 
approved by the Group Board. Management accounts are prepared for each subsidiary company and for the Group on a monthly basis. 
Significant variances from budget are thoroughly investigated. In addition, updated profitability forecasts are prepared to reflect actual 
performance and revised outlook as the year progresses.
Cash flow forecasts are prepared regularly, to ensure that the Group has adequate funds for the foreseeable future.
Investment policy, acquisition proposals and major capital expenditure projects are authorised and monitored by the Group Board.
The Group's risk management programme, which assesses key risks and the required internal controls that are delegated to Directors 
and managers at all levels in the Group, is reviewed regularly in order to ensure that it continues to meet the Board's requirements.
Shareholders
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors will always make themselves available to meet with shareholders. Each AGM is a particular 
opportunity for this. Normal relationships with shareholders are maintained by the Executive Directors who brief the Board on shareholder 
issues and who relate the views of the Group's advisers to the Board.
Share capital structures
Details of the Company's share capital can be found in the  Takeovers directive' section of the Directors' Report and in note 22 of the Group 
financial statements.
Going concern basis
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Business and Financial Review. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described 
in the Business and Financial Review. In addition, note 20 of the Group financial statements includes the Group's objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposure to price, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk.
With effect from 1 July 2010, the Group has a new agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group for senior credit facilities totalling 
 51.0 million. Further details can be found in note 19 of the Group financial statements and the Business and Financial Review.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
annual financial statements.
_2_NWF_ar10_back.indd   4 13/08/2010   15:22:08