 Oxeco Plc
8 Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2010
Corporate Governance Statement
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Directors recognise the importance of sound corporate governance and intend
to ensure that, at all times, the Company continues to apply policies and procedures
which reflect the principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice as
published by the Committee on Corporate Governance (commonly, known as the
Combined Code ) as are appropriate to the size, nature and stage of development
of the Company. The Directors endeavour to comply with the Quoted Company
Alliance Guidelines in such respects as are appropriate for a company of its size,
nature and stage of development following Admission.
The Board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the Company's
strategy, budgets and corporate actions. The Directors hold Board meetings quarterly
and at other times as and when required.
The Company has established audit and remuneration committees of the Board with
formally delegated duties and responsibilities.
The Board
The Board currently comprises one executive and two non-executive Directors.
Audit Committee
The audit committee's primary responsibilities are to monitor the integrity of the
financial affairs and statements of the Company, to ensure that the financial
performance of the Company and any subsidiary of the Company is properly
measured and reported on, to review reports from the Company's auditors relating
to accounting and internal controls and to make recommendations relating to the
appointment of the external auditors.
The audit committee comprises the two non-executive Directors, Gordon Hall and
Graham Richards, with Gordon as chairperson. The committee will meet not less
than twice in each financial year.
Remuneration Committee
The responsibilities and composition of the remuneration committee are described
in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 6.
Nominations Committee
The Directors do not consider that, given the size of the Board, it is appropriate at this
stage to have a nominations committee. However, this will be kept under regular
review by the Board.
Internal Control
Ora (Guernsey) Limited (Ora ) holds, as at 31 January 2010, shares representing
approximately 45.25 per cent. of the Company's issued share capital. The Directors
are satisfied that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently
of Ora and that all transactions and relationships between Ora and the Company are
and will continue to be at arm's length and on commercial terms.
To ensure that Shareholders are adequately protected in this regard, the Company
has entered into a relationship agreement with Ora pursuant to which it has given
certain undertakings to the Company to the effect that the Board can operate on an
independent basis.
130035 Oxeco Annual Report.qxd  26/3/10  3:38 pm  Page 8 Oxeco Plc
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2010 9
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control. The
Board has in place measures designed to manage, not eliminate risk and to provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Some key features of the internal control system are:
(i) Management accounts information and business risk issues are regularly
reviewed by the Board who meet at least 4 times per year;
(ii) The Company has operational, accounting and employment policies in place;
(iii) There is a clearly defined organisational structure and there are well-established
financial reporting and control systems; and
(iv) Accounting systems and procedures will be reviewed at least annually as the
business grows in order to ensure that they are appropriate to the size and
complexity of the business.
Investing policy
  To invest in companies or projects in the science and technology sectors;
  To invest through limited liability vehicles including company acquisitions; joint
ventures and minority holdings, or where appropriate through the purchase of
pure intellectual property;
  Any such acquisition may be deemed a reverse takeover as per AIM Rule 14;
  The investment may be passive or active which will be driven by the size of the
stake and the Company would like to retain the flexibility to assess this on a case
by case basis; and
  The Company will not be seeking to define any length of time to any investment
nor any target returns at this stage. 
Going Concern
The Group has considerable financial resources available. As at 31 January 2010,
the Group has cash and cash equivalents of  2.3 million. As a response to market
conditions, the Group has continued to maintain a low cost base and took the
decision in the year to wind down its subsidiary, Oxray Limited, to help preserve cash
in the short-term. In addition, if a new investment presents itself which would require
additional funding, any necessary additional facilities will be sought and agreed prior
to committing the Group to such an investment to ensure that the Group's ability to
trade is not affected. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Financial instruments
The Group's financial instruments include cash, trade receivables and trade payables
arising directly from its operations. The existence of these financial instruments
exposes the Group to a number of financial risks, which are described in more detail
below.
130035 Oxeco Annual Report.qxd  26/3/10  3:38 pm  Page 9 Oxeco Plc
10 Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2010
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
The main risks arising from the Group's financial instruments are interest rate risk,
credit risk and liquidity risk. The Directors review and agree policies for managing risk
at least annually.
Interest rate risk
The Group has no external financing facilities therefore its interest rate risk is limited
to the level of interest received on its cash surpluses. Interest rate risk on cash and
cash equivalents is mitigated by using fixed-rate deposit accounts.
Liquidity risk
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk by ensuring sufficient funds are available
to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably. The Group
had net cash balances of  2.3 million as at 31 January 2010 (2009:  2.5 million).
Credit risk
The Group's principal financial asset is cash. The credit risk associated with cash is
limited and cash is held on deposit at established banks with high credit ratings.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors' Report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and company financial
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required by the AIM Rules of the
London Stock Exchange to prepare group financial statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ) as adopted by the European
Union (EU ) and have elected under company law to prepare the company financial
statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS adopted by the EU to present
fairly the financial position of the group and the company and the financial
performance of the group and the company. The Companies Act 2006 provides in
relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to
financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair
presentation.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group
and the company and of the profit or loss of the group and the company for that
period.
In preparing the group and company financial statements, the Directors are required
to:
a. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
b. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
c. state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by
the EU;
130035 Oxeco Annual Report.qxd  26/3/10  3:38 pm  Page 10 Oxeco Plc
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2010 11
d. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will continue in
business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are
sufficient to show and explain the group's and the company's transactions and
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and
the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the group and the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Oxeco
website, www.oxecoplc.com.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
130035 Oxeco Annual Report.qxd  26/3/10  3:38 pm  Page 11