 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
60
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2009
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Rental income
Rental income from the Group's redundant former research and development facility in San Diego, USA is offset in the statement of comprehensive
income against the rent payable under the head lease.
Employee benefit costs
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for its Directors and employees.The assets of the scheme are held in independently
administered funds.The pension cost charge recognised in the period represents amounts payable by the Group to the scheme.
Share based payment
Equity settled share based payments under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments (options)
are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award. Options issued on the
same date are valued in batches where the valuation model assumptions are the same. At each financial year end, the Group revises its estimate of
the number of options in each batch that are expected to become exercisable. At the end of the vesting period for each batch of options the
cumulative charge for share-based payment reflects the actual options that have vested, with no charge for those options which were forfeit prior
to vesting.The financial consequences of revisions to the original estimates, if any, are recognised in the current year statement of comprehensive
income either as an addition to or a deduction from the charge for share-based payment, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The fair value of share options is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.Where complex market performance criteria exist, a Monte
Carlo model has been used to establish the fair value on grant.When share options are exercised the proceeds received are credited to share capital
(nominal value) and share premium.
Other employee benefits
The expected cost of compensated short term absence (e.g. holidays) is recognised when employees render services that increase their entitlement.
Accrual is made for holidays earned but not taken, and prepayments recognised for holidays taken in excess of days earned.
Foreign currency translation
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group's entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the entity operates (the  functional currency').The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Company's
functional and the Group's presentational currency.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the
financial year.Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the
transaction. Foreign exchange differences are taken to the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Assets and liabilities of the Company's US subsidiary are translated to Sterling at the year-end exchange rate, whilst its statements of income and
cash flows are translated at monthly average rates. Redundant assets at the US subsidiary's former laboratories have been written down to a book
value of zero and have no impact on present or future exchange differences.Translation differences that arise are taken directly to a currency
translation account within equity.
Taxation including deferred income tax
The charge/credit for current tax is based on the results for the year, adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed. It is calculated using
tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the financial year end.
Deferred income tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying
amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. In principle,
deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that
it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests
in joint ventures, except where the Group and Company are able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax is calculated at the average tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is
settled. Deferred income tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items credited or charged
directly to equity, in which case the deferred income tax is also dealt with in equity.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
61
2 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Financial risk factors
The Group's relatively simple structure, principally operating in the United Kingdom, and the lack of debt financing reduces the range of financial risks
to which it is exposed. Monitoring of financial risk is part of the Board's ongoing risk management, the effectiveness of which is reviewed annually.The
Group's agreed policies are implemented by the Chief Financial Officer, who submits reports at each Board meeting. Other than occasional use of short
term currency options, the Group does not use financial derivatives, and it is the Group's policy not to undertake any trading in financial instruments.
(a) Foreign exchange risk
At the current time,the Group's revenues are mostly receivable in United States Dollars, and certain of its expenditures are payable in Euros and
US Dollars.The majority of operating costs are denominated in Sterling.The Group's ongoing R&D funding from sanofi-aventis is receivable in
US Dollars.This presents a possible source of foreign exchange risk in respect of future receipts. Funds received from sanofi-aventis to date have been
converted to Sterling, so they no longer represent a foreign exchange risk.The Group uses short term currency purchase options and interest-bearing
deposits in Euros and US Dollars to manage short term fluctuations in exchange rates.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group does not have any committed borrowing facilities, as its cash balances are sufficient to finance its current operations.The Group's policy is
to maximise interest receivable on deposits, subject to maintaining access to sufficient liquid funds to meet day to day operational requirements, and
preserving the security of invested funds.To date, interest received on bank deposits has made a significant contribution to providing funding for the
Group. Interest receivable on bank deposits in 2009 was  642,000 (2008:  1,661,000). Interest rates across the market fell dramatically at the end of
2008, and this is reflected in much lower bank interest in 2009.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher/lower in 2009, the impact on net loss in 2009 would have been a decrease/increase of  236,000
(2008:  289,000) due to changes in the amount of interest receivable.
(c) Credit risks
The Group's policy is to place funds with financial institutions rated at least A and to distribute deposits between several banks.
(d) Cash flow and liquidity risk
At present the Group's operations are funded from its cash and short-term investments.The maturity profile of investments is structured to ensure
that sufficient liquid funds are available to meet planned operating requirements.To date the Group's funding has been provided mainly by the issue
of shares and from commercial collaborations, including the TroVax and ocular collaborations with sanofi-aventis. Future working capital is expected
to be provided by commercial collaborations. Such collaborations typically provide funding from milestone-based payments, which are significant in
size but infrequent.There can be no certainty that this source of funding will be sufficient, and that additional funding from other sources, including
the issue of further shares, will not be required. In planning the Group's activities and its financial resources, the Directors take account of the
probability receiving income from commercial collaborations, and of the likely availability of other sources of funding.The higher degree of risk-
aversion that we continue to see in equity capital markets makes the issue of new share capital challenging in the near term.The Group's spending
plans have been set to achieve a balance between adding value to the key development programmes while seeking to maximise the operating
window provided by current funds.The Directors' current financial projections provide a reasonable basis from which they have concluded that the
Group's financial resources are sufficient for the foreseeable future, and that there is presently no material cash flow or liquidity risk.
(e) Pricing risk
Currently revenue derives from collaboration milestones and reimbursement of funded research and development, which are not sensitive to pricing risk.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
There were no derivatives at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008, and hedge accounting has not been used.
Fair value estimates
The fair value of short term deposits with a maturity of one year or less is assumed to be the book value.
Introduction Chairman's Statement Business Review Corporate Information Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
Appendix