 Corporate Governance
Companies who have their securities traded on AIM are not required to comply with the disclosure requirements of the UK
Corporate Governance Code (2010). The Board, however, has determined that the Group should maintain high standards of
corporate governance and whilst not fully complying within this report with the UK Corporate Governance Code, including the
full disclosure requirements, has adopted procedures and has taken steps to adopt the underlying principles, in so far as
appropriate given the size of the Group and the nature of its operations.
Board of Directors
The Group is controlled by the Board of Directors which comprises two Executives, one of whom is the Chief Executive, and
three Non-executive Directors. All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent. This is notwithstanding the
fact that the company has a business development consultancy arrangement with Dr Andrew Jamieson. This business
development arrangement enables the company to benefit from the expertise and contacts of Dr Jamieson but is not material
in either the amount of time required from Dr Jamieson, nor in the amount of income that it provides and therefore is not
considered to have any impact on his ability to be considered independent. The roles of Chief Executive and Chairman are
separate. All Directors are able to take independent advice to assist them in their duties if necessary. The detailed biographies
of all directors are provided on the Group's website. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and meets formally at least six times a year
to set the overall direction and strategy of the Group, to review operating and financial performance and to consider and advise
on senior management appointments. The Board also monitors and approves financial policy and budgets, including capital
expenditure. All key operational decisions are subject to Board approval. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring
that Board procedures are followed and that any and all applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. In addition, one third of
Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board has introduced a process for evaluating the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. This is by means of a
questionnaire survey of all Board members and other relevant senior executives.
Committees of the Board
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors chaired by Dr Andrew Jamieson. This committee reviews,
inter-alia, the performance of the Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and basis of their
service agreements, having due regard to the interests of shareholders. The Remuneration Committee also determines the
allocation of share options to Executive Directors. No Director has a service agreement exceeding one year.
One of the policies of the Remuneration Committee is that no individual participates in discussions or decisions concerning his
or her own remuneration.
The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out on pages 12 to 14.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Dr Jan Verloop. Under its terms of reference it
meets at least twice a year, and amongst other duties it reviews the monitoring of the Group's internal controls, accounting
policies and financial reporting, and provides a forum through which the external auditors report. It meets at least once a year
with the external auditors without Executive Directors present.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Non-executive Directors, under the chairmanship of Dr Pierre Jungels. It meets at
least once a year, and amongst its other duties it reviews the composition of the Board and its succession planning, and keeps
under review the leadership needs of the Company with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete
effectively in the marketplace.
Senior Management Team
The day-to-day management of the Group is overseen by the Senior Management Team, consisting of the Executive Directors
and other senior managers, under the leadership of the Chief Executive.
Corporate Governance Report
10
Annual Report
and Accounts
2012
Oxford Catalysts 
Group PLC Board and Committee Attendance at Scheduled Board and Committee Meetings
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held in 2012 7 3 1 1
Attendance* by:
  Dr Pierre Jungels 100% 100% 100% 100%
  Mr Roy Lipski 100% n/a n/a n/a
  Mrs Susan Robertson 100% n/a n/a n/a
  Dr Andrew Jamieson 86% 100% 100% 100%
  Dr Jan Verloop 100% 100% 100% 100%
  Mrs Sandy Shaw 100% 100% n/a 100%
* The attendance percentage is based on attendance of applicable meetings. In the case of Mrs Shaw, this includes only those meetings since her
appointment on 1 October 2012.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board considers effective communication with shareholders to be very important, and encourages regular dialogue with
investors. The Board responds promptly to questions received verbally or in writing. Directors regularly attend meetings with
shareholders and analysts throughout the year. Shareholders will be given at least 21 days' notice of the Annual General
Meeting, at which they will have the opportunity to discuss the Group's developments and performance.
The Company's web site www.oxfordcatalysts.com contains full details of the Group's activities, press releases and other
details, as well as a link to the relevant web page of the London Stock Exchange web site for share price details, share trading
activities and graphs, as well as Regulatory News Service (RNS ) announcements.
Maintenance of a Sound System of Internal Control
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide them
with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded and that shareholders' investments are protected.
The system includes internal controls appropriate for a Group of the size of Oxford Catalysts Group PLC, and covers financial,
operational, compliance (including health and safety) and risk management. Such systems are designed to manage, rather
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives; any system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The process in place for reviewing Oxford Catalysts Group PLC systems of
internal control includes procedures designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any
categorised as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Board has considered its policies with regard to internal controls as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and
undertakes assessments of the major areas of the business and methods used to monitor and control them. In addition to
financial risk, the review covers operational, commercial, regulatory and health and safety risks. The risk review is an ongoing
process with reviews being undertaken on a regular basis.
The key procedures designed to provide an effective system of internal controls that are operating up to the date of sign-off of
this report are set out below.
Control Environment
There is an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of accountability and authority.
Risk Management
The Group employs Directors and senior personnel with the appropriate knowledge and experience for a business engaged in
activities in its field of operations, and undertakes regular risk assessments and reviews of its activities.
Financial Information
The Group prepares detailed budget and working capital projections which are approved annually by the Board and are
maintained and updated regularly throughout the year. Detailed management accounts and working capital cash flows are
prepared on a monthly basis and compared to budgets and projections to identify any significant variances.
Management of Liquid Resources
The Board is risk averse when investing the Group's surplus cash. The Group's treasury management policy is reviewed
periodically, sets out strict procedures and limits on how surplus funds are invested.
The Board has considered it inappropriate to establish an internal audit function, given the size of the Group. However, this
decision will be reviewed as the operations of the Group develop.
Review of Corporate Governance Disclosures
The Board has voluntarily complied with those principal Corporate Governance disclosures of the UK Corporate Governance
Code in so far as appropriate given the size of the Company and the nature of its operations. These have not been formally
reviewed by the Group's auditors. The auditors' responsibility extends only to reading this report as a part of the Annual
Report and Accounts and considering whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
11
Annual Report
and Accounts
2012
Oxford Catalysts 
Group PLC