 Corporate Governance
20
Oxonica plc. Leaders in Nanotechnology.
The Board supports the principles set out in the Combined Code and has taken steps to ensure that Oxonica plc is committed to the highest
standards of corporate governance.
At all levels the Group ensures that relevant information is made available to all interested parties and decision making procedures are followed
in strict accordance with the structures laid down.
The Board of Directors
The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors, which currently consists of three executive and five non-executive directors.
The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for decision; these include formulating the Group's corporate
strategy, monitoring financial performance, approval of major items of capital expenditure, share capital issues, governance issues, treasury 
and risk management policies and executive appointments. Prior to each meeting the Board is provided with appropriate strategic and financial
information to enable it to monitor the performance of the Group. Annual budgets are approved by the full Board. Operational control is delegated
by the Board to the executive directors. Non-executive directors are able to contact the executive directors at any time for further information.
All the directors have direct access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary and can take independent advice, if necessary, 
at the Company's expense.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the following committees:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of four non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Martin Hagen. The Committee meets at least twice 
a year and is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported on. The Committee also
meets with the auditors to review reports from them relating to the accounts and internal control systems. Although there is currently no internal
audit function, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the need to implement one. The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors attend,
as necessary. However, the Committee also holds separate meetings with the external auditors, as appropriate.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of four non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Charles Eld and meets periodically as
required. The Committee reviews the performance of the executive directors, sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and reviews 
the basis for their service agreements with due regard to the interests of shareholders. Specifically, the Remuneration Committee reviews and
approves the executive directors' six-monthly performance targets and bonus payments. The Committee also reviews and approves the
remuneration policy for senior employees.
Nominations Committee
Shortly after the year-end, the Board established a separate Nominations Committee. The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer and two independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Martin Hagen. The role of the Nominations Committee 
is to advise and make recommendations to the Board with regard to the size, structure and composition of the Board, the appointment of new
directors and the reappointment of existing directors. Prior to the establishment of a separate Nominations Committee, the responsibility for
nominations rested with the Remuneration Committee. 21
Oxonica plc. Annual Report & Accounts 2006.
The Committees all have written terms of reference which clearly specify their authority and duties and those terms of reference are available
upon written request to the Company.
Attendance at meetings
Board Audit Committe                     Remuneration Committee
(10 meetings in year)                      (3 meetings in year)                      (3 meetings in year)
Meetings Meetings Meetings
during period during period during period
of appointment Attended of appointment Attended of appointment Attended
Executive Directors
C M Moore 10 9 3 0 3 2*
Dr K R K Matthews 10 10 3 1* 3 3*
R J G Clarke 10 10 3 3* 3 0
Non-Executive Directors
C J Eld 10 10 3 3 3 3
M J Hagen 10 10 3 3 3 3
R M Pettigrew 10 9 3 3 3 3
G Ringold 10 9 3 1 3 2
E Weeks 10 9 3 3 3 3
* Attended by invitation
There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee during the year.
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the
Board and for ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. He also ensures effective communication with shareholders and facilitates the
contribution of the non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board as a whole and for managing the Group.
Board balance and independence
Board balance is achieved by the Board being comprised of three executive directors and five non-executive directors. Two of the non-executive
directors, Martin Hagen and Ed Weeks are considered by the Board to be  independent'. 
The senior independent non-executive director is Martin Hagen.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The processes to identify and
manage the key risks to the success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment. Such processes, which are continuing
and regularly reviewed and improved as necessary, include strategic planning, approval of annual budgets, regular monitoring of performance
against budget including full investigation of significant variances, control of capital expenditure and significant revenue investment, ensuring
that proper accounting records are maintained, the appointment of senior managers and the setting of high standards for health, safety and
environmental performance. These processes have been in place for the full financial year and up to the date of approval of the financial
statements.
The effectiveness of the control systems and procedures is monitored regularly through a combination of management self-assessment and
external audit. The results are reported to, and considered by, the Audit Committee.
The system of internal control comprises those controls established in order to provide assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded
against unauthorised use or disposal and to ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information
used within the business or for publication. Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failing to achieve the business objectives of 
the Group. Corporate Governance
- continued 
22
Oxonica plc. Leaders in Nanotechnology.
The key procedures that the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows:
a) a clearly defined organisational structure and limits of authority
b) corporate policies and procedures for financial reporting and control, project appraisal, human resources, quality control, health and
safety, information security and corporate governance
c) the preparation of annual budgets and regular re-forecasts which require approval from the Board
d) the monitoring of performance against budget and forecasts and the reporting of any variances in a timely manner to the Board
e) regular review and self-assessment of the risks to which the Group is exposed, taking steps to monitor and mitigate these wherever
possible including, where appropriate, taking out insurance cover
f) The Audit Committee approves audit plans and, on behalf of the Board, receives reports on the Group's accounting and financial
reporting practices and its internal controls. It also receives reports from the external auditors as part of their normal audit work
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to open communication with all its shareholders. Communication is primarily through the Annual General Meeting,
which shareholders are encouraged to attend and where participation is encouraged. The directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, are all available, both formally during the meeting and informally afterwards, to answer questions.
The Group maintains a website www.oxonica.com which contains up to date information on the Company and which shareholders are advised
to visit regularly. All shareholders receive a copy of the full Annual Report following the year end and an Interim Report at the half year. Care is
taken to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same time. Oxonica aims to provide a full, realistic and
timely assessment of its business and operations in a balanced way, in all price-sensitive reports and presentations.
Institutional investors and analysts are invited to attend briefings by the Company following the announcements of the full-year and half-year
results. Copies of the presentations given at these briefings are posted on the website.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are always available to shareholders on all matters relating to governance. 
Going concern
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to obtain
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis for preparing the financial statements.