 PACIFICMEDIAPLC
7
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Following the investment by MediaXposure Limited (Cayman) into the Company on 30 April 2004, and the consequent
management changes, the Company's compliance with best corporate governance standards remains in an evolving state.  In
particular, the resignation on 29 July 2004 of one non-executive director and on 2 November 2004 of the remaining non-
executive director meant that the Company did not have two non-executive directors for the full year.
The company is however committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in Section 1 of the 2003 Combined
Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the
Board is accountable to shareholders and intends to increase its level of compliance.  R C Harris, Jr. was appointed as a non-
executive director on 1 January 2005 and further non-executive director appointments will be made when the Company is able
to do so.
As a result of the internal control procedures already in place at the beginning of last year and reported in the previous annual
report and accounts, and with the continued strengthening of controls, subject as stated above, the Company continues to fully
adopt the Code.
NARRATIVE STATEMENT
The Code establishes fourteen Principles of Good Governance which are split into the four areas described below.
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which as at the date of approval of the accounts, comprises five
executive and one non-executive directors. The Board considers that the non-executive director, Mr R C Harris, Jr. is
independent of management. The Executive Chairman, Mr D Shaw, is primarily responsible for the efficient working of the
Board and the implementation of the overall strategy and direction of the Group. He ensures that all directors receive sufficient
relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. The Chief Executive, Mr R N Chang, is
responsible for the creation of the strategy as well as the day-to-day management of the business.  All directors are able to take
independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties if necessary.
During the past year the Board has met formally on a quarterly basis and on other occasions as required. The Board is
responsible for overall company strategy, approval of acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure, treasury and consideration
of significant financing matters. It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of individual
trading subsidiaries, their codes of conduct, their annual budgets, their progress towards achievement of those budgets and their
capital expenditure programmes.
All directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment. All
directors, in accordance with the Code, submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Board has established three standing committees - the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations
Committee. These Committees operate within defined terms of reference, although (as stated above) there were periods in the
year when there were not sufficient non-executive directors to form such committees.
Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee (see page 10), measures the performance of the executive directors and key members of senior
management as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and awards of share options to the Board.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors' Remuneration is set out on page 10 and includes details of the
directors' service contracts.  It is intended that the Remuneration Committee be reconvened upon additional non-executive
director(s) being appointed. PACIFICMEDIAPLC
8
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Relations with Shareholders
There is a regular dialogue with institutional and individual shareholders.
The Company encourages shareholders to visit its web-site www.pmplc.com, in order to receive up to date information about the
Company.
All shareholders receive at least 20 working days' notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairmen of the
Company, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are expected to be available for questions.
Accountability and Audit
Financial reporting
Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the Group are included in the Chairman's statement and the
Directors' Report on pages 1 to 6.  The directors' responsibilities for the financial statements are described on page 13.
Internal control
The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for the Group's system of internal control, which is designed to safeguard the
Group's assets against unauthorised use or disposal, ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records and provide reliable
financial information for use within the business and for publication. In fulfilling these responsibilities, and on the basis that a
system of internal control can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss
and that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's objectives, the
Board has conducted for 2004 an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control which covered financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and there are procedures
established to meet the requirements for the system of internal control that are acceptable to the Board and accord with the
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull working party. This system of
internal control was in place for the whole of the year ended 31  December 2004 and steps are being taken to embed internal
controls and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to
the management's and the Board's attention.  The system continues to be regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has considered the risks to the Group and the principal features of the Group's system of internal control are as
follows:
  an established management structure comprising the Board, with its committees and senior managers. The management
structure allows local management to report directly to the Group's Board of Directors and encourages open dialogue;
  the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group will be addressed at all meetings of
the Board of Directors;
  the day-to-day supervision and involvement by the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Executive Directors and Chief
Financial Officer in the management of the Group;
  the Board reviews the monthly management accounts and receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and Executive
Directors; and
  the Board performs a detailed review of all major transactions, approves new investments and regularly monitors existing
investments. PACIFICMEDIAPLC
9
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Although the Group does not currently have a formal internal audit function, the Board reviews the need for this additional
control on a regular basis, taking into account the size of the Group and the nature of its operations.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has specific terms of reference which deal with its authority and duties.  It is intended that, once
additional non-executive director(s) are appointed, it will meet at least twice a year with the external auditors by invitation, to
consider reports relating to the monitoring of the adequacy of the Group's internal controls, to review the annual financial
statements, the accounting policies of the Company, its internal management and matters arising from the external auditors'
work.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee will, once additional non-executive director(s) are appointed, discuss and agree any proposed
nomination to the Board, which is then put forward for approval by the Board.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a
reasonable expectation that the Company will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next twelve
months.  The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions throughout the accounting
period. Apart from the exceptions mentioned above and in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors'
Remuneration and as mentioned below, the Company complied throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2004
with the provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee did not contain at all times the required
number of independent non-executive directors and a Senior Independent Director was not at all times available to meet with a
range of major shareholders to listen to their views, as the Company did not have sufficient non-executive directors.
Steps have been, and are being, taken to seek additional independent non-executive directors with appropriate experience, with
R C Harris, Jr. having been appointed on 1 January 2005.