 13
Papua Mining plc 
Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 
Strategic Report 
 
Review of Operations (Continued)  
 
 
10 
 
The Flying Fox Prospect 
 
The Flying Fox prospect lies some five kilometres north of the Junction prospect and some six   
kilometres north west of Tripela. Mapping of zones of intense clay alteration and the discovery of 
widespread copper mineralisation at surface were followed up with soil geochemical surveys which 
delineated a broad zone of copper-lead-mercury-arsenic anomalism. These results provided the 
impetus for a ground geophysics survey which was completed in the first quarter of 2013. That 
survey defined a north-south trending chargeability anomaly at least 800 metres long which lies 
east of the main geochemical anomaly. 
  
In September 2013 a single drillhole was drilled to a depth of 470 metres targeting the centre of the 
chargeability anomaly. Our geologists logged multiple phases of intrusion occurring extensively 
down the hole below 60 metres depth - an earlier phase of quartz-feldspar andesite porphyry 
dykes was recorded, mineralised with disseminated pyrite +/- copper (primarily in the form of 
chalcopyrite) and a second phase of intrusion of microdiorite mineralised with pyrite-chalcopyrite 
+/-bornite.  However no ore-grade intersections were recorded.  In addition we did not recognise 
porphyry alteration zonation and we feel Flying Fox does not present an immediate target as 
compelling as those at Junction and Tripela. Consequently no further drilling is planned here for 
the time being. 
 
Discoveries on EL2051 and EL2050 
 
During the first quarter of 2014 and while drilling at Tripela was ongoing, the Group's exploration 
team continued to carry out some limited reconnaissance work on a number of our other licence 
areas, most notably EL2051, EL2050 and EL2146. 
 
EL2051, East New Britain/West New Britain 
 
Reconnaissance rock sampling and mapping was completed between March and April 2014. This 
area had been selected for reconnaissance ground surveys based on geological, aerial 
reconnaissance and remote sensing data.  Our field team located evidence of extensive surface 
mineralisation in both float and outcrop in a predominantly intrusive rock suite in the south-eastern 
part of the licence area where well developed copper and zinc mineralisation were observed. 
Assay results have subsequently confirmed that the outcrop and float contain significant gold 
mineralisation with values up to 35.5 grams per tonne. Of 326 samples collected, 28 graded above 
1.0 grams per tonne gold and 13 were greater than 5 grams per tonne gold. The maximum grade 
returned was 35.5 grams per tonne gold from a sulphide rich andesitic outcrop.  Ten samples 
returned grades greater than 1% copper.  The anomalous outcrop falls largely within a zone with a 
north-south extent of 4.5 kilometres and an east-west extent of 1.5 kilometres. 
 
The mineralised zone falls within an area which lies close to the eastern and southern boundaries 
of the EL2051 tenement. The Group has a pre-existing application for ELA1804 which incorporates 
a possible southerly extension of the mineralised zone, immediately adjacent to the southern 
boundary of EL2051.  In May 2014 an application was lodged with the MRA for an area of 
approximately 89 square kilometres contiguous with the eastern boundary of EL2051. 
   
EL2051 is located some 20 kilometres northeast of EL1462, the licence area which includes the 
Tripela, Junction and Flying Fox targets. Follow up geochemical sampling on the target 
commenced in early-June 2014. 
 
EL2050, East New Britain 
 
A short reconnaissance programme was carried out in the Mt. Silo area in the central part of 
EL2050 in November 2013. As with the EL2051 reconnaissance work described above, this area 
was selected for reconnaissance ground surveys based on geological, aerial reconnaissance and 
remote sensing data.  Of particular significance here is the presence of a geological contact 
between the volcanic sequence and the overlying limestone. 
 
139 outcrop and float samples were collected during the field programme. The field team observed 
Papua Mining plc 
Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 
Strategic Report 
 
Review of Operations (Continued)  
 
 
11 
 
significant copper mineralisation within the northern half of the tenement area. The samples were 
analysed using using our in-house XRF analyser.  28 samples returned copper values greater 
than 0.1% with five of those samples yielding values greater than 1% copper.  The anomalous 
copper values were split quite evenly between outcrop and float samples.   
 
EL2050 lies some 25 kilometres east of EL2051 and some 50 kilometres northeast of EL1462. 
 
Follow-up mapping and sampling is planned for this area in mid-2014. 
 
EL2146, West New Britain 
 
The EL2146 licence area is contiguous with the eastern boundary of EL1462. During the year in 
review a reconnaissance ridge and spur soil sampling programme was completed over a ten 
kilometre long (N-S) by five kilometre wide (E-W) area east of the Tripela target area. Some 
clustering of point anomalies for copper and other pathfinder elements is evident from the resulting 
assay data in the northwest and northeast quadrants of the surveyed area.  A follow-up 
programme of outcrop and float sampling and prospecting is underway at the time of writing. Grid 
based soil sampling will follow where and if warranted. 
 
Other Licences 
 
Reconnaissance exploration comprising ridge and spur soil geochemical surveys were completed 
across a 99 square kilometer area of EL1802 in West New Britain between July and August of 
2013.  No significant anomalies for base metal or pathfinder elements were defined.  No further 
work is currently planned for this small licence area. 
 
The EL1766 licence was finally renewed in November 2013 after a protracted renewal process.  
No fieldwork was completed during the year on this licence. 
 
The Corbett & Menzies Project Review of EL1462 exploration results 
 
The Corbett & Menzies review of our work in the Mt. Nakru area was delivered to us in September 
2013 and gave a positive review of our exploration methodology.  When exploring for porphyry 
copper-gold systems Corbett & Menzies utilise established vectors when assessing exploration 
programs in copper-gold systems. These are namely: zoned wall rock mineral assemblages; 
proximal to distal quartz-sulphide vein styles; zoned surface metal content in soil and rock 
samples, the presence of multi-phases of igneous intrusion activity and prominent geophysical 
targets. The CMC report concluded that our project in the Mt Nakru area exhibits the following key 
characteristics: 
 
 well defined wall-rock mineral assemblage and quartz-sulphide veins typical of the upper 
parts of mineralised porphyry copper-gold bearing environments,   
 elevated copper-molybdenum in surface soil samples similar to copper-gold deposits 
elsewhere,   
 multiple phases of igneous intrusions and   
 geophysical targets indicative of mineralisation.  
 
We regard Dr. Corbett as one of the world's leading experts in porphyry copper-gold deposits. The 
CMC findings are a valuable validation of our view that the project area is highly prospective for 
porphyry-related copper-gold mineralisation and of our exploration strategy towards discovery of a 
major copper-gold pophyry deposit in the Kulu-Fulleborn Trend.  14
Papua Mining plc 
Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 
Strategic Report 
 
Key Performance Indicators and Risk Management (Continued) 
 
 
12 
 
Key performance indicators 
 
The Board monitors KPIs which it considers appropriate for a group at Papua Mining's stage of 
development.  
 
As a mineral exploration business, an important factor is a steadily improving market perception of the 
progress and value of the business leading to an improving share price, continued support from 
shareholders and therefore the ability to raise new equity capital at increasing prices, thus minimising 
dilution for those early investors who bore significant risk. 
 
The KPIs for the Group are as follows: 
 
Financial KPIs 
 
Shareholder return - the performance of the share price.   
The Company listed on AIM in March 2012 at a share price of  0.44 ($0.68) and issued further shares in 
February 2013 at  0.80 ($1.24) per share.  The share price at 11 June 2014 was  0.21 ($0.36). The 
recent fall in share price is unfortunate, but not entirely unexpected in the context of current market 
conditions and given the early stage of development of the Group's exploration activities.  The Directors 
are, however, optimistic of an improved market value of the business in 2014 and 2015 given the 
positive future prospects for the Group's exploration operations, as demonstrated by the confidence 
shown by investors in the June 2014 share placing. 
 
Exploration expenditure - funding and development costs.   
The availability of sufficient cash to facilitate continued investment and funding of exploration 
programmes is essential.  The Group monitors the availability of sufficient cash to fund exploration 
programmes.  At 31 December 2013 the Group had cash of $3,626,880 (2012: $6,996,182), and has 
raised further funds of $4.2m since the year end.  
 
Non financial KPIs 
 
Environment management - the Group has environmental policies in place.  
The Group is aware of the potential impact that its operations may have on the environment.  The Group 
ensures that, at a minimum, its subsidiaries comply with the local regulatory requirements and industry 
standard principles for environmental and social risk management.  
 
Performance against these environmental policies is continuously monitored.  The Directors consider 
that this has served to minimise any negative impact of current exploration activities on the environment. 
 
Operational - the number of additional Exploration Licences and exploration successes.   
There has been extensive exploration activity in the year, and the Directors are encouraged by the 
prospectivity of the Group's Exploration Licences and by the exploration results obtained to date.  The 
Group currently has two new Exploration Licence applications pending. 
 
Except for the fall in share price during the year, the Directors consider that performance against all 
other KPIs in 2013 was acceptable. 
 
Risk Management 
 
The Directors consider that assessing and monitoring the inherent risks in the exploration business, as 
well as other financial risks, is crucial for the success of the Group.  Risk assessment is essential in the 
Group's planning processes.  The Board regularly reviews the performance of projects against plans 
and forecasts.  Further detail on management of financial risk is set out in note 16. 
 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
 
The management of the business and the execution of the Board's strategy are subject to a number of 
risks: 
 the success of mineral exploration projects is, by their nature, inherently uncertain, and the 
availability of new information can significantly change estimates of mineral reserves; 
 the viability of exploration projects is largely driven by commodity prices; 
 commodity prices can be subject to volatile fluctuations. 
 
The principal risks and the measures taken by the Group in order to mitigate these risks are set out in 
more detail below. 
 