 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. The Parkmead Group plc, as an AIM listed company, 
is not required to comply with the June 2008 Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance. However, the Board recognises the 
importance of sound corporate governance and has ensured 
that the Company has adopted policies and procedures, that the 
Directors' consider appropriate to the Company's size, which 
reflect such Principles of Good Governance and the Code of 
Best Practice as published by the Committee on Corporate 
Governance (commonly known as the Combined Code ). 
THE BOARD
Board effectiveness
The Board, which is set up to control the Company and Group 
meets formally at least four times a year and in the year under 
review met on five occasions. As at the year end the Board 
was comprised of seven Directors - two Executive and five 
Non-Executive Directors. Four of the Non-Executive Directors, 
namely the Chairman (Mr. C. Goodall), Mr. F. Hamza, 
Mr. J. Leggate, and Mr. B. Wilson are considered by the Board to 
be independent, not withstanding the fact that they have shares 
in the Company.
Each Board member receives the latest financial and management 
information each month, which consists of:
n management accounts setting out actual costs and revenues
 against budgeted costs and revenues;
n cash collections and forecasts;
n a statement of income compared with budget;
n balance sheet values including net assets per share; and,
n internal rate of return on investments.
The Board reserves to itself a range of key decisions to ensure 
it retains proper direction and control of the Group, whilst 
delegating authority to individual Directors who are responsible 
for the day to day management of the business.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and can also seek independent professional 
advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board appointments
All appointments to the Board are discussed at a full board 
meeting and each member is given the opportunity to meet the 
individual concerned prior to an appointment being made.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing responsibility 
for running the Board and the business by appointing 
Mr. C. Goodall as Non-Executive Chairman and Mr. N. Doran as 
Chief Executive Officer.
Re-election of Directors
All Directors are subject to re-election every three years in 
accordance with the Company's Articles of Association. This year 
the following directors are due for re-election: Mr. C. Goodall 
and Mr. T. Cross.
COMMiTTEEs AND AUDiTORs
Committees
The Directors have delegated certain of their responsibilities 
to various committees, which operate within specific terms of 
reference and authority limits.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and consists of 
Mr. C. Goodall and Mr. J. Leggate. Mr. N. Doran and 
Mr. G. Ashworth attend by invitation. In the year ended 
30 June 2009 the Audit Committee met twice, both meetings 
were fully attended.
The duties of the Audit Committee include:
n review of the scope and the results of the audit;
n assessment of the cost effectiveness of the audit;
n monitoring the independence and objectivity of the Auditors;
n review and assessment of current updates of changes in
 accounting standards and their likely impact on the 
 Group's accounts;
n review and assessment of the internal controls of the
 Company; and
n assessment of the competencies of the financial human
 resources available to the Company.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant 
financial experience. The Audit Committee advises the Board 
on the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external 
Auditors and on their remuneration. The Committee discusses 
the nature and scope of the audit with the external Auditors and 
provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external Auditors 
on any matters it considers appropriate.
It is the task of the Audit Committee to ensure that auditor 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit 
services are provided by the Auditors. To ensure auditor 
objectivity and independence there is a process in place to 
approve any non-audit work at each audit committee meeting.
The Remuneration Committee, which consists of Mr. B. Wilson 
and Mr. C. Goodall, also meets at least once a year. In the year 
ended 30 June 2009 the Remuneration Committee met twice, 
the meetings were fully attended.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
level and make-up of the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors meet regularly on an informal basis 
and deal with decisions that do not require full Board approval. 
The Directors believe that this process for making business 
decisions provides sufficient division of responsibility to meet the 
requirements of the Combined Code.
shareholder relations
The Company communicates with current and potential 
shareholders through the Annual Report and financial statements, 
the Interim Statement and any trading updates. Additionally, 
through the Company's website (www.parkmeadgroup.com), the 
Company makes available announcements relating to progress 
on investments and industry relationships, which whilst not a 
7 THE PARKMEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE
CONTiNUED
regulatory requirement to be disclosed, provide investors with 
further insight as to progress made by the Company. Directors 
are available at the Annual General Meeting where shareholders 
can ask questions or represent their views. Additionally, in 
accordance with the AIM rules, specifically Rule 26, the Company 
has disclosed fully all relevant information so as to ensure that it is 
fully compliant.
The Company maintains a website (www.parkmeadgroup.com) 
where the Group's statutory accounts can be accessed.
The following information can also be found there:
n copies of regulatory announcements;
n announcements made to relevant industry media;
n Directors' biographies;
n information relating to the Group's services; and
n details of the Group's investments.
All queries raised by shareholders are dealt with by the Chief 
Financial Officer, Mr. Gordon Ashworth. Otherwise the 
Directors meet and discuss the performance of the Group with 
shareholders during the year.
Accountability and audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and financial 
statements play an important part in presenting shareholders 
with an assessment of the Group's position and prospects, and 
in particular the Chairman's Statement, which contains a detailed 
consideration of the Group's financial position and prospects.
REMUNERATiON POLiCy
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
level and make-up of the remuneration of Executive Directors. In 
doing so the Committee's aims are:
n to ensure that remuneration packages are sufficient to attract
 and retain Executive Directors of the requisite calibre;
n to ensure that the targets of the Group and its Executive
 Directors are aligned;
n to ensure that the remuneration policies adopted by
 the Group give full consideration to the requirements of the
 Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK
 Listing Authority;
n to consider, and if thought fit, grant options to Executive
 Directors and staff under the Group's Option Schemes; and,
n where applicable, to assess targets that should be used in
 the fixing of performance related pay for Executive Directors.
 Such bonuses are paid at the discretion of the Remuneration
 Committee.
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Board within the limits set out in the Articles of 
Association.
iNTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has decided that at this stage in the Group's 
development the creation of an internal audit function is not 
warranted. In reaching this decision the Board has had regard 
to the internal controls that have been implemented across the 
Group. These are:
n the establishment of a Board with an appropriate balance
 of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, which has overall
 responsibility for decision making across the Group;
n the preparation and approval of an annual budget in advance
 of each financial year and monitoring performance against this
 at an appropriate level of detail on a timely basis;
n establishing clear lines of reporting, responsibility and
 delegation throughout the Group and documenting this in a
 clearly defined organisational chart;
n ensuring that clearly defined control procedures covering
 expenditure and authority levels are in place. In particular
 the Group requires that all significant expenditure is
 authorised prior to ordering by at least one Executive
 Director and that all financial payments in excess of  2,000
 are made under dual signature; and,
n undertaking a risk assessment of the Group's activities and
 monitoring the risks identified.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing risks faced by the Company. These processes were in 
place during the year.
CORPORATE sOCiAL REsPONsiBiLiTy
The Group acquits itself of its commitment to Corporate Social 
Responsibility through the implementation of policies across the 
following areas:
n equal opportunities across the Group; and
n health and safety
GOiNG CONCERN
The Directors, after making appropriate enquiries have satisfied 
themselves that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
8 THE PARKMEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009