 Report and Accounts 2003 21
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
The Parkwood Group is committed to effective 
corporate governance and operates to clear principles 
and procedures of control appropriate to a multi-sited 
business.  This statements describes how Parkwood 
applies the principles of governance, particularly those 
set out in the Combined Code issued by the UK Listing 
Authority.
The Board of Parkwood
The company supports the concept of an effective 
board leading and controlling the company.  The 
Board is responsible for approving company policy 
and strategy.  It meets at least 8 times per annum 
and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved 
to it for its decision.  Management supply the Board 
with appropriate and timely information and the 
Directors are free to seek any further information 
they consider necessary. In addition to board papers, 
information on the Group's performance is sent to 
directors each month and telephone contact or ad hoc 
meetings are arranged to keep the full Board abreast 
of developments.  Copies of all press announcements 
made by the Company as well as any stockbroker's 
reports on the Company to which it has access, are 
also circulated to the Board. All Directors have access 
to advice from the company secretary and independent 
professionals at the Company's expense.  Training 
is available for new directors and other directors as 
necessary.
The Board consists of three executive directors, who 
hold key operational positions in the Company and 
two non-executive directors, who bring a breadth 
of experience and knowledge, both of whom are 
independent of management and any business or other 
relationship which could interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement.  This provides a 
balance whereby the Board's decision making cannot 
be dominated by an individual or small group.  The 
Chairman of the Board is A W Hewitt.  The Board 
has named C A Marsh as the senior independent non-
executive director.  A brief resume of each member of 
the Board is included on page 20.  It is not intended 
that the size or composition of the Group Board be 
changed in 2004. 
All directors are subject to re-election every three years 
and, at the first AGM after appointment
Provision A 2.1 of the Combined Code requires that 
the where roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are combined in one person, the reasons should be 
justified.  In August 2003, Tony Hewitt took over the 
roles of both Chairman and Chief Executive as the 
Group's Executive Chairman .  Having regard to the 
composition of the Board, in particular the experience 
of its members; the strong independent element 
provided by the non-executive directors; and Mr 
Hewitt's significant shareholding, the Board believes 
that it is not inappropriate in the circumstances 
that the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive be 
combined in one person.
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee and 
a Remuneration Committee.  Due to the size of the 
Board, it is not felt that a Nomination Committee is 
required, as all Group directors currently participate 
in decisions regarding new appointments.  The 
Audit Committee is chaired by C A Marsh and is 
formally constituted with written terms of reference 
and comprised of the two non-executive directors 
throughout the reporting period.  The executive 
directors are not members of the Committees but the 
Group Finance Director may be invited to attend the 
Audit Committee's  meetings.  The Committee meets 
at least twice per year.  The external auditors will 
also attend for part or the whole of each meeting and 
they have direct access to the non-executive directors 
for independent discussions without the presence of 
executive directors.
The Audit Committee may examine any matters 
relating to the financial affairs of the Group.  This 
includes reviews of the annual accounts and 
announcements, internal control procedures, internal 
audit reports, accounting policies, compliance with 
accounting standards, the appointment of external 
auditors and such other related functions as the Board 
may require.
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms 
and conditions including annual remuneration 
and incentive awards of the Executive Directors.  
Membership of the Committee consists of the 
independent non-executive directors with S Kling as 
Chairman. Report and Accounts 2003 22
Corporate Governance
Internal Control
The Board has reviewed its risk assessment procedures 
and established an ongoing process for identifying 
evaluating and managing the Group's key risks. The 
Company has established the preliminary procedures 
necessary to implement the guidance, Internal 
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined 
Code .  Procedures are continually reviewed and 
developed.  Assessment of internal control is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal 
Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code 
produced by the Turnbull working party.
The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal control for the 
financial year and the period up to the date of approval 
of financial statements.  The directors are responsible for 
the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness.  The system of internal financial 
controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.  
Key elements of the Group's internal control system are 
as follows:
 Internal Audit
 In compliance with the Combined Code, the Board 
considered the need for an internal audit function 
and has appointed a full time internal auditor.  This 
employee reports directly to the Group Finance 
Director, but also has the authority to refer matters 
directly to the Audit Committee if appropriate.  No 
materially adverse control failures were identified 
by the internal auditor during the year.  The Board 
is currently filling a casual vacancy in the role of 
Internal Auditor.
 Management Structure
 The Group operated in the year through four 
divisions, which comprise a number of clearly 
defined trading activities.  Each trading activity has 
its own Managing Director and Board of Directors 
who are responsible for overseeing the performance 
and plans of the business in conjunction with the 
Divisional Directors where appropriate and the 
Executive Directors of Parkwood Holdings plc.  Each 
Managing Director is given specific responsibilities for 
overseeing controls in their business.
 Submission of Bids, Tenders and Prices
 Tender documents are reviewed by executive 
management prior to submission.  Formal sign-off 
processes and authority levels are followed.  Pricing 
procedures are subject to a process of continuous 
review, including input from the internal audit 
function.
 Contract Appraisal
 Contract documents are reviewed prior to signature 
by executive management in order to ensure that 
terms and conditions are acceptable to the Group.
 Budgeting
 Each division, trading activity, contract and cost 
centre has an annual budget agreed between 
the budget holder and executive management.  
Performance against budget is regularly reviewed 
and future performance re-forecast as appropriate.
 Planning and Reporting
a. Marketing and sales targets are agreed between 
the Executive Directors and the Divisional 
Directors annually.  Progress against targets is 
reviewed regularly.
b. Each division prepares a strategic business plan.  
These plans are discussed and agreed with the 
Executive Directors of Parkwood Holdings plc.  
The plans are updated every two years.
 Capital Expenditure
 The Group has a clearly defined framework for 
approving capital expenditure and appropriate 
authorisation levels requiring approval of 
Divisional or Group Executive Directors, with 
major expenditure being approved at the Group 
Board.
 A summary of the process the Board (where 
applicable, through its committees) has applied in 
reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control is set out as follows:
 During the year, the Audit Committee of the Board, 
comprising of the non-executive directors:
a. Meets two times a year with the external 
auditors attending by invitation;
b. Receives a regular report from the internal 
audit function and makes recommendations as 
to the future scope, authority and resources of 
internal audit.
c. Considers the suitability of  the Group's 
accounting policies and financial reporting 
and matters arising from the external auditor's 
work.
 The Group Board is provided with any 
recommendations as to changes to any items arising 
above on a regular basis.  The Group Board also 
regularly reviews the key risks of the Group's 
businesses and critically evaluates the ability of 
existing internal controls to manage these risks. Report and Accounts 2003 23
Corporate Governance
Relations with Shareholders
The Group values the views of its shareholders and 
recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and 
performance, Board membership and quality of 
management.  It therefore holds meetings with its 
institutional shareholders to discuss objectives.  In 
addition, the Group continually updates its web site 
(www.parkwood-holdings.co.uk), which is designed 
to provide regular updates on news for private and 
institutional shareholders alike.
The AGM is used to communicate with private 
investors and they are encouraged to participate.  The 
Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
are available to answer questions.  Separate resolutions 
are proposed on each issue so that they can be 
given proper consideration and there is a resolution 
to approve the annual report and accounts.  The 
Company counts all proxy votes and will indicate the 
level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has 
been dealt with by a show of hands.
Accountability and audit
The Board presents a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group's position and prospects in 
all interim and price-sensitive reports and reports to 
regulators as well as in the information required to be 
presented by statutory requirements.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future.  For this reason they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Compliance Statement
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on 
compliance with the Code provisions throughout the 
accounting period.  Save for the exception outlined 
below, the Group has complied throughout the 
accounting period ended 31 December 2003 with 
the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.  The 
exception to the Code was as follows:
D 3.1 requires that the board should establish an 
audit committee of at least three directors, all non-
executive, with written terms of reference which 
deal clearly with its authority and duties.  The Audit 
Committee, however, consisted of only two non-
executive directors during the year.  The Board believes 
that the current number of two non-executive directors 
is appropriate to the current size of the Group's 
business.
Parkwood Directors from left to right: 
Charles Bithell, Sarah Kling, Tony Hewitt,  
Chris Marsh and Andrew Holt