 Annual Report & Accounts
for the year ended 31 December 2010
16
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
 
The Board is responsible for the Group's corporate governance policy and 
recognises the importance of high standards of integrity and consistently 
seeks to apply those elements of the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance 2008 (the  Code') in a manner which it considers appropriate for 
and applicable to a company of Parseq plc's size quoted on the Alternative 
Investment Market. The narrative below describes how the Group applied 
these principles.
Principles of the Combined Code
Board of Directors
At the end of the year the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, the 
Chief Executive, two other Non-Executive Directors and two other Executive 
Directors. Details of the names and dates of appointment and resignation of the 
Directors during the year are shown in the Directors' report. The roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive are separate and have been so throughout the year.
Notwithstanding any interests in the share capital of the Company that they 
may have, the Company considers the two Non-Executive Directors to be 
independent of management because they have never had an executive 
position at the Company, nor have they had a personal relationship with any 
member of the Board, and were selected with the approval of all other 
Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed on a three month rolling term and are 
subject to re-election along with the Executive Directors. The Company does 
not combine the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Board meetings are scheduled to take place most months and last year ten 
meetings were held. The Board is provided with extensive Board papers, 
usually during the week before each Board meeting.
There is a Company procedure which describes the matters which are 
reserved for the Board and all members of the Board have access to this 
document. The main items reserved for the Board include acquisitions, 
disposals, treasury, major capital expenditure and research and development. 
In addition, approval of the annual budget and the quarterly re-forecasts are 
performed by the main Board.
If required, the Directors are entitled to take independent advice and if the 
Board is informed in advance, the cost of the advice will be reimbursed by the 
Company. The company secretary's services are available to all members of 
the Board. The appointment and removal of the company secretary is a 
decision for the Board as a whole.
Committees
The Remuneration Committee, the report of which is on page 18 comprises 
the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Mr S P Rubin. It is responsible 
for the terms and conditions of employment and remuneration of the 
Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee may consult external 
agencies when ascertaining market salaries. The Remuneration Committee 
has written terms of reference and the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any 
Shareholder questions.
The Company has an Audit Committee chaired by W S C Richards and 
comprising the Non-Executive Directors with the Chief Financial Officer 
attending at the request of the Committee. The Committee meets at least 
twice a year and has written terms of reference. It monitors the adequacy of 
the Group's financial controls and provides the opportunity for the external 
Auditor to communicate directly with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the Auditor's 
independence each year which includes: a review of non-audit services 
provided to the Group and related fees; discussion with the Auditor detailing 
all relationships with the Group and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence; a review of the Auditor's 
own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and 
partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the 
audit partner; and obtaining written confirmation from the Auditor that, in 
their professional judgement, they are independent. An analysis of the fees 
payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit 
services during the year is set out in note 20 of the financial statements.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company gives high priority to its communication with Shareholders by 
means of an active investor relations programme. This is achieved through 
correspondence together with extensive corporate information that is regularly 
updated on the Company's website www.parseq.com. This is kept in accordance 
with AIM rule 26. In addition, the Company visits its main institutional investors 
bi-annually and makes available, free of charge, its Interim and Annual Reports 
from the Company's head office. At the AGM, the Shareholders are given the 
opportunity to question most of the members of the Board. All Board committee 
members are available to answer questions at the AGM. The notice of the AGM is 
sent to Shareholders at least 21 working days before the meeting.
Internal control
The Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and 
monitoring the Group's systems of internal control. There are inherent 
limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly, even the most 
effective systems can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The Group's control environment is the 
responsibility of the Group's Directors and managers at all levels. The Group's 
organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility. Operating and financial 
responsibility for the subsidiary company is delegated to the operational 
management, including key risk assessment. The operating subsidiary has a 
management Board that meets at least monthly to review financial 
performance against agreed targets and set objectives for the following month. 
In addition, this team is responsible for resource allocation, internal 
communication and enforcing the Group's policies and procedures. The 
chairperson for the management Board sits on the plc Board and is mandated 
to report monthly to the Board, highlighting financial performance, operational 
achievements, significant risks attached to achieving the Group's objectives and 
to seek approval for matters reserved for the plc Board. This structure facilitates a 
continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk within the 
business and is supported by an audit committee that meets with the Auditor 
twice a year. Recommendations from reviews from Auditors or other sources 
are considered, and necessary actions are progressed to remedy any significant 
failings or weaknesses identified. www.parseq.com
Stock code: PSQ
17
Our Governance
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting 
system and as a matter of routine, compares actual results with budgets that 
are approved by the Board.
Management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis. Material variances 
from budget are thoroughly investigated. In addition, updated forecasts are 
prepared, at least quarterly, to reflect actual performance and the revised 
outlook for the year. The Board considers that in light of the control 
environment described above, there is no current requirement for a separate 
internal audit function.
Other matters
Going concern
The Board have looked into the profit and cash flow projections going 
forward which takes into account the current economic climate. After making 
appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Group's financial statements.
Directors' responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and 
parent Company financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company and Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
   select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
   make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
   state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements;
   prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company's and Group's transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
R B Arden
Company Secretary
6 April 2011