 In 1998 the London Stock Exchange published the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice (the   Combined Code'') which is
derived from the work of the Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel committees. The Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the
year. During 2003, the Financial Reporting Council published a revised Combined Code (the   New Code'') implementing the recommendations
made in the   Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors''. The New Code came into effect for the Company for the
financial year commencing 1 January 2004. The Company already complies with most of the New Code and during 2004 intends to achieve
compliance in all material respects with the remainder of the New Code.
The following is an explanation of the Company's corporate governance policies in the light of the Combined Code.
Directors
The full Board meets at least ten times each year. Although there is a prescribed pattern of presentation to the Board, including matters specifically
reserved for the Board's decision, all Board meetings tend to have further subjects for discussion and decision taking. Board papers, including an
agenda, are sent out in advance of the meetings. Board meetings are discursive in style and directors are encouraged to offer their opinions.
There is a Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer and a senior non-executive director. The non-executive directors are independent of management
and have no relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Sir John Collins is a director of
NM Rothschild & Sons (  NMR'') which provides financial advice to the Company but since Sir John's role is solely as a non-executive director of
NMR on a fixed remuneration with no relationship to the income or profits of NMR the Board continues to regard him as independent. Non-
executive directors have letters of appointment, but as with executive directors they must seek election at the first available annual general meeting
after their appointment and thereafter stand for election at least every three years.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is also a director, and independent professional advice at the Company's expense if
necessary.
There is a nomination committee which meets when necessary to provide advice and make recommendations to the Board on Board composition.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, and of the principal committees of the Board, during 2003 together with details
of attendance.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Number of meetings 12 541
Attendance:
Lord Sterling 12 n/a n/a 1
Sir Bruce MacPhail 12 n/a n/a 1
Joanne Curin
#
- n/a n/a n/a
Sir David Brown 954 n/a
Sir John Collins 10 5 4 n/a
Michael Everard 10 541
Rodney Galpin 10 541
Michael Gradon 12 n/a n/a n/a
Nick Luff
{
6 n/a n/a n/a
Russ Peters
{
6 n/a n/a n/a
Charles Rice
#
4 n/a n/a n/a
Peter Smith 11 n/a n/a n/a
Robert Woods 10 n/a n/a n/a
{
from date of appointment
#
up to date of cessation of directorship
Directors' remuneration
The directors' remuneration report is set out on pages 36 to 45.
Relations with stockholders
The Company's practice is to send the notice of the annual general meeting and proxy voting forms to stockholders at least 20 working days
before the meeting. The Chairman always sets aside a period of time for questions from the floor by eligible stockholders and the chairmen of the
audit, remuneration and nomination committees are expected to attend. It is the practice of the Company to indicate the level of proxy voting at
general meetings.
Presentations are given to institutional stockholders at the time of the interim and annual results and soundings are taken from them on strategic
and management issues.
All press releases and further stockholder information are available on the Group's website, www.pogroup.com. Results presentations and trading
updates are made available via webcasts.
33 P&O Annual Report 2003
Corporate governance
Corporate governance Accountability and audit
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control described below has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Board has delegated certain powers and duties to Board committees, all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
Audit committee
The audit committee, the members of which are given on page 23, is entirely made up of independent non-executive directors. The Chief Financial
Officer and external auditors are invited to attend along with any other director or member of staff considered necessary by the committee to
complete their work. The committee meets with external auditors without executive directors or members of staff present, as it considers
appropriate.
The committee meets at least three times each year.
The committee's remit includes the following:
. To review the form and content of the financial statements to be presented to stockholders of the Company at the half year and at the year
end.
. To keep under review the scope and results of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
. To review the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control including the year end financial reporting process and to report its
findings to the Board.
. To assess the impact of any financial control weaknesses and to ensure appropriate action is taken by holding discussions with relevant
executive directors.
. To receive reports from the Internal Audit department and to monitor the quality of the department's work.
Independence of auditors
The audit committee is responsible for recommending a firm of auditors of appropriate independence and experience and for the approval of all
audit fees and terms of engagement. The committee's policy is to undertake a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year which
includes:
. a review of non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees;
. discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing any relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect
independence or the perception of independence;
. a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit,
including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and
. obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
During the year, the audit committee implemented procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Company's auditors. These
include:
. the maintenance of a schedule of certain non-audit services, including consultancy, investment banking and legal services, which the
Company is specifically prohibited from obtaining from the audit firm without the consent of the audit committee;
. requiring the selection of providers of permitted non-audit services to be subject to a tender process, where appropriate; and
. requiring non-audit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance by the audit committee.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 3 to the
accounts.
Risk committee
The risk committee, the members of which are given on page 23, is comprised of the executive directors of the Company plus one non-executive
director and meets at least twice each year. Divisional executives are also invited to attend. The committee is responsible for the Group's risk
management process and at least annually carries out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control (excluding financial) and the
process of risk management. A report on this review is presented to the Board.
Risk management process
The Group risk management process, on which the review of effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management is based, has the
following key features:
34 P&O Annual Report 2003
Corporate governance . Through a series of interviews and risk assessment workshops, all major businesses within the Group determine the most significant risks to
the achievement of their business objectives. Appropriate risk management activity is then determined and any required action plans are
implemented. This is a continual process, and may be associated with a variety of financial, operational and compliance matters including
organisation structures, business strategies, disruption in information technology systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory
requirements.
. The risks and associated controls are summarised in risk portfolios and are passed to the risk and audit committees for review.
. At each year end, divisional and significant joint venture management certify that an assessment of the risk management process is in place
and has been conducted throughout their businesses and that appropriate internal control procedures are in place or in hand to manage the
risks identified. These self-certifications are made available to the risk and audit committees.
. Finance departments across the Group complete a control self-assessment questionnaire. The results of this questionnaire are subject to
review by the Internal Audit department. Summarised results of this exercise are presented to the audit committee.
Internal control
The Board has established a strong control framework within which the Group operates. The principal features and key high level control
procedures include:
. An organisation structure which supports clear lines of communication and accountability and delegation of authority rules which specify
responsibility.
. Business strategies are prepared at divisional level and are approved by the Board. In addition, there are annual budgeting and strategic
planning processes. Financial forecasts are prepared every quarter. Actual performance is compared to budget, latest forecast and prior
year on a monthly basis. Significant variances are investigated and explained through normal monthly reporting channels.
. Key performance indicators are produced to summarise and monitor business activity.
. Evaluation and approval procedures for major capital expenditure and significant treasury transactions.
. Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the Group's health, safety, welfare and environment processes.
. The Internal Audit department provides additional assurance to the Board, risk committee and audit committee that key controls are
operating as intended.
The risk management process and the system of internal control are subject to continuous improvement.
35 P&O Annual Report 2003
Corporate governance