 Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2009
6 Corporate governance statement 
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance statement
Although not compulsory for AIM regulated companies, the Group is committed
to the principles of corporate governance contained in the revised Combined
Code on Corporate Governance which was published in June 2006 by the
Financial Reporting Council. The Board is accountable to the Company's
shareholders for corporate governance and confirms that there is a process 
in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the
achievement of the Group's strategic objectives on an ongoing basis. The
process has been in place throughout the year. This statement describes how
the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company
and the Company's compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out
in Section 1 of the revised Combined Code.
We have a policy of dividing responsibilities for the Board and running the
Company's business by appointing a Chairman, a Senior Independent Director
and a Chief Executive. The Chief Executive and the Finance Director form part
of an operations board which is responsible for running the operations of 
the Company.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees 
The Board of Directors meets regularly during the year, and also has telephone
conferences as considered necessary. The Non-Executive Directors may meet
without the Executive Directors being present if required.
The Board has a balance of skills and experience appropriate to its size 
and business. It is made up of two Executive Directors, Gary Browning and
David Firth, and currently four Non-Executive Directors of whom three 
(Sir James Harvie-Watt, David Banks and Richard Stillwell) are deemed by the
Company to be independent of management and free from any business 
or other relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgement. Their overriding duty is to ensure the operations
conducted by the Company and the procedures followed reflect the best
interests of the Company's shareholders. The biographies of the Board of
Directors appear on page 4. In the event that there is a need to express
concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman, the Board has
appointed Richard Stillwell as the Senior Independent Director to whom 
such concerns can be conveyed.
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed on issues
arising at Board meetings by: distributing a formal schedule of matters assigned
to each Board meeting which is circulated at the beginning of each year; a
more detailed agenda together with the Board papers is circulated at least
seven days before each Board meeting; considering the adequacy of the
information provided before making decisions; adjourning meetings or deferring
decisions when Directors require further information; encouraging Directors to
talk to any other key executives or seek further information in order to keep
them as informed as they deem appropriate; having key executives attend
Board meetings to share information and encourage debate with Board members.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary
and the Board has established a procedure whereby any Director may seek
independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the
Company's expense.
The Board has delegated specific authorities to an Audit Committee and a
Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee operates under written terms of reference which are
available from the Company Secretary on request. The Committee is chaired by
Sir James Harvie-Watt and is composed of Sir James and Richard Stillwell. The
Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend as requested by the Committee. 
The Committee normally meets before the Company's interim and annual
accounts are submitted to the Board for approval. The Committee meets
annually without management with the Company's auditors to ensure any
concerns the auditors may have are fully expressed. The Committee also
recommends the appointment and reviews the fees of external auditors,
including non-audit related fees, and considers the independence of the
external auditors.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of reference. The
Committee is composed of the Non-Executive Directors, as shown on page 4,
who are deemed by the Board to be independent of management and is
chaired by Richard Stillwell and meets periodically to approve the remuneration
for the Executive Directors and to discuss the remuneration of senior
employees. The Committee sets general policies on behalf of the Board in
connection with salaries, bonuses, options and employee benefits. The
Remuneration Report is on pages 8 to 10.
Nominations Committee 
It is deemed appropriate for all members of the Board to participate in the
recruitment of members of the Board. There is a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure for appointing new directors to the Board. A personality,
skills and experience specification is drawn up in the context of the skills and
experience which are deemed to be needed in a new Board Director, against
which a shortlist of candidates is matched, and full competency based
interviews take place before all Board members interview candidates. All new
Board members undertake a three-day familiarisation process. This involves
visits to several Penna locations and meeting a number of Penna people in
order to get as full an understanding of the business and the issues it faces as
possible. The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors
are available for inspection at the Company's registered office during normal
business hours and at the AGM.
Attendance at meetings 
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and individual
attendance by the members are as follows: 
Main Audit Remuneration 
Board Committee Committee 
Number of meetings held 72 2
Stephen Rowlinson 72 2
Gary Browning 72 2
David Firth 72 2
Sir James Harvie-Watt, Bt 72 2
Richard Stillwell 72 2
David Banks 4- 1 Corporate governance statement continued
Maintenance of a sound system of Internal Control 
In applying Principle D.2 of the Combined Code, the Board should maintain 
a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments 
and the Company's assets. The Directors recognise that they have overall
responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control
to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient
operations, internal financial control and compliance with laws and regulations.
However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and,
accordingly, even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and
not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss. 
For the full year the Board has complied with the procedures recommended 
by the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee. 
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of
internal control include:
  Monthly meetings of the operations board which are subsequently reported
to the Board
  Discussions with management on risk areas identified by management and/or
the audit process
  Discussions and review of the issues arising from external audits 
  The review of significant Group risks.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of their review of the risk
assessment process. The Board concludes on the overall effectiveness of all
internal controls.
The key features of the internal financial control system that operated
throughout the period are described below:
  Comprehensive planning system, annually approved by the Board 
  The reporting of business performance by Operations Directors 
  Monthly financial reporting comparing actual performance against plan 
and against the prior year's results on a monthly and year-to-date basis
  Regular consideration by the Board of actual performance against budgets
and business plans
  Ongoing discussions with the head of each discipline within the organisation
  A review of the financial controls across the Group
  Regular reporting of legal and accounting developments to the Board 
  The definition of lines of responsibility and delegation of authority 
  The setting of authorisation limits.
The Board carefully reviews the business plans and budgets. Material capital
expenditure and other large commitments in excess of approved plans are
subject to approval by the Board.
Given the Group's size and the nature of the Group's business, the Board 
does not consider that it would be appropriate to have its own internal audit
function at present. Instead, the audit of internal financial controls form part 
of the responsibilities of the central group finance function.
Relations with Shareholders 
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chairman's
review on pages 2 and 3 includes a detailed review of the business. There is
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after
the Company's preliminary announcement of the year-end results and at the
half year. Feedback from investors is encouraged and is shared with all Board
members. Information about Group companies and up to date news on the
Group's services and activities is also accessible via the Penna Consulting
website (www.penna.com).
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The Board aims to
ensure that all the Non-Executive Directors are available at Annual General
Meetings to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting on 24 September 2009 can be found in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting.
Compliance Statement 
The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the revised
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting
Council in June 2006 throughout the year except as detailed below. 
During the year the Board did not conduct any formal evaluations of its
performance or of individual directors.
Certain Board members have served as a Director of the Company for longer
than nine years. The Board is of the view that their continued involvement as
Directors remains beneficial to the Company and its shareholders.
Stephen Rowlinson 
Chairman 
14 August 2009 
Penna Consulting Plc
Annual Report 2009
Corporate governance statement   7