 Penna Consulting Plc
Annual Report 2014
12 Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance statement
Although not compulsory for AiM regulated companies, the group follows the 
principles of the QCA Corporate governance Code for small and medium sized 
listed companies, which was issued in May 2013. the group is not required to 
and has not complied fully with the uK Corporate governance Code in terms of 
all the disclosures required to be made.
the Board's aim is that the group's level of corporate governance should be 
aligned with the expectations of shareholders, clients and employees and 
should be appropriate for a company of its size. the Board is accountable to 
the Company's shareholders for corporate governance and confirms that there 
is a process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks to the achievement of the group's strategic objectives on an ongoing 
basis. the process has been in place throughout the year. this statement 
describes how the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied to 
the Company.
We have a policy of dividing responsibilities for the Board and running the 
Company's business by appointing a the Chairman, a senior independent 
Director and a Chief executive. executive Directors form part of an operations 
board which is responsible for running the operations of the Company.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees 
the Board of Directors meets regularly during the year, and also has telephone 
conferences as considered necessary. the non-executive Directors may meet 
without the executive Directors being present if required.
the Board has a balance of skills and experience appropriate to its size  
and business. it is made up of the Chairman, four executive Directors,  
and two non-executive Directors both of whom are deemed by the Company 
to be independent of management and free from any business or other 
relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement. their overriding duty is to ensure the operations 
conducted by the Company and the procedures followed reflect the best 
interests of the Company's shareholders. the biographies of the Board of 
Directors appear on page 9. in the event that there is a need to express 
concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman, the Board has 
appointed graham Paton as the senior independent Director to whom  
such concerns can be conveyed.
the Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed on issues 
arising at Board meetings by: distributing a formal schedule of matters 
assigned to each Board meeting which is circulated at the beginning of each 
year; a more detailed agenda together with the Board papers is circulated at 
least seven days before each Board meeting; considering the adequacy of the 
information provided before making decisions; adjourning meetings or deferring 
decisions when Directors require further information; encouraging Directors to 
talk to any other key executives or seek further information in order to keep 
them as informed as they deem appropriate; having key executives attend 
Board meetings to share information and encourage debate with Board members.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company secretary 
and the Board has established a procedure whereby any Director may seek 
independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the 
Company's expense.
the Board has delegated specific authorities to an Audit Committee and a 
Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee 
the Audit Committee operates under written terms of reference which are 
available from the Company secretary on request. the Committee is chaired by 
leslie Ferrar. the Committee is composed of the non-executive Directors. the 
Chief executive and the Finance Director attend as requested by the Committee. 
the Committee normally meets before the Company's interim and annual 
accounts are submitted to the Board for approval. the Committee meets 
annually without management with the Company's auditors to ensure any 
concerns the auditors may have are fully expressed. the Committee also 
recommends the appointment and reviews the fees of external auditors, 
including non-audit related fees, and considers the independence of the 
external auditors.
Remuneration Committee 
the Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of reference.  
the Committee is composed of the non-executive Directors, who are deemed 
by the Board to be independent of management and is chaired by stephen 
Rowlinson and meets periodically to approve the remuneration for the 
executive Directors and to discuss the remuneration of senior employees.  
the Committee sets general policies on behalf of the Board in connection with 
salaries, bonuses, options and employee benefits. the Remuneration Report is 
on pages 14 to 16.
Nominations Committee 
All members of the Board participate in the recruitment of members of the 
Board. there is a formal procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board; a 
personality, skills and experience specification is drawn up in the context of the 
skills and experience which are deemed to be needed in a new Board Director, 
against which a shortlist of candidates is matched. the terms and conditions 
of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the 
Company's registered office during normal business hours and at the AgM.
Attendance at meetings 
the number of meetings of the Board and Committees and individual 
attendance by the members are as follows: 
 Main  Audit  nominations  
 Board  Committee  Committee 
number of meetings held  9 2 1
stephen Rowlinson  9 - 1
sir James Harrie-Watt 3 - -
graham Paton 9 2 1
leslie Ferrar 9 2 1
gary Browning  9 - 1
David Firth  9 2 1
Julie towers 3 - -
Bev White 3 - -
the Remuneration Committee did not meet during the year. Penna Consulting Plc 
Annual Report 2014
13 Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance statement continued
Maintenance of a sound system of Internal Control 
the Board should maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard 
shareholders' investments and the Company's assets. the Directors recognise 
that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a 
system of internal control to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding 
effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance with 
laws and regulations. However, there are inherent limitations in any system of 
internal control and, accordingly, even the most effective system can provide 
only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement 
or loss. 
the processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control include:
   Monthly meetings of the operations board which are subsequently reported 
to the Board
   Discussions with management on risk areas identified by management and/
or the audit process
  Discussions and review of the issues arising from external audits 
  The review of significant Group risks.
the Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of their review of the risk 
assessment process. the Board concludes on the overall effectiveness of all 
internal controls.
the key features of the internal financial control system that operated 
throughout the period are described below:
  Comprehensive planning system, annually approved by the Board 
  The reporting of business performance by Operations Directors 
   Monthly financial reporting comparing actual performance against plan  
and against the prior year's results on a monthly and year-to-date basis
   Regular consideration by the Board of actual performance against budgets 
and business plans
  Ongoing discussions with the head of each discipline within the organisation
  A review of the financial controls across the Group
  Regular reporting of legal and accounting developments to the Board 
  The definition of lines of responsibility and delegation of authority 
  The setting of authorisation limits.
the Board carefully reviews the business plans and budgets. Material capital 
expenditure and other large commitments in excess of approved plans are 
subject to approval by the Board.
given the group's size and the nature of the group's business, the Board  
does not consider that it would be appropriate to have its own internal audit 
function at present. instead, the audit of internal financial controls form part  
of the responsibilities of the central group finance function.
Relations with Shareholders 
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. the Chairman's 
review and operational and Financial review on pages 2 to 4 includes a detailed 
review of the business. there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 
including presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement of the 
year-end results and at the half year. Feedback from investors is encouraged 
and is shared with all Board members. information about group companies and 
up to date news on the group's services and activities is also accessible via the 
Penna Consulting website (www.penna.com).
the Board uses the Annual general Meeting to communicate with private 
and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. the Board aims 
to ensure that all the non-executive Directors are available at Annual general 
Meetings to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the 
Annual general Meeting on 25 september 2014 can be found in the notice  
of Annual general Meeting.
stephen Rowlinson  
Chairman 
9 July 2014