 Arriva plc
Annual report and accounts 2002
37
Corporate Governance
Your Board continues its commitment to achieving and maintaining the highest possible standards of corporate governance. Essentially, corporate
governance is concerned with the direction and control of companies with particular reference to the Board of Directors. Good corporate governance
means effective control through a balanced Board based on clear lines of responsibility with adequate control mechanisms providing appropriate checks
and balances, all operating within a clearly understood and effective regime of accountability.
Best practice in corporate governance is evidenced by The Combined Code and companies are required by The Stock Exchange to review in their Annual
Reports their application of the principles and provisions of The Combined Code.
Following the retirement of Mr. J.S. Ward on 26 April 2002 the Board has not maintained non-executive representation of one third for the whole 
of the period under review.
1 The Board
The Board, which currently comprises seven executive and three independent non-executive Directors, normally meets ten times a year. A specific
schedule of matters is reserved for the Board for decision, the principal elements being strategic investment and divestment, treasury policy, major
property transactions, health and safety and risk management. Information of an appropriate quality is made available to the Board in a timely manner
to assist it in performing its duties.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined.
Four standing committees are maintained and operated by the Board: the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Health & Safety Committees.
The Audit Committee meets three times a year to review reports from both the external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , and the Group Internal
Auditor and to review the external audit plan. The Remuneration Committee will normally meet twice a year and reviews the remuneration
arrangements for the executive Directors and senior management. The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis according to the circumstances
and whilst it is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to make recommendations, approval of all appointments to the Board will be made by
the Board as a whole. With the exception of the Health & Safety Committee membership of the Board committees comprises the non-executive
Directors. Mr. W.G. Cooper chairs the Health & Safety Committee and the Nomination Committee; the Audit Committee and the Remuneration
Committee are chaired by Mr. M.J. Allen.
Membership of the Health & Safety Committee comprises senior representatives from the operating divisions, three executive Directors (Mr. E.A.R. Cameron,
Mr. S.J. Clayton and Mr. A.M. Saxton), Mr. M.J. Allen, the Company Secretary and the Group Health & Safety Manager. The Committee meets four times
a year and is charged by the Board with the responsibility of providing assurance to the Board of the adequacy and effectiveness of the application 
of the overall health, safety and environmental strategies of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who administers the Board and Board Committee meetings and ensures
that relevant procedures and regulations are followed.
An agreed procedure has been established for any of the Directors (both executive and non-executive) to obtain independent professional advice 
at the Company's expense.
One third of the Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election each year and all Directors will have submitted themselves for re-election
every three years. Newly appointed Directors will be subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
With reference to Provision A.2.1 of The Combined Code, Mr. M.J. Allen is the senior independent Director. 
2 Relations with Shareholders
Your Board has for many years considered the continuation of a dialogue with the major institutional investors to be a very important activity in 
the Company's development. There can be little doubt that wherever practicable continuing clear communications with the institutional investors 
is a positive and mutually beneficial exercise. It is your Board's intention to ensure that these arrangements, subject to any statutory or regulatory
limitations, continue and are developed in a way designed to be helpful and constructive both to the Company and the institutions.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit, Nomination and Health & Safety Committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will include, following each resolution, the provision to the meeting of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect 
of each resolution. Arriva plc
Annual report and accounts 2002
38
Corporate Governance
continued
3 Accountability and Audit
Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control. 
The review required extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control. Whilst no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material
loss, the systems are designed to give the Directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are:
(a) Organisation Structure
The structure of the organisation is so designed to minimise as far as possible the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the
commercial demands made on the Group. The structure focuses on the core businesses of the Group, with an executive Director of Arriva plc having
direct line management responsibility for one or more of these activities. Stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is
closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken if the need arises. Certain of the Group's key functions including company secretarial,
legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury, insurance and health & safety are undertaken centrally.
(b)Financial Reporting
The Group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating division's performance being closely monitored against both budget
and prior period performance through regular monthly meetings with an executive Director of Arriva plc. Monthly management accounts are prepared
for consideration by the Board as a whole.
(c) Internal Audit
The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the Group Internal Audit Department. Group Internal Audit is responsible for advising 
all levels of management and the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, on the quality of the operational systems of control for all parts of
the Group. This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control. Group Internal Audit functions
by conducting independent appraisals leading to reports detailing findings, implications and recommendations. Group Internal Audit engages in a cycle
of financial, operational and risk reviews both on scheduled and random bases; the Group Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
(d) Risk Assessment and Risk Control
An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and the implementation of appropriate controls designed 
to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
The approach adopted by your Directors involves a process which is designed to encourage divisional operational staff to critically examine their
responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business. In order 
for this process to succeed it is essential that  ownership' of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management 
as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board has devolved to the Audit Committee the task of implementing and maintaining an
appropriate risk assessment and control programme. 
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues that the Board has identified as being critical to the success and
effectiveness of the risk management and control programme, and in formulating its approach has structured the programme around the key areas of:
  Clear leadership from the Board
  The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in line management culture
  Clear communication of the principles involved
  Active support and involvement of the internal audit function
  Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business.
As part of the risk management regime a disaster recovery plan has been developed and tested for the Group's key locations and provides for recovery
procedures for all the primary business functions. 
4 Going Concern
The Directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in the preparation of the Accounts.