 The Combined Code
The directors have set out below how the principles of the
Combined Code have been applied and the extent to which the
Group has complied with the best practice provisions as set out
in the Combined Code. 
Board of directors 
As at 31 December 2003 the Board of directors comprised
four executive directors and three non-executive directors.
Dr Nowell Stebbing resigned as Chairman and a director on 
13 May 2003 which led to a reorganisation of the various Board
committees, as disclosed below. Dr John Brown was appointed as
a non-executive director on 23 February 2004. Biographical details
of current directors are available on page 9.
The directors have a considerable breadth and depth of relevant
experience and each brings an independent judgement to bear 
on matters of strategy, performance, resources and standards of
conduct. Appropriate training is made available to directors to assist
them in the discharge of their duties and each has access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary. Procedures have
been established for directors to take independent professional
advice at the Company's expense.
The Board meets at least nine times a year to consider all 
significant issues as well as matters reserved specifically for 
Board consideration. Where appropriate, the Board may meet 
more frequently to consider major items of business. There is a
formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its decision
including the determination and monitoring of Group strategy, the
consideration and approval of significant transactions, resource
commitments and major capital expenditure programmes, the
approval and monitoring of progress against budgets, the
implementation and monitoring of risk management and internal
control policies and the consideration and approval of annual and
interim financial statements. Certain Board responsibilities may be
delegated to Committees of the Board. Appropriate information 
is provided to the Board in advance of Board meetings and the
Chairman ensures that all directors are properly briefed on issues
arising at Board meetings.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate. 
David Lee had been identified as the senior independent
non-executive director until his appointment as Chairman 
on 13 May 2003, upon the resignation of Nowell Stebbing.
On 15 December 2003 Ron Long was identified as the senior
independent non-executive director.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors at 
31 December 2003 were independent of management and free
from any business or other relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. As at 
31 December 2003, Barry Price had beneficial interests in 22,094
share options. All conditions relating to the exercise of these options
have been satisfied and in the opinion of the Board, the share
options do not impair the independent status of Dr Price. 
Committees of the Board
Remuneration committee 
The remuneration committee is comprised entirely of non-executive
directors. The remuneration committee was chaired by Nowell
Stebbing until his resignation in May 2003. The remuneration
committee has subsequently been chaired by Barry Price. 
David Lee and Ron Long are also members of the committee 
which meets at least twice a year. The function of the remuneration
committee and its policy on remuneration are detailed on page 12.
Audit committee 
The audit committee is comprised of Barry Price and Ron Long 
and was chaired by Mr Lee until May 2003 when he became
Chairman of Pharmagene plc. Since that date Mr Long has been
Chairman of the audit committee. Mr Lee stepped down as a
member of the audit committee in February 2004 in line with the
revised Combined Code but will continue to attend committee
meetings by invitation. This committee meets at least twice a year
to review the scope and results of the audit and the Group's
accounting policies and financial reporting. 
The committee also reviews the Group's annual and interim reports
and provides a forum through which the Group's external auditors
report to the Board. Members of executive management and
the Group's auditors are also invited to attend as appropriate.
At least once a year, the committee meets with the auditors 
with no executive directors present.
The audit committee and the Board have considered the need for
an internal audit function and concluded that, for the Group at its
current stage of development, such a function is not required.
Nomination committee 
The nomination committee is comprised of all of the non-executive
directors and was chaired by Nowell Stebbing until his resignation 
in May 2003. Subsequently David Lee has chaired the nomination
committee. The Chief Executive Officer is normally invited to
attend meetings. It meets as and when necessary to review and
recommend appointments to the Board. 
Executive committee 
Operational decision making is delegated to the executive
committee, a committee comprising the executive directors
plus Tom Foy, Chief Operating Officer and Ronald Openshaw,
Executive VP Corporate Development. The executive committee
meets formally on a monthly basis and as and when necessary
to discuss significant matters which may arise in the course
of business.
Corporate governance
Pharmagene plc Annual report 2003 10 Internal control
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains
an adequate system of risk management and internal controls and
for reviewing its effectiveness. Any system of internal control is
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and will only provide
reasonable rather than absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. A continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant business, operational,
financial, compliance and other risks faced by the Group has been
in place for the whole of 2003 and up to the date of approval of
the annual report. This includes a review of the Group's system
of internal control. The key features of the Group's internal control
system are:
  clear statements on mission and strategy;
  clearly identified and properly communicated business objectives;
  an organisational structure which is appropriate to the needs of
the Group and which may be subject to periodic review as those
needs change;
  clear and appropriate delegated authorities;
  financial approval and reporting procedures which enable
progress against business objectives to be monitored and
performance against budget to be compared each month; and
  identification of risks and controls in place to manage those risks. 
Risk management issues are monitored by the Board twice a year.
This process accords with the guidance issued on internal control
by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Statement of compliance
The Board believes it has complied with the relevant principles 
and provisions of the Combined Code throughout the period under
review save in respect of the identification of a senior independent
non-executive director between May and December, as referred to
on page 10.
Communication with shareholders
The Board attaches a high priority to effective communications
with shareholders, both private and institutional. Representatives
of the Board, normally the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, meet with institutional shareholders twice a year
following the publication of the Group's interim and annual results.
Other meetings are held as and when requested. All shareholders
are sent copies of the Annual and Interim Reports and given notice
to attend the Company's annual general meeting. Shareholders
whose shares are held by nominees may receive copies of such
communications on request. The annual general meeting offers the
opportunity for private and institutional shareholders to question
the directors and their participation is welcomed. 
In addition, the Company has established an internet website
(www.pharmagene.com) to provide additional information and
access to press releases issued by the Group. The Group's
presentations to analysts on the interim and full year results 
are also placed on the website.
The BioIndustry Association (BIA ) Code of Best Practice
Pharmagene plc is a member company of the UK BioIndustry
Association and as such is required to support and adhere to the
principles and provisions embedded within the BIA Code. The BIA
Code has established principles of best practice for communicating
and managing information in a way that is fair, equal and balanced
for all interested parties. The Board is committed to the principles of
the Code and seeks to comply with best practice as prescribed in
the BIA Code. On 2 February 2004, Dr Riddell was appointed
Deputy Chairman of the BIA.
Going concern 
At 31 December 2003, the Group had cash and short-term
investments of  21.6m. As a result, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate cash resources to fund
the requirements of the business for at least the next 12 months
and have therefore adopted the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Revised Combined Code
The Board has reviewed the new Combined Code on Corporate
Governance effective for years ending on or after November 2003
and has, during the course of 2003, implemented a number of
measures to address compliance during 2004. This included
planning for the introduction of formal director and Board
evaluation, updating of the Terms of Reference of the Board and
its committees as well as the matters reserved for the Board and
delegated powers. In addition, as indicated above, Mr Lee having
been appointed Chairman of the Company, stepped down from
membership of the audit committee but will continue to attend 
audit committee meetings by invitation. 
By order of the Board
John Murphy
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary
Pharmagene plc Annual report 2003 11