 Pilat Media Global plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 14
Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance. The Board is accountable to the Company's
shareholders for good Corporate Governance. This statement describes how the principles of Corporate Governance
are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with the Combined Code for Corporate Governance
appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
The Company has been in full compliance, as far as is appropriate for a Company of its size, with the provisions
set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year. Details can be found below.
The workings of the Board and its committees
The Board
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, one other executive director and two
other independent non-executive Directors. Concerns relating to the executive management of the Company or the
performance of the other non-executive Directors may be raised with the non-executive Chairman. The biographies
appear on page 10. These demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement
on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group. A statement of the Directors'
responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 17 and a statement on going concern is given on page 16.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. All Directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed
and that applicable rules and regulation are complied with. In addition, the Company Secretary ensures that the Directors
receive appropriate training as necessary. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the
Board as a whole.
The Board meets regularly, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring
strategy and examining major acquisitions and possibilities. The non-executive Directors have a particular
responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive Directors are fully considered. To enable the
Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed
by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings. The Chairman ensures that the Directors
take independent professional advice as required. 
The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the Groups affairs:
Nomination committee
The nomination committee, which is chaired by Julian Paul, comprises also Michael Rosenberg and Samuel Sattath.
The committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance
and structure of the Board. In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants may be used to assist the process.
Remuneration committee
The Group's remuneration committee, which is chaired by Samuel Sattath, comprises also Michael Rosenberg
and Julian Paul. It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference,
on the Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost. The committee determines the contract terms,
remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive Directors, including share option schemes, pension rights
and compensation payments. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive Directors. Pilat Media Global plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration and service contracts are given in the report of the
Directors on remuneration on page 13. 
Audit committee
The audit committee is chaired by Julian Paul. Its other members are Michael Rosenberg and Samuel Sattath. The committee
meets not less than twice annually. The committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings
are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and annual accounts
before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the
information reported to the shareholders. The audit committee advises the Board on the appointment of external
auditors and their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the
audit with external auditors. The audit committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and
objectivity of the external auditors. A formal statement of independence is received from the external auditors each year.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders. The Chairman and Chief Executive
Statement include a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular dialogue with
institutional shareholders including presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement of the year end
results and at the half year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their
participation. The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees
are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting on 27 May 2004 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on page 37.
Audit and internal control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control. Internal control
systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group concerned and the risks to which it is exposed,
and by their nature can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code (the Turnbull guidance), the Board confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that has been in place for the year under review and up to
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and this process has been regularly reviewed by the Board
and accords with the guidance. The key elements for the year under review have been:
Management structure
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved
for decision by the Board. Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects for the
Group's affairs. The executive Directors meet with senior executives and divisional management weekly, to discuss
day-to-day operational matters. Pilat Media Global plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 16
Corporate Governance (cont.)
Finance and accounting principles
The Directors and senior accounts staff are well aware of the financial and accounting policies and procedures to be
applied throughout the Group. The Directors intend to comply with best practice when selecting accounting policies
and preparing the accounts. The impact of new accounting policies is reviewed when they are introduced and
discussed with external financial advisers, if necessary, in order to obtain a fuller understanding.
Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected
are communicated through the corporate culture.
Identification of business risks
The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the
appropriate course of action to manage those risks.
Budgetary process
Each year the Board approves the annual budget. Key risk areas are identified. Performance is monitored and
relevant action is taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting to the Board of variances from the budget,
updated forecast for the year together with information on the key risk areas.
Investment appraisal
Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified
levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board. Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is
complete, and for some projects, during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; major overruns are investigated.
Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
Internal audit
Given the size of the Company, the relative simplicity of the systems and the close involvement of the senior
management, the Board considers that there is no current requirement for an internal audit function. This will
be kept under review.
Audit committee
The audit committee monitors, through regular reports, the controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the
control environment. The audit committee also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control
issues raised by the external auditors.
The audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it has operated during the year
and reported its conclusions to the Board.
Going concern
Having made appropriate enquiries and having examined the major areas which could affect the Group's financial
position, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable
future. Accordingly they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.