 Pilat Media Global Plc Annual Report 2010 www.pilatmedia.com
12
Corporate governance
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The board is accountable to the company's shareholders 
for good corporate governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied by the company.
The workings of the board and its committees
The board
The board currently comprises the non-executive chairman, the chief executive, one other executive director and three other 
non-executive directors. Concerns relating to the executive management of the group or the performance of the other non-executive 
directors may be raised with the non-executive chairman. The directors' biographies appear on page 8. These demonstrate a range 
of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of 
conduct, which is vital to the success of the group. The board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the 
group. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 14 and the statement on going concern 
is given on page 13.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures 
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The appointment and removal of the company secretary 
is a matter for the board as a whole.
The board meets regularly, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy and examining 
major acquisitions and possibilities. The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed 
by the executive directors are fully considered. To enable the board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely 
information. Briefing papers are distributed by the company secretary to all directors in advance of board meetings. The chairman 
ensures that the directors take independent professional advice as required. 
The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the group's affairs:
Remuneration Committee
The group's Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Samuel Sattath, comprises also Michael Rosenberg, Alex Rabinovitch and 
Julian Paul (until 17 March 2011). It is responsible for making recommendations to the board, within agreed terms of reference, on the 
company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost. The committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other 
benefits for each of the executive directors, including share options, pension rights and compensation payments. The board itself 
determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Further details of the company's policies on remuneration and service contracts are given in the report of the directors on remuneration 
on page 11. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Samuel Sattath and Julian Paul (until 17 March 2011). Its other member is Michael Rosenberg. 
The committee meets not less than twice annually. The committee provides a forum for reporting by the group's external auditors. 
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the Quarterly and Annual Reports before their submission 
to the board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. 
The Audit Committee advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and its remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, 
and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost 
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. A formal statement of independence is received from 
the external auditors each year.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Samuel Sattath (Julian Paul until 17 March 2011), comprises also Michael Rosenberg 
and Alex Rabinovitch. The committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the board, having regard to the balance 
and structure of the board. In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants may be used to assist the process.
Relations with shareholders
The board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders. The Chairman's statement and Chief executive's review 
include a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including 
presentations after the company's preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The 
chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available at the Annual General Meetings 
to answer questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 25 June 2010 can be found in the Notice 
of Meeting accompanying this report. Pilat Media Global Plc Annual Report 2010 www.pilatmedia.com
13
Audit and internal control
The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the group's system of internal control. Internal control systems are designed 
to meet the particular needs of the group and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can provide only reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As a result of the listing of Pilat Media Global Plc on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange the board is required to certify that they have in place 
a system of Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. Baker Tilly Israel (Horowitz, Idan, Sabo, Tevet and Cohen Tabach) has audited 
the system of controls and have reported to the Audit Committee that there are no material weaknesses in the internal controls 
of Pilat Media Limited and Pilat Media Global Plc.
The board confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, that 
has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and this process has 
been regularly reviewed by the board. The key elements for the year under review have been:
Management structure
The board has overall responsibility for the group. Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects for the group's 
affairs. The executive directors meet with senior executives and divisional management weekly, to discuss day-to-day operational matters.
Finance and accounting principles
The directors and senior accounts staff are well aware of the financial and accounting policies and procedures applied throughout the 
group. The directors seek to comply with best practice when selecting accounting policies and preparing the accounts. The impact 
of new accounting policies is reviewed when they are introduced and discussed with external financial advisers, if necessary, in order 
to obtain a fuller understanding.
Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training. High quality 
personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated through 
the corporate culture.
Identification of business risks
The board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the group and for determining the appropriate course of action 
to manage those risks.
Budgetary process
Each year the board approves the annual budget. Key risk areas are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action is taken 
throughout the year through the monthly reporting to the board of variances from the budget and updated forecast for the year together 
with information on the key risk areas.
Investment appraisal
Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed 
written proposals have to be submitted to the board. Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is complete, and for some projects, 
during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure and major overruns are investigated.
Appropriate due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
Internal audit
Given the size of the company and of the group, the relative simplicity of the systems and the close involvement of the senior management, 
the board considers that there is no current requirement for an internal audit function. This will be kept under review.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors, through regular reports, the controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment. 
The Audit Committee also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors.
Going concern
Having made appropriate enquiries and having examined the major areas which could affect the group's financial position, the directors 
are satisfied that the group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly they consider it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
 
 