 The Directors acknowledge the importance of the Principles
set out in The Combined Code issued by the Committee on
Corporate Governance. Although not required to make these
disclosures, the Directors set out below how the principles
that they consider to be applicable to the Company have
been applied during the year:
The Board of Directors
During the year to 31 March 2004 the Board comprised a
non-executive Chairman, a Chief Executive, a Finance
Director and two independent Non-Executive Directors. The
Board includes Non-Executive Directors of sufficient calibre
and number to bring independent judgement on the key
issues facing the Group.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year to review
performance against pre-agreed budgets. The Board has a
formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for
decision covering overall strategy, acquisition and
divestment policy, approval of budgets and major capital
expenditure projects and general treasury and risk
management policies. To enable the Board to discharge its
duties, all Directors have full access to all relevant
information and to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary. The appointment and removal of the Company
Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. In addition,
the Directors may take independent professional advice in
the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's
expense.
A nominations committee is not considered appropriate
because of the small size of the Board but all appointments
or potential appointments are fully discussed by all Board
members. All new Directors and senior management are
given a comprehensive introduction to the Group's business,
including visits to the principal sites and meetings with
senior management. Any training necessary will be provided
at the Company's expense.
The Articles of Association provide that Directors will be
subject to re-election at the first opportunity after their
appointment and then submit to re-election at intervals of
three years. The Chief Executive is not subject to retirement
by rotation, but would expect to submit voluntarily to re-
election at intervals of three years.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of Norman Saunders,
Chairman, and John Hemingway. The Audit Committee
meets at least twice a year and considers the appointment
and fees of the external auditors and discusses the scope of
the audit and its findings. Meetings are also attended by
relevant Executive Directors. The Committee is also
responsible for monitoring compliance with accounting and
legal requirements and for reviewing the annual and interim
financial statements prior to their submission for approval by
the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of John Hemingway,
Chairman, and Norman Saunders. The Committee's role is,
amongst other responsibilities, to consider and approve the
remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors. In
framing the Company's remuneration policy, the
Remuneration Committee has given full consideration to
Section B of The Combined Code. The Report on Directors'
Remuneration is set out on pages 15 to 18.
Internal Control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of
internal control operating throughout the Group and for
reviewing its effectiveness.
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. The Group's system is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives and to provide the Board with
reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally
be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for
appropriate action.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
12 The Company has had procedures in place throughout the
year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report,
which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code published in September
1999.
The Board has delegated the detailed design of the system of
internal control to the executive directors. The Board has
also appointed a manager with specific responsibility for
operational risk management. During the year the ability of
the Group Financial Controller and the Operational Risk
Surveyor to approach the Audit Committee was formalised.
The control framework and key procedures are as follows:
  The Executive Directors meet regularly together, and with
other senior executives, to consider Group financial
performance, business development and Group
management issues. The Directors and officers of Group
subsidiaries comprise executives with appropriate
functional responsibilities. Directors of key operating
companies meet regularly to manage their respective
businesses.
  The Group Board establishes corporate strategy and
Group business objectives. Divisional management must
integrate such objectives into divisional business
strategies for presentation to the Group Board with
supporting financial objectives.
  There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. Major
business risks and their financial implications are appraised
by the responsible executives and endorsed by divisional
management. This is an integral part of the strategic
planning process. The appropriateness of controls is
considered by the executives, having regard to cost/benefit,
materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising. Key risks
and actions to mitigate those risks are considered at each
regular Board meeting and are formally reviewed and
approved by the Group Board annually.
  Divisional budgets, containing financial and operating
targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance
indicators are reviewed by the Executive Directors and
must support divisional business strategies. The
consolidated Group budget is approved by the Group
Board.
  Reports on Group and divisional performances are
regularly provided to Directors and discussed at Group
Board meetings. Performance against both budgets and
objectives together with management of business risks
are reviewed with divisional management, as are
forecasts and material sensitivities. The Board regularly
receives reports from key executives and functional heads
covering areas such as forecasts, business development,
strategic planning, legal and corporate matters.
  There is a group-wide policy governing appraisal and
approval of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
Post investment performance reviews are undertaken.
  Clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate
delegated authorities for executives are in place
throughout the Group.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
All shareholder enquiries to the Directors are attended to by
a Director. There is a regular commentary for shareholders
including presentations after the Company's preliminary
announcement of the year end results and at the half year, as
well as the investor relations section of the Company's
website.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to
communicate with investors and welcomes their
participation. The Chairman aims to ensure that the
Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are
available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Established procedures ensure the timely release of share
price sensitive information and the publication of financial
results and regulatory financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
13 Health and Safety
A high standard of health and safety management is
promoted at all levels within the Group. The Group's health
and safety approach is supported by training programmes at
operating businesses, Group health and safety rules and
monitoring and auditing to promote a high level of
awareness and commitment.
Statement by Directors on Compliance with the
Provisions of the Combined Code
The Board consider that they have complied with the
provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year ended
31 March 2004 which they consider to be practicable and
appropriate for a relatively small public company in
accordance with the recommendations on corporate
governance.
Directors' Responsibilities for the Financial
Statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In
preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
  State whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the financial statements; and
  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the
above requirements in preparing these financial statements.
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
14