 Artisan (UK) plc Annual report 2005
12
The directors acknowledge the importance of the principles set 
out in the 2004 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Although not required to make these disclosures, the directors set 
out below how the principles that they consider to be applicable 
to the Company have been applied during the year:
The Board of directors
During the year to 31 March 2005 the Board comprised a non-
executive chairman, a chief executive, a finance director and 
two independent non-executive directors. The Board includes 
non-executive directors of sufficient calibre and number to bring
independent judgement on the key issues facing the Group.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year to review performance
against pre-agreed budgets. The Board has a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved to it for decision covering overall
strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of budgets and
major capital expenditure projects and general treasury and risk
management policies. To enable the Board to discharge its duties,
all directors have full access to all relevant information and to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board 
as a whole. In addition, the directors may take independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, 
at the Company's expense.
A nominations committee is not considered appropriate because 
of the small size of the Board but all appointments or potential
appointments are fully discussed by all Board members. All new
directors and senior management are given a comprehensive
introduction to the Group's business, including visits to the principal
sites and meetings with senior management. Any training necessary
will be provided at the Company's expense.
The Articles of Association provide that directors will be subject to 
re-election at the first opportunity after their appointment and then
submit to re-election at intervals of three years. The Chief Executive 
is not subject to retirement by rotation, but would expect to submit
voluntarily to re-election at intervals of three years.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of Norman Saunders, Chairman, and
John Hemingway. The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year
and considers the appointment and fees of the external auditors and
discusses the scope of the audit and its findings. Meetings are also
attended by relevant executive directors. The Committee is also
responsible for monitoring compliance with accounting and legal
requirements and for reviewing the annual and interim financial
statements prior to their submission for approval by the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of John Hemingway,
Chairman, and Norman Saunders. The Committee's role is, amongst
other responsibilities, to consider and approve the remuneration 
and benefits of the executive directors. In framing the Company's
remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has given full
consideration to Section B of The Combined Code. The Report on
Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 14 to 16.
Internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal
control operating throughout the Group and for reviewing its
effectiveness.
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. The Group's system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that
potential problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in 
a timely manner for appropriate action.
The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year and
up to the date of approval of this annual report, which accord with
the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code
published in September 1999.
The Board has delegated the detailed design of the system of internal
control to the executive directors. The Board has also appointed 
a manager with specific responsibility for operational risk
management. The Group Financial Controller and the Operational
Risk Surveyor are formally encouraged to approach the Audit
Committee if appropriate.
The control framework and key procedures are as follows:
  The executive directors meet regularly together, and with other
senior executives, to consider Group financial performance,
business development and Group management issues. 
The directors and officers of Group subsidiaries comprise
executives with appropriate functional responsibilities. Directors 
of key operating companies meet regularly to manage their
respective businesses.
  The Group Board establishes corporate strategy and Group
business objectives. Divisional management must integrate such
objectives into divisional business strategies for presentation to 
the Group Board with supporting financial objectives.
  There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. Major business
risks and their financial implications are appraised by the
responsible executives and endorsed by divisional management.
Corporate governance Artisan (UK) plc Annual report 2005
13
This is an integral part of the strategic planning process. The
appropriateness of controls is considered by the executives, 
having regard to cost/benefit, materiality and the likelihood of 
risks crystallising. Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks 
are considered at each regular Board meeting and are formally
reviewed and approved by the Group Board annually.
  Divisional budgets, containing financial and operating targets,
capital expenditure proposals and performance indicators are
reviewed by the executive directors and must support divisional
business strategies. The consolidated Group budget is approved 
by the Group Board.
  Reports on Group and divisional performances are regularly
provided to directors and discussed at Group Board meetings.
Performance against both budgets and objectives together with
management of business risks are reviewed with divisional
management, as are forecasts and material sensitivities. The
Board regularly receives reports from key executives and functional
heads covering areas such as forecasts, business development,
strategic planning, legal and corporate matters.
  There is a group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval 
of investment expenditure and asset disposals. Post investment
performance reviews are undertaken.
  Clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate delegated
authorities for executives are in place throughout the Group.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. All
shareholder enquiries to the directors are attended to by a director.
There is a regular commentary for shareholders including
presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement 
of the year end results and at the half year, as well as the investor
relations section of the Company's website.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate
with investors and welcomes their participation. The Chairman 
aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees are available at Annual General Meetings to answer
questions.
Established procedures ensure the timely release of share price
sensitive information and the publication of financial results 
and regulatory financial statements.
Health and safety
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at 
all levels within the Group. The Group's health and safety approach
is supported by training programmes at operating businesses, Group
health and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to promote a
high level of awareness and commitment.
Statement by directors on compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code
The Board consider that they have complied with the provisions 
of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2005
which they consider to be practicable and appropriate for a relatively
small public company in accordance with the recommendations on
corporate governance.
Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements,
the directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  State whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing these financial statements.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that the
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.