 Plant Health Care plc
..............................................
..............................................
17
Corporate governance statement
.................................................................................................................................................................
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council published the Principles of Good
Governance and the Code of Best Practice (the Combined Code ). This code was
updated in July 2006.
Since admission to AIM, Plant Health Care plc has taken note of the Combined
Code and has applied its principles of corporate governance commensurate with the
Company's size, notwithstanding that the rules of the London Stock Exchange do
not require companies that have securities traded on AIM to formally comply with the
Combined Code.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and the
statement set out below describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code
are applied.
Board composition The Board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, three executive directors and
three other non-executive directors.
Biographies of the Board members appear on pages 14 and 15. These indicate the high
levels and range of business experience which is essential to oversee effectively a business
of the size, complexity and geographical spread of the Group.
The Board considers all of the non-executives to be independent in judgment and
character, while acknowledging the following departures from the Combined Code's
anticipated criteria for independence:
(i) While serving as non-executive directors of Plant Health Care, Inc., Albert Fischer,
Robert Chanson and Thomas Isler were granted options for their services to that
company. At flotation, these options were exchanged for options in Plant Health
Care plc. The Company will not make any further awards of options to
non-executive directors.
(ii) Robert Chanson was first appointed to the Board of the Group in 1995. He has,
therefore, now served as a director of the Group for over the recommended
maximum of nine years.
Robert Chanson and Donald Marx have informed the Board that they will not be seeking
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2008, and will stand
down from the Board as of that date.
Board committees The Board has established audit and remuneration committees, as described on
page 16. No separate nominations committee has been established; the full Board acts
as such a committee when changes to the Board of directors are proposed.
Workings of the Board The Board meets on a pre-scheduled basis nine times each year and more frequently when
required. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the
requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated widely throughout the
senior management of the Group. The schedule includes matters such as: approval of the
Group's strategic plan; extension of the Group's activities into new business or
geographic areas; any decision to cease to operate all or any material part of the Group's
business; changes relating to the Group's capital structure; major (over $1 million) bids by Plant Health Care plc
...............................................
...............................................
18
Corporate governance statement
continued
.................................................................................................................................................................
PHC Reclamation; contracts that are material strategically or by reason of size; investments
including the acquisition or disposal of interests in the voting shares of any company or the
making of any takeover offer; and the prosecution, defence, or settlement of litigation
material to the Group.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice if
necessary at the Company's expense. This is in addition to the access which every director
has to the Company Secretary. The Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that
Board procedures are followed.
The differing roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged and defined in
separate statements approved by the Board. The key functions of the Chairman are to
conduct Board meetings and meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all directors are
properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions. The Chief
Executive is required to develop and execute business strategies and processes to enable
the Group's business to meet the requirements of its shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a point of contact for shareholders and other
stakeholders with concerns which have failed to be resolved or would not be appropriate
through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director and can
be contacted in confidence through the Company Secretary. The Senior Independent
Director also meets with the other members of the Board, without the Chairman present, on
at least an annual basis in order to evaluate and appraise the performance of the
Chairman.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow directors to discharge their
responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information. In the case of
Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business
progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
The Board conducts an annual Board Performance Evaluation in line with the requirements
of the Combined Code.
Re-election of directors Any director appointed during the year is required under the provisions of the Company's
articles of association to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next annual general
meeting. The articles also require that one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year
and seek re-election at the annual general meeting. The directors required to retire will be
those in office longest since their previous re-election.
Remuneration of
directors
A statement of the Company's remuneration policy and full details of directors'
remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 20 to 25.
Executive directors abstain from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on
Remuneration Committee recommendations where the recommendations have a direct
bearing on their own remuneration package. Plant Health Care plc
..............................................
..............................................
19
Corporate governance statement
continued
.................................................................................................................................................................
Communication The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company publishes an interim statement, as well as its full-year report and accounts.
Both are mailed to all shareholders and upon request to other parties who have an interest
in the Group's performance. Regular communication with shareholders also takes place
via the Company website www.planthealthcare.com/investor.
There is regular dialogue with major shareholders, as well as general presentations after
the interim and final results. From time to time, these meetings involve the non-executive
chairman or other non-executive directors. All shareholders have the opportunity to ask
questions at the Company's annual general meeting.
Internal controls and
risk management
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. However, such a system can provide only reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors recognise that the Group is ambitious and seeking significant growth. There
is an on-going process in place to review regularly the control systems across the Group to
ensure that they develop in anticipation of this growth. Twice a year, prior to the
announcement of the Group's interim and final financial results, the Finance Director
presents to the Board for discussion and approval a summary of the key internal controls in
place during the prior period and proposals for enhancements to these controls in the
forthcoming period. Based on this process, the directors believe that the Group has
internal control systems in place appropriate to its size and nature.
The Board also has in place a formal ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which complies with the
guidance provided by the document: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code.
The Company does not maintain an internal audit function. The directors do not believe
such a function is justified in terms of the scale of the Group or the costs involved.
Auditor independence The Audit Committee has sole responsibility for assessing the independence of the external
auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP. The Committee has had due regard to the document
published in May 2003 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and
Wales: Reviewing Auditor Independence: Guidance for Audit Committees. Each year
the Committee:
  seeks reassurance that the external auditors and their staff have no family, financial,
employment, investment or business relationship with the Company. To this end, the
Committee requires the external auditors and their associates to confirm this in
writing, and detail the procedures which the auditors have carried out in order to
make this confirmation;
  checks that all partners engaged in the audit process are rotated at least every
five years;
  assesses the likely impact on the auditors' independence and objectivity before
awarding them any contract for additional services. It is Company policy to require
Audit Committee approval for all non-audit services provided by the independent
auditors; and
  has as a standing agenda item at each Audit Committee meeting the consideration
of auditor independence.