 24	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Group	 Financial	 Statements	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 March	 2010
Corporate	 Governance	 Statement
The	 Company's	 shares	 are	 quoted	 on	 AIM,	 a	 market	 operated	 by	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange	 plc	 and	 as	 such	 there	 is	 no	
requirement	 to	 publish	 a	 detailed	 Corporate	 Governance	 Statement	 nor	 comply	 with	 all	 of	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 Combined	 Code.	 	
However,	 the	 Directors	 are	 committed	 to	 maintaining	 high	 standards	 of	 Corporate	 Governance	 and	 this	 statement	 sets	 out	 how	 the	
Board	 has	 applied	 the	 principles	 of	 good	 Corporate	 Governance	 in	 its	 management	 of	 the	 business	 in	 the	 period	 ended	 31 March	
2010,	 relevant	 to	 the	 Group's	 size	 and	 complexity.	
The	 Board
The	 Board	 is	 responsible	 for	 overall	 strategy,	 major	 finance	 matters	 and	 internal	 financial	 control.	 It	 also	 monitors	 executive	
management	 in	 the	 business	 through	 its	 review	 of	 financial,	 strategic	 and	 operational	 matters.
The	 Board	 currently	 comprises	 two	 Executive	 and	 three	 Non-Executive	 Directors.	 The Non-Executive	 Directors,	 namely	 Martin	
Robinson,	 David	 McNeilly	 and	 Edward	 Sharkey,	 all	 have	 relevant	 and	 complementary	 expertise	 gained	 from	 differing	 business	
backgrounds,	 materially	 enhancing	 the	 judgement	 and	 overall	 performance	 of	 the	 Board.	 The	 Board	 believes	 that	 the	 Non-
Executive	 Directors	 are	 all	 independent,	 notwithstanding	 that	 one	 of	 the	 three	 Non-Executive	 Directors	 was	 granted	 options	 one	
year	 prior	 to	 AIM	 admission,	 when	 the	 Company	 was	 a	 private	 company.	 It	 is	 common	 practice	 amongst	 venture	 capital	 owned	
companies	 to	 offer	 share	 options	 in	 order	 to	 attract	 the	 services	 of	 high	 calibre	 Non-Executives.	 Martin	 Robinson	 is	 also	 a	
shareholder.
As	 part	 of	 its	 leadership	 and	 control	 of	 the	 Company,	 the	 Board	 has	 an	 agreed	 list	 of	 items	 that	 are	 specifically	 reserved	 for	 its	
consideration.	 These	 include	 strategy	 and	 management,	 approval	 and	 monitoring	 of	 budgets,	 financial	 reporting,	 internal	 controls,	
major	 contracts,	 external	 communications	 with	 investors,	 Executive	 Committee	 appointments	 and	 remuneration,	 appropriate	
delegation	 of	 authority	 and	 corporate	 governance	 matters.
The	 Board	 which	 meets	 regularly,	 at	 least	 ten	 times	 per	 year,	 receives	 timely	 documentation	 ahead	 of	 meetings	 which	 includes	
reports	 from	 all	 members	 of	 the	 Executive	 Committee	 on	 their	 areas	 of	 responsibility.	
Board	 Committees
The	 Board	 has	 established	 Audit	 and	 Remuneration	 Committees,	 each	 with	 defined	 terms	 of	 reference.
Audit Committee
This	 comprises	 the	 Non-Executive	 Directors	 with	 Martin	 Robinson	 as	 Chairman.	 The Committee	 meets	 at	 least	 twice	 each	 year	
and	 the	 meetings	 are	 arranged	 to	 tie	 in with	 the	 Company's	 financial	 calendar.	 The	 external	 auditors	 attend	 the	 meetings	 at which	
half	 year	 or	 full	 year	 results	 are	 reviewed	 and	 reported	 on	 as	 appropriate,	 both	 in	 the	 presence	 and	 absence	 of	 management.
The	 Committee's	 terms	 of	 reference	 include	 reviewing	 the	 Group's	 accounting	 policies,	 financial	 reporting,	 internal	 control	 and	 risk	
management	 processes.	 It	 also	 reviews	 the	 need	 to	 appoint	 an	 internal	 audit	 function,	 and	 considers	 the	 appointment	 and	 fees of	
the	 external	 auditors	 together	 with	 their	 independence	 and	 objectivity.	 The outcomes	 of	 the	 meetings	 are	 reported	 to	 the	 Board.
Remuneration Committee
This	 comprises	 the	 Non-Executive	 Directors	 with	 Martin	 Robinson	 as	 Chairman.	 It meets	 at	 least	 twice	 each	 year	 and	 makes	
recommendations	 to	 the	 Board	 on	 the	 policy,	 structure	 and	 amount	 of	 the	 remuneration	 of	 all	 Executive	 Committee	 members.	 	
The	 Committee	 also	 reviews	 and	 approves	 share-based	 compensation	 schemes	 and	 awards	 for	 all	 levels	 of	 the	 employees	 in	 	
the	 Company.
The	 Directors'	 Remuneration	 Report	 is	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 27	 to	 28.
Risk	 assessment	 and	 internal	 controls
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 ensuring	 that	 the	 Group	 maintains	 a	 system	 of	 internal	 control	 and	 for	 reviewing	 its	
effectiveness.	 There	 are	 practical	 limits	 to	 what	 can	 be	 achieved	 in	 a	 company	 of	 Plant	 Impact's	 size.	 Accordingly,	 the	 system	 is	
designed	 to	 manage	 rather	 than	 eliminate	 the	 risk	 of	 failure	 to	 achieve	 business	 objectives	 and	 can	 only	 provide	 reasonable	 and	 not	
absolute	 assurance	 against	 material	 misstatement	 or	 loss. 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 25 	
	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Group	 Financial	 Statements	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 March	 2010	
The	 Group,	 in	 administering	 its	 business,	 has	 put	 in	 place	 strict	 authorisation,	 approval	 and	 control	 levels	 within	 which	 senior	
management	 operates.	 These	 controls	 reflect	 the	 Group's	 organisational	 structure	 and	 business	 objectives.	 This	 control	 system	
includes	 clear	 lines	 of	 accountability	 to	 cover	 all	 areas	 of	 the	 organisation.	 The	 Group	 has	 a	 comprehensive	 budgeting	 and	
reporting	 system	 in	 place	 such	 that	 financial	 performance	 is	 monitored	 both	 by	 the	 Executive	 Committee	 and	 the	 Board.	
This includes	 a	 comparison	 of	 actual	 results	 to	 budget,	 variance	 analysis	 and	 re-forecasting	 of	 projected	 results.
The	 Group	 has	 established	 an	 Executive	 Committee	 comprising	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 all	 other	 functional	 heads.	 The	 Executive	
Committee	 meets	 at	 least	 once	 a	 month	 to	 monitor	 and	 review	 progress	 on	 each	 of	 the	 Company's	 projects	 as	 well	 as	 general	 HR	
and	 management	 matters.	 Each	 member	 of	 the	 Committee	 operates	 within	 a	 clearly	 defined	 Group	 structure	 and	 has	 appropriate	
operational	 authority.
Shareholder	 relations
The	 Board	 recognises	 the	 importance	 of	 continual	 communication	 with	 shareholders	 and	 maintains	 a	 programme	 of	 regular	
dialogue	 with	 its	 investors,	 including	 presentations	 following	 the	 Company's	 announcements	 of	 its	 preliminary	 full	 year	 figures	 and	
of	 the	 half	 year	 results.	 Separate	 announcements	 of	 all	 material	 events	 are	 made	 as	 necessary	 by	 press	 releases	 that	 are	 posted	
on	 the	 Company's	 website.	 This	 provides	 additional	 information	 about	 the	 Company	 and	 allows	 access	 to	 reports	 and	 accounts,	
press	 releases	 and	 other	 materials	 issued	 by	 the	 Company.	 There	 is	 also	 an	 opportunity	 at	 the	 Company's	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	
for	 individual	 shareholders	 to	 raise	 general	 business	 matters	 with	 the	 full	 Board.	 The	 Chairman	 of	 the	 Audit	 and	 Remuneration	
Committees	 will	 be	 available	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 to	 answer	 questions.
Plant	 Impact's	 share	 price	 is	 available	 via	 a	 link	 on	 its	 website	 (www.plantimpact.com)	 to	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange	 website	 and	
via	 the	 Stock	 Exchange	 website	 (www.londonstockexchange.com)	 using	 the	 symbol	 PIM.	 Plant	 Impact's	 shares	 are	 also	 traded	 on	
the	 PLUS	 Market	 (www.plusmarketsgroup.com)	 using	 the	 symbol	 PIM.
Statement	 of	 Directors'	 responsibilities
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 preparing	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 the	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	
and regulations.
Company	 law	 requires	 the	 Directors	 to	 prepare	 financial	 statements	 for	 each	 financial	 year.	 Under	 that	 law	 the	 Directors	 have	
elected	 to	 prepare	 financial	 statements	 for	 the	 Group	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 as	 adopted	
by the	 European	 Union	 (IFRSs)	 and	 for	 the	 Parent	 Company	 in	 accordance	 with	 United	 Kingdom	 Accounting	 Standards	 (United	
Kingdom	 Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	 Practice).	 The	 financial	 statements	 are	 required	 by	 law	 to	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	
state	 of	 affairs	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 Parent	 Company	 and	 of	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 of	 the	 Group	 for	 that	 period.	 In	 preparing	 these	 financial	
statements,	 the	 Directors	 are	 required	 to:
	 - 	 select	 suitable	 accounting	 policies	 and	 then	 apply	 them	 consistently;
	 - make	 judgements	 and	 estimates	 that	 are	 reasonable	 and	 prudent;
	 - 	 state	 whether	 applicable	 IFRSs	 have	 been	 followed,	 subject	 to	 any	 material	 departures	 disclosed	 and	 explained	 in	 the	 financial	
statements;	 and
	 - 	 prepare	 the	 financial	 statements	 on	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 unless	 it	 is	 inappropriate	 to	 presume	 that	 the		 Company	 will	
continue	 in	 business. 26	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Group	 Financial	 Statements	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 March	 2010
Corporate	 Governance	 Statement	 continued
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 keeping	 adequate	 accounting	 records	 that	 disclose	 with	 reasonable	 accuracy	 at	 any	 time	 the	
financial	 position	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 enable	 them	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 financial	 statements	 comply	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006.
They	 are	 also	 responsible	 for	 safeguarding	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 hence	 for	 taking	 reasonable	 steps	 for	 the	 prevention	
and detection	 of	 fraud	 and	 other	 irregularities.
In	 so	 far	 as	 each	 of	 the	 Directors	 is	 aware:
	 - 	 there	 is	 no	 relevant	 audit	 information	 of	 which	 the	 Company's	 auditors	 are	 unaware;	 and
	 - 	 the	 Directors	 have	 taken	 all	 steps	 that	 they	 ought	 to	 have	 taken	 to	 make	 themselves	 aware	 of	 any	 relevant	 audit	 information	
and to	 establish	 that	 the	 auditors	 are	 aware	 of	 that	 information.
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	 maintenance	 and	 integrity	 of	 the	 corporate	 and	 financial	 information	 included	 on	 the	
Company's	 website.	 Legislation	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 governing	 the	 preparation	 and	 dissemination	 of	 financial	 statements	
may differ	 from	 legislation	 in	 other	 jurisdictions.
Auditors
Grant	 Thornton	 UK	 LLP	 offer	 themselves	 for	 re-appointment	 as	 auditors	 in	 accordance	 with	 Section	 489	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	
and	 a	 resolution	 for	 their	 re-appointment	 will	 be	 proposed	 at	 the	 forthcoming	 Annual	 General	 Meeting.	
On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board
Michael Panteli   
Chief	 Financial	 Officer
14	 June	 2010