 16
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Pochin's PLC
APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES
The group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and the board is accountable to the shareholders for
implementation of the principles underlying these standards. The steps taken throughout the group to establish good corporate
governance are set out below.
COMPLIANCE
The company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code (the Code) except that until 1
January 2002 the board had only three non-executive directors, two of whom are not appointed for specific terms of office and
are not independent of the company's management and shareholders. Until this date there was only one non-executive director
who the board regarded as being fully independent and the company has not, therefore, complied with provisions A3.2 and
D3.1 of the Code throughout the year, and still do not comply with provisions A6.1 and B2.2. A second independent non-
executive director was appointed on 1 January 2002.
DIRECTORS
The board supports the concept of an effective board leading and controlling the group. The board is responsible for approving
overall group policy and strategy. It meets on at least six occasions in each calendar year and has a formal schedule of matters
reserved for its decision, including the approval of items of major capital expenditure, treasury management, appointment of
professional advisors and, in a supervisory capacity, formulation of the group's risk management strategy and health, safety and
environmental policies. Management supply the board with appropriate and timely information and the directors are free to
seek any further information they consider necessary. All directors have access to the advice and services of the company
secretary and independent professionals at the company's expense. Training is available for new directors and ongoing training
and education is provided to other directors as necessary. 
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated and clearly defined. Mr. N. J. Pochin is the chairman of the board who
encourages full and open debate on all matters relating to strategy, performance, resources, key appointments, and standards of
conduct at all of the meetings of the board. Mr. P . Walker was the chief executive until his retirement on 30 September 2001 and
Mr. J. H. Woodcock, the managing director, was appointed to the post from that date. The other executive directors are Mr. D.
Shaw, finance director, and Mr. L. R. Murray, construction director.
Following Mr. P . A. Dickson's appointment on 1 January 2002, the board now has four non-executive directors to complement
the four executive directors. Mr. W. G. Underwood is the senior independent non-executive director and Mr. Dickson is the
second independent non-executive director. The other two non-executive directors are Mr. W. R. Verity and Mrs. S. E.
Nicholson, neither of whom is regarded by the board as being fully independent of management and shareholders. The non-
executive directors are all members of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
The board has formally constituted three sub-committees for audit, remuneration and nominations. Membership and a
summary of the terms of reference of the audit and remuneration committees are detailed below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The audit committee comprises Mr. W. G. Underwood (chairman), Mr. P . A. Dickson, Mr. W. R. Verity and Mrs. S. E. Nicholson,
all of whom are non-executive directors. The terms of reference of the committee include keeping under review the scope and
results of the audit and its cost effectiveness. The committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors. It meets
at least twice a year and external auditors attend together with the executive directors if and when required. 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Pochin's PLC
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The remuneration committee comprises Mr. W. G. Underwood (chairman), Mr. P . A. Dickson, Mr. W. R. Verity and Mrs. S. E.
Nicholson, all of whom are non-executive directors. It has the responsibility for making recommendations to the board on the
company's policy on remuneration and also specific packages for individual directors. It carries out the policy on behalf of the board.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The nominations committee comprises all the non-executive directors, Mr. W. G. Underwood, Mr. P . A. Dickson, Mrs. S. E.
Nicholson and Mr. W. R. Verity, together with Mr. N. J. Pochin, who chairs this committee. The committee makes
recommendations to the board on all new board appointments. All directors are subject to re-election every three years and, on
appointment, at the first AGM after appointment.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the company's strategy and performance,
board membership and quality of management. The board has dialogue with certain of its institutional and other shareholders
on numerous issues during the year, and is pleased to promote the mutual understanding of objectives.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. The chairmen of the audit,
remuneration and nomination committees will be available at the AGM to answer questions. Separate resolutions are proposed
on each issue and clear distinction is also drawn between ordinary and special resolutions so that they can be given proper
consideration. There is also a resolution to approve the annual report and accounts. The company counts all proxy votes and
indicates the level of proxies lodged on the resolutions, after they have been dealt with by a show of hands.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board has overall responsibility for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing
basis. The board confirms that, in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (the
Turnbull Report), the group has taken steps necessary to ensure compliance with principle D.2 of the Code.
The board has in place a full risk and control register of the group's activities, in order to, at least annually, monitor and ensure
the adequacy of its procedures for the management and control of risk. This process involves each of the subsidiary company
boards carrying out periodic reviews of the key risk areas within its own business. This includes a review of health and safety
(risks, measures and policies), the identification of the relevant legislation and the identification of commercial risk. Each
subsidiary then reports this information to the board. This process enables the board to identify areas where procedures need to
be changed or implemented throughout the group and to put in place action plans to address these areas. Successful completion
of these action plans is then monitored by the board along with ongoing reviews to identify any new risks.
Although the group has the relevant systems and procedures in place, the board considers the management of risk to be an
ongoing process and in order to increase entrenchment of these procedures throughout the group, the board encourages the
management of its subsidiary companies to, at least annually, review and reconsider their respective risk management strategies
and control measures and also to report to the board on any changes in activity which may have a significant risk management
impact.
In the light of the above, the board is of the view that the group has in place established procedures to identify, evaluate and
manage the significant risks faced by the group. Key elements of the group's internal control procedures are as follows:
  well established budgeting and reporting functions which are regularly monitored throughout the year by the board;
  clear lines of authority between the management of the subsidiary companies and the main board;
  well established procedures by which the management of the subsidiaries submit items of major capital expenditure for the
approval of the main board;
  an ongoing process of reviewing risks faced by the group, along with clear board responsibility for implementing measures to
manage and, if possible, reduce these risks. 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Pochin's PLC
INTERNAL CONTROL (continued)
The board has also reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the group's system of internal financial control for the financial
year and the period up to the date of approval of the financial statements. The systems which the company has in place for risk
management and financial control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the company does not justify it at
present. However, the audit committee will keep this decision under annual review.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.