 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES
The group is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the board is accountable to the shareholders for
implementation of the principles underlying these standards. The steps taken throughout the group to maintain good corporate
governance are set out below.
COMPLIANCE
The board confirms that it is reporting in accordance with the requirements of the new Combined Code (the Code) except in the
following respect, Mrs S E Nicholson, who served throughout the year, was not appointed for a specific term of office and could not be
considered to be independent of the company's management and shareholders. The company has not, therefore, complied with
provisions A3.2, A6.1, B2.2 and C3.1 of the Code. 
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The company supports the concept of an effective board leading and controlling the group. The board is responsible for approving overall
group policy and strategy. It meets on at least six occasions in each calendar year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its
decision, including the approval of interim and preliminary announcements, approval of annual report and accounts, approval of
dividend policy, approval of major capital expenditure, treasury management, appointment of board members and professional advisors
and, in a supervisory capacity, formulation of the group's risk management strategy and health, safety and environmental policies. 
Management supplies the board with appropriate and timely information both informally and formally through a structured reporting
process of committees including an operating executive, finance, IT, HR, safety, health & environment, marketing and innovation.
The directors are also free to seek any further information they consider necessary to fulfil their duties. All directors have access to
the advice and services of the company secretary and, where appropriate, independent professionals at the expense of the company.
Training is available for new directors and ongoing training and education is provided to other directors as necessary.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated and clearly defined. Mr J H Woodcock served as chairman throughout the
year where he encouraged full and open debate on all matters relating to strategy, performance, resources, key appointments and
standards of conduct at all of the meetings of the board. Mr D Shaw served as both chief executive and finance director during the
year. The other executive directors who served throughout the year were Mr L R Murray, construction director, Mr R G Buck, business
development director and Mr J W P Nicholson, property development director. Mr N J Pochin served as part-time executive director
until his retirement on 21 April 2005. Mr D R R Pochin was appointed to the board on 1 June 2004 as construction services director
and Mr J Edwards was appointed to the board on 22 September 2005 as finance director.
Throughout the year, the board also comprised three non-executive directors, all of whom served as members of the audit, remuneration and
nominations committees. The non-executive directors have skills that complement those of the executive directors. Mr P A Dickson is deputy
chairman and the senior independent non-executive director and Mr W G Underwood is also an independent non-executive director. 
The other non-executive director is Mrs S E Nicholson, who is not regarded by the board as being fully independent of management or
shareholders. Mr N R L Fry and Mr M Chadwick were appointed to the board on 22 September 2005. The board considers Mr N R L Fry
to be fully independent but does not regard Mr M Chadwick, being a substantial shareholder, as being fully independent of shareholders. 
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
The board has formally constituted three sub-committees for audit, remuneration and nominations. Membership and a summary of the
terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees are included below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the audit committee comprised all the non-executive directors, Mr W G Underwood (chairman), Mr P A Dickson
and Mrs S E Nicholson. The terms of reference of the committee include reviewing the group's management of risk, internal financial
and operating controls, reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the
auditors. It also reviews annually the need for an internal audit function.
The committee meets at least three times a year and external auditors attend together with the executive directors as and when required.
The committee assesses the objectivity and independence of the auditors at these meetings.
Pages 18/19
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the remuneration committee comprised all the non-executive directors, Mr P A Dickson (chairman), Mr W G Underwood
and Mrs S E Nicholson. The committee has the responsibility for making recommendations to the board for the remuneration policy of the
company and also packages for individual directors. It carries out the policy on behalf of the board. 
In carrying out these responsibilities the committee has had full regard to the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 and the Code. To ensure these requirements were met, the committee received advice from independent
remuneration consultants. 
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
Throughout the year the nominations committee comprised of all the non-executive directors, Mr P A Dickson (chairman), 
Mr W G Underwood and Mrs S E Nicholson and the company chairman, Mr J H Woodcock. 
The committee makes recommendations to the board on all new board appointments. During the year the committee continued to take
advice from external consultants to ensure the most appropriate criteria and methods of selection before selecting the new directors for
appointment to the board. All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following appointment and to re-election
by shareholders every three years thereafter.
ATTENDANCE RECORD
Notes Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Total number of meetings 2004/05 8 5 3 2
R G Buck 7/8
P A Dickson 7/8 5/5 3/3 2/2
L R Murray 7/8
J W P Nicholson 8/8
S E Nicholson 7/8 4/5 3/3 2/2
D R R Pochin 1 7/8
N J Pochin 2 6/7
D Shaw 8/8
W G Underwood 8/8 5/5 3/3 2/2
J H Woodcock 8/8 2/2
Notes:
1. Mr D R R Pochin was appointed to the board 1 June 2004.
2. Mr N J Pochin retired from the board 21 April 2005.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the company's strategy and performance, board
membership and quality of management. The board welcomes and is pleased to promote dialogue with its institutional and other
shareholders on numerous issues during the year and is pleased to promote the mutual understanding of objectives. In accordance with
section D1.2 of the Code the chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. The company arranges for Notice of
the AGM and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. The chairmen of the audit,
remuneration and nomination committees are available at the AGM to answer questions. Separate resolutions are proposed on each
issue and clear distinction is also drawn between ordinary and special resolutions to ensure they are given due consideration. There are
separate resolutions to approve the annual report and accounts and the remuneration report. The company counts all proxy votes and
indicates the level of proxies lodged on the resolutions after they have been dealt with by a show of hands. The company also displays
its interim and final announcements on the company website. Pages 20/21
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board has overall responsibility for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The board confirms that, in accordance with the Guidance on Internal Control (the Turnbull Report), the group has taken steps
necessary to ensure compliance with principle C.2 of the Code. The board has in place a full risk and control register of the group's
activities. This register is reviewed at least annually to monitor and ensure the adequacy of its procedures for the management and
control of risk. This process involves each of the subsidiary company boards carrying out periodic reviews of the key risk areas within
their own business, including a review of health and safety (risks, measures and policies), response to changes in legislation and the
identification of commercial risk. Each subsidiary company reports this information to the board. This process enables the board to
identify areas where procedures need to be changed or implemented throughout the group and to initiate appropriate action plans. The
board monitors progress towards successful completion of these action plans and the identification of any new risks through a process
of ongoing review.
Although the group has the relevant systems and procedures in place, the board considers the management of risk to be an ongoing
process and to increase entrenchment of these procedures throughout the group, the board encourages the management of its subsidiary
companies to conduct reviews of risk management strategies and control measures at least annually and also to report to the board on
any changes in activity that may have a significant risk management impact. In light of the above, the board is of the view that the group
has established procedures in place to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the group. Key elements of the group's
internal control procedures include: 
  well established budget and reporting functions that are regularly monitored throughout the year by the board; 
  clear lines of authority between the management of the subsidiary companies and the main board;
  well established procedures by which the management of the subsidiaries submit proposals for major capital expenditure for
approval by the main board; 
  an ongoing process of reviewing risks faced by the group, together with clear board responsibility for implementing measures to
manage and, where possible, reduce these risks. 
The board has also reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the group's system of internal financial control for the financial year and
the period up to the date of approval of the financial statements. The systems that the company has in place for risk management and
financial control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The board has considered the need for an internal audit
function, but has decided the size of the company does not currently justify it; the audit committee reviews this decision annually. 
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 