 Job No: 11229 Proof Event: 3 Black Line Level: 0 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Porta Communciations Project Title: Report and Accounts 2012 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
15
Compliance
The Directors recognise the value of the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (previously the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance). Although, as an AIM company, compliance with the Code is not required the Group seeks to apply it 
when practicable and appropriate for a Group of its size.
The following statement describes how the Group as at 31 December 2011 sought to address the principles underlying the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Board composition and responsibility
The Board consists of two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors. All Directors are equally accountable for the 
proper stewardship of the Group's affairs.
The Board's primary objective is to focus on adding value to the assets of the Group by assessing business opportunities and 
ensuring that potential risks are identified, monitored and controlled. Matters reserved for Board decisions include strategic 
long-term objectives and capital structure of major transactions. The implementation of Board decisions and day to day 
operations of the Group are delegated to Management. In making commercial assessments the Directors review detailed plans 
including financial viability reports that, among other things, detail the impact of proposals in respect of return on capital, 
return on cash and the likely impact on the profit and loss account, cash flows and gearing. Strategy is determined after having 
taken due regard of forecast domestic and international developments.
Group and divisional budgets and quarterly financial forecasts including net assets and cash flow projections are formally 
reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis. In addition the Executive Directors monitor cash flows on a weekly basis. The Board 
meets normally at least twelve times during the year and is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and 
future development of the Group and the management of its resources. The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved to it for decision; other decisions are dealt with as day-to-day matters by management. In broad terms, the on-going 
remit of the Board is as follows:
  Approval of the Group's annual budgets and forecasts and ongoing review of Group strategy and performance;
  Approval of the annual report and any statements made therein;
  Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies and practices;
  Appointment or removal of directors or the company secretary;
  Approval of appointment of senior staff and setting of their remuneration;
  Approval of any material expenditure or capital commitments;
  Ensure maintenance of robust systems of internal control - including all operating and financial systems through annual 
review and assessment;
  Review of the Board's own effectiveness; and
  Ensure continued compliance with any regulatory requirements.
Directors are, where necessary, able to obtain independent professional advice at the Company's expense and have access to 
the services of the Company Secretary. They are given appropriate training and assistance on appointment to the Board and 
later, if and when required.
The Non-Executive Directors have particular responsibility to scrutinize and assess the strategy proposed by the executive 
management, to evaluate performance, business risk and the integrity of financial information and controls, and to ensure 
appropriate remuneration and succession arrangements are put in place for the Executive Directors. Both Brian Blasdale and 
Raymond McReeve are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of the Code.
The Board is fully aware of its corporate governance responsibilities and for that reason it has been open about the fact that 
David Wright currently holds the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. At this time in the Group's development the 
current combined role is right for it.
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Job No: 11229 Proof Event: 3 Black Line Level: 0 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Porta Communciations Project Title: Report and Accounts 2012 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
16
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2011
The Company is actively seeking to appoint an independent Chairman in order to follow recommended best practice of splitting 
the roles of Chairman and CEO. In advance of the appointment of an independent Chairman, the Company appointed a second 
Non-Executive Director, Raymond McKeeve, to the Board and the experience and city experience which Raymond has brings an 
external dimension to the Board.
Policy on election
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and are 
subject to re-election at least every three years thereafter. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term of office 
which provides for their removal in certain circumstances, including under section 303 of the Companies Act. The Board 
does not automatically re-nominate Non-Executive Directors for election by shareholders. The terms of appointment of the  
Non-Executive Directors can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary.
Board meetings
Fifteen board meetings were held during the year. The Directors' attendance record during the year is:
 Maximum number of  
  meetings available to  Number of meetings 
 be attended attended
David Wright 15 15
Keith Springall (appointed 26 July 2011) 10 10
Brian Blasdale 15 14
Raymond McKeeve (appointed 1 December 2011) 1 1
Adam Reynolds (resigned 26 July 2011) 5 5
Paul Foulger (resigned 26 July 2011) 5 5
Board effectiveness
For the time being, the Board itself considers its effectiveness, and that of its committees and Directors, on an ongoing basis. 
It considers this appropriate to a company of this size.
Audit Committee
To 1 December 2011, the Audit Committee comprised one Non-Executive Director, Brian Blasdale (Chairman) and the finance 
director; since that date the Committee comprises both Non-Executive Directors, with Brian Blasdale as Chairman, and the 
finance director, Keith Springall. The principal duties of the Committee are to review the half-yearly and annual financial 
statements before their submission to the Board and to consider any matters raised by the auditors. The Committee also 
reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors. The terms of reference of the Committee reflect current best practice, 
including authority to:
  recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor;
  ensure the objectivity and independence of the auditors including occasions when non-audit services are provided; and
  ensure appropriate  whistle-blowing' arrangements are in place.
The Audit Committee may seek information from any employee of the Group and obtain external professional advice at the 
expense of the Company if considered necessary. Due to the relatively low number of personnel employed within the Group, the 
nature of the business and the current control and review systems in place, the Board has decided not to establish a separate 
internal audit department. Job No: 11229 Proof Event: 3 Black Line Level: 0 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Porta Communciations Project Title: Report and Accounts 2012 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
17
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Remuneration Committee
The Company has established a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and 
for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. The 
Remuneration Committee comprises Brian Blasdale (Chairman), Raymond McKeeve (since his appointment on 1 December 
2011) and David Wright. The committee considers the employment and performance of individual Executive Directors and 
determines their terms of service and remuneration. The Committee meets at least once a year . The Remuneration Committee is 
also responsible for making recommendations to the Board as regards Board appointments as it feels appropriate and following 
the Board's review of its effectiveness.
Board appointments
The Board of Directors has considered the appointment of a separate Nomination Committee, as recommended by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, however due to the size and nature of the Company, as described above, this function is carried 
out by the Remuneration Committee. The final approval of any appointment remains the responsibility of the full Board of 
Directors.
Internal control and risk
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its 
effectiveness. By its nature, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group continually reviews its internal controls and procedures and corrective actions taken to mitigate risks are identified 
and implemented where thought necessary.
Shareholder communication
The Board encourages regular dialogue with the Group's shareholders and has a policy of making itself available to shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting to which all shareholders are invited to attend.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises that it has a duty to be a good corporate citizen and is conscious that its business processes minimise 
harm to the environment and contribute as far as is practicable to the local community and the Board takes a responsible and 
positive approach to employment practices.
David Wright 
Chief Executive and Chairman of the Board
4 May 2012