 Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
139
Back to the contents
6.9. Audit Committee report
Membership
Current members
   Kobus Moolman, Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee;
   Adrian Coates, Independent Non-Executive Director
 
and 
Senior Independent Director, and
   Edward Dowling, Independent Non-Executive Director
1
.
Former members
   Lord Clanwilliam, Independent Non-Executive Director
2
.
The Board believes that the current composition of the 
Audit Committee has the required level of experience to 
be sufficient to meet the standards imposed by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. In the event that any issues 
should arise which would be deemed outside the areas 
of expertise of the members, independent professional 
advice would be sought.
Key objectives
  To provide effective governance over the Group's finan-
cial reporting and the adequacy of reporting, and
  To effectively oversee the performance of both the in-
ternal audit team and the work of the external auditor.
Committee responsibilities
A description of the Committee's role and responsibilities 
is available on the Company website www.polyusgold.com/ 
company/corporate_governance/audit_committee/.
Meetings and discussions
The Audit Committee met seven times over the course of the 
financial year. The Committee's agenda is linked to events in 
the Group's financial calendar and is predominantly cyclical, 
although each member has the right to call for reports on 
matters of interest. 
Please refer to section 6.3 Board of Directors composition  
of this Annual report for details of members' attendance at 
Committee meetings.
Review of the Committee's work
The Audit Committee met with management, internal and 
external auditors to ensure that management was fulfill-
ing its financial reporting responsibilities to the Directors, 
who approve the consolidated financial statements. The 
Company's external auditors had unrestricted access to the 
Audit Committee to discuss the scope of their audit and 
the adequacy of internal controls, and to review financial 
reporting issues.
Financial reporting and compliance
The Committee's business included the review and approval 
of financial statements for the FY2012 and H12013; review 
and approval of the Annual report and interim management 
report for the FY2012 and H12013; approval of the auditor's 
fees for 2013; review and approval of the annual budget 
for 2014; monitoring of the external audit and audit time-
table for 2013; appointment of the external auditor and, in 
conjunction with the Risk Committee, monitoring of internal 
audit and risk management systems.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has established a continuous process for iden-
tifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the 
group faces and for determining the nature and extent of 
the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its stra-
tegic objectives. The Board regularly reviews the process, 
which has been in place from the start of the year to the 
date of approval of this report. The Board is also responsible 
for the group's system of internal control and for review-
ing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not abso-
lute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C.2.1 of the UK Corporate Gov-
ernance Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness 
of the group's risk management and internal control sys-
tems. The Board's monitoring covers all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls. It 
is based principally on reviewing reports from management 
to consider whether significant risks are identified, evalu-
ated, managed and controlled and whether any significant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for 
more extensive monitoring. The Board has also performed 
a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual report. 
This assessment considers all significant aspects of risk 
1 
Appointed to the Committee on 13 November 2013.
2 
Resigned from the Committee on 13 November 2013. Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
140
Back to the contents
management and internal control arising during the period 
covered by the report including the work of internal audit. 
The audit and risk committees assist the board in discharg-
ing its review responsibilities.
The Audit Committee investigated a range of issues, which 
in their opinion, and that of their external auditors, posed 
a risk of adverse impact on Group financial statements. A 
Financial risk management policy developed in 2011, and 
the principles of a Treasury policy are formally described in 
other policies and documents of the Company. 
Following the decline in the gold price, the Committee in-
vestigated impairment of PP&E, capital construction-in-pro-
gress and exploration assets across the business, seeking 
assurances that the impairment tests used, met the re-
quirements of IAS 36 (Impairment of Assets). In particular, 
management were tasked with performing comprehensive 
impairment reviews at the Verninskoye mine, the Kuranakh 
mine and Natalka project, and examining possible impair-
ment of exploration and evaluation assets (E&E), capital 
construction-in-progress and stockpiles at Nezhdaninskoye, 
Chertovo Koryto, Poputninskoye, Panimbinskoye, Bamskoye 
and some other smaller deposits. As a result, the Company 
recognised impairment charges of USD 472 million in 2013 
(please refer to section 2.8 Financial review , for more in-
formation on impairments). 
Inventory is required to be carried at the lower of its cost 
and net realisable value. The measurement and valuation 
of gold in circuit and stockpiles included in inventory, and 
their net realisable values is complex, involves judgement 
and is based on assumptions about gold content and future 
processing costs. 
During the course of its review of the risk management and 
internal control systems, the Board and the Audit and Risk 
Committees have not identified nor been advised of any 
failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be sig-
nificant. 
Anti-corruption policy
A comprehensive anti-corruption policy has been introduced 
and the Company's external auditor has been tasked with 
examining any related-party transactions to ensure that 
business was conducted  at arms length'. 
Internal audit
Among the Committee's key responsibilities are the moni-
toring of the effectiveness of the Group's internal audit func-
tion and approving its head, approving the annual internal 
audit plan and reviewing reports presented by the internal 
auditor. The Internal audit plan was approved by the Com-
mittee on 20 March 2013. The Audit Committee met with 
the head of internal audit on a regular basis to discuss the 
department's remit. The Audit Committee received internal 
auditor reports on a quarterly basis. The Committee as-
sesses the effectiveness of the internal audit as satisfactory.
External auditors
Deloitte LLP who have been appointed as an auditor since 
admission to premium listing in 2012 provide the Commit-
tee with relevant reports following the audit and review re-
sults, reviews, information and advice throughout the year 
as set out in their engagement letter. Their performance, as 
well as independence, has been formally assessed by the 
Committee having due regard to their expertise, resourcing 
and experience. The Committee performs an assessment of 
the timing of the audit, significant key risk areas covered 
and procedures performed to get the audit assurance. The 
Committee also interacts with the management to receive 
its views and opinions on the work done by its auditors', in 
particular, through an anonymous questionnaire. The Com-
mittee remains satisfied of their effectiveness. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the Committee's choice 
of external auditors and the Committee did not consider it 
necessary this year to conduct a tender process for the ap-
pointment of its auditors.  Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
141
Back to the contents
In accordance with UK regulations, Deloitte LLP adhere to 
a strict partner rotation policy based on the mandatory re-
quirements of Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3. 
The Committee monitors this rotation and confirms that a 
new lead audit partner will be subject for reappointment 
following the completion of the 2015 audit. The Committee 
is aware of the recommendations set out by the FRC in the 
updated UK Governance Code in relation to audit tendering, 
which states that companies should put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every ten years. 
The Committee recognise that as with any complex opera-
tion there is always a risk of fraud and false accounting and 
it seeks to minimise this risk by flagging its concerns with 
both its internal and external auditors and seeking to en-
sure that appropriate tests and audit procedures are used.
There is a non-audit service policy in place, approved by 
the Audit Committee where it is clearly stated that any work 
related to the Unacceptable non-audit services  need to 
be discussed and pre-approved, if applicable, by the Audit 
Committee, irrespective of any amount. Engagements that 
fall within the Audit Services classification of services, as 
set out above, are considered to be pre-approved by the 
Audit Committee to a level of USD 250,000. Audit Services 
engagements with expected fees in excess of this amount 
should be approved by the Audit Committee.
Non-audit services expenditure over USD 250,000 per en-
gagement or USD 750,000 in aggregate requires approval 
by the Audit Committee. Where fees for non-audit services 
in the year exceed USD 750,000 in aggregate, all permitted 
engagements may only be awarded to the statutory audi-
tor with prior approval of the Audit Committee before com-
mencement of the work.
Discharge of responsibilities 
According to provision C.3.8 of the UK Corporate Govern-
ance Code, the Audit Committee reports on how it discharg-
es its responsibilities on the significant issues reviewed by 
the Committee. 
In order to discharge its responsibilities, the Audit Com-
mittee invites the CFO, as well as other executive manag-
ers and external consultants, to attend meetings. The Audit 
Committee discharges financial and corporate reporting, 
internal audit and control, budgeting and planning to the 
management and independent assurance and audit to the 
external auditor. 
Audit Committee statement 
Having discussed information received from the manage-
ment, auditors and consultants, the Audit Committee be-
lieves that the Company's procedures and financial records 
can be relied upon for the preparation of the annual finan-
cial statements. 
The Audit Committee considers that the Annual report is in 
compliance with the FSA disclosure and transparency rules. 
The Audit Committee considers that the annual financial 
statements are in compliance with IFRS. 
The Audit Committee has therefore recommended to the 
Board of Directors that the Annual report be approved.
Approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by
Kobus Moolman 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
London, 24 March 2014