 Corporate Governance Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2005
In June 1998, the Hampel Committee and the London Stock
Exchange published the Principles of Good Governance and Code 
of Best Practice ( the Combined Code') which embraces the work 
of the Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel Committees and became
effective in respect of accounting periods ending on or after 
31 December 1998. In July 2003 the UK Listing Authority 
published the new Combined Code ( the new code').
Although the Group is not governed by the Listing Rules of the 
UK Listing Authority the Directors have given consideration to the
Combined Code and the new code and have applied its principles
where appropriate for the limited size of the Company and its
position as described below.
The Board and its Committees
The Board
The composition of the Board is set out on page 16. The Board
comprises a Non Executive Chairman plus up to three Executive
Directors and four further Non Executive Directors. The Board meets
regularly and has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved
for its decision. It has delegated specific responsibilities to the
Remuneration and Audit Committees which have specific terms 
of reference approved by the Board. Board and Committee papers
are circulated in advance of each meeting and are supplemented 
by reports and presentations so that all Directors are fully briefed
and provided with the information they need. All Directors may take
independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the
Company's expense.
The primary function of the Board is to set Group strategy and 
to oversee the effective implementation of that strategy. The 
Board meets regularly throughout the year with an established
agenda of items dealing with important aspects of the Group's 
affairs including monitoring strategy, approving acquisitions 
and disposals, management performance, major capital and
development expenditure, approving budgets and significant
financing matters. The Board monitors exposures to key business
risks and reviews business performance against strategic and
budgetary goals and development programmes. The Board 
also considers employee issues, key appointments and reporting 
to shareholders.
Details of the Directors' service contracts are given in the Report 
of the Remuneration Committee.
Division of Responsibilities
The Board structure provides demonstrable separation of executive
responsibility for running the business and responsibility for running
the Board. This structure ensures there is appropriate accountability
to the Board and helps safeguard the independence and objectivity
of the Board.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to two principal
Committees, each of which has written terms of reference. In 
line with best practice, the terms of reference of the following
committees have been subject to review within the last 12 months.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Robert Stavis (Chairman) and Hugh
McCartney. The role of the Audit Committee is key both to ensuring
that a sound system of internal control is maintained within the
Group and to ensuring that Portrait Software plc presents (and its
policies support) a balanced, clear and understandable assessment
of its position and prospects. The Audit Committee meets twice a
year and more frequently if required. 
The Committee examines the process of financial reporting within
the Group. It reviews annually the adequacy of the Group's system
of internal controls and the processes for monitoring and evaluating
the risks facing the Group. The Committee reviews the scope and
results of the audit, as well as the fees of the auditors for both 
audit and non-audit services. The Committee is authorised to seek
information from any member of the Group and to obtain external
professional advice if it considers it necessary. The Committee also
reviews the interim and annual results and the annual report and
financial statements, prior to their submission to the Board and
ensures an appropriate relationship is maintained between the
Group and its external auditors.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises John O'Connell
(Chairman), Felda Hardymon and Hugh McCartney and meets
periodically as required. The role of the Committee is to approve
terms of service, agree the remuneration of the Executive Directors
and to determine the allocation of share options within the terms 
of a remuneration policy which is approved annually by the Board. 
Nominations Committee
In view of the size of the Board, the appointment of new Directors 
is considered by the Board as a whole, accordingly there is no
Nominations Committee. 
Shareholder communication
The Company encourages two-way communication with 
both institutional and private investors and endeavours to 
respond promptly to queries received. The Group's website
(www.portraitsoftware.com) provides detailed financial and business
information about the Group. It is the policy of the Company to
ensure that all our market announcements are made immediately
available to all our shareholders via the medium of the Internet. 
Meetings between Directors, designated senior management,
institutional shareholders and other market professionals are held
regularly in accordance with the Company's investor management
programme and always follow the terms of the Company's Market
Communications Policy. 
Shareholders attending the AGM are invited to ask questions during
the meeting and to meet the Directors and other members of senior
management after the formal proceedings have ended. 
Internal controls
The Board attaches considerable importance to the Group's systems
of internal control and risk management with specific emphasis in
the areas of financial, legal/commercial and compliance risk.
These procedures include financial, operational and compliance
19
PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Corporate Governance Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2005
controls as well as risk management, which accord with the criteria
contained in the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code published by the ICAEW in September 1999.
However the internal controls are designed to manage rather than
eliminate risk and the Board recognises that any system can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. It acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring
that the Group's system of internal financial control provides
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information
used both within the business and for publication and to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the Group's assets. 
The Board delegates day to day responsibility for internal control 
and risk issues to the Chief Executive Officer who conducts 
meetings with his senior management team on a regular basis. 
In these management meetings the exposures to financial,
operational and compliance risks are identified, reported on,
assessed and controlled. 
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the ongoing
financial and compliance control procedures. The Board reviews 
the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk
management on a continuing basis by:
  Considering Group strategy and approving an annual budget
based on that strategy and medium-term projections. Core to 
this process is the review of the risks and opportunities facing 
the Group undertaken on a continuing basis.
  Regularly reviewing operational performance and updated forecasts.
  Retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment
policy, the approval of major capital expenditure and financing
arrangements. Below Board level there are clearly defined
management authority limitations for the approval of capital
expenditure, Human Resource actions, significant contracts,
investments, acquisitions and divestments.
  Receiving reports on environmental, social, ethical and health 
and safety matters as they relate to the Group's operations.
  Receiving regular reports from the Audit Committee as to whether
the systems of internal control and risk management are
operating effectively.
These procedures have been in place since the start of the
accounting period, have been reviewed and improved to enhance
their effectiveness during the year, and have remained in place 
up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board acknowledges that companies without an internal audit
function should, from time to time, review the need to establish
one. At present the Board and the Audit Committee feel that current
internal controls are adequate to meet the needs of the business
and, while constantly reviewing controls in all areas, will consider 
the need for an internal audit function as the Group continues 
to develop.
Business and environmental ethics
The Board requires that its employees comply with the laws and
standards of conduct of the countries in which it does business. 
The Directors and employees are all required to avoid personal
conflicts of interest regarding Company business.
In complying with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 in the
United Kingdom, the Group has established a procedure enabling
employees to bring matters to the attention of an appropriate
manager outside of their own department in the event that they 
do not feel able to approach their local line management.
The Board recognises that it is important, both for its employees and
the communities in which it operates, that the Group maintains high
standards of health and safety and takes effective measures to
ensure that its activities do not damage the environment.
In particular the Group recognises the responsibility it has toward the
environment. The Group Environmental Policy addresses compliance
with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, 
waste disposal and noise, the economical use of materials and the
establishment of environmental performance standards. The Group
commenced implementation of this policy during 2003, a process
that has continued in 2005.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, 
at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Statement of responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of 
the profit and loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They 
are also responsible for the system of internal control and for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
20