 Portrait Software plc 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  
for the year ended 31 March 2010 
Page 11 of 50 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
Companies who have their securities traded on AIM are not required to comply with the disclosure requirements of 
the Combined Code.  However, the Board has determined that the Group should maintain high standards of 
corporate governance and whilst not fully complying with the Combined Code,  has adopted procedures and has 
taken steps to adopt the underlying principles, in so far as appropriate given the size of the Group and the nature of 
its operations. 
 
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 
 
The Board 
The composition of the Board is set out on page 6.  The Board comprises a Non Executive Chairman, plus two 
Executive Directors and two further Non Executive Directors.  The Board meets regularly and has a formal 
schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision.  It has delegated specific responsibilities to the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees which have specific terms of reference approved by the Board.  Board and 
Committee papers are circulated in advance of each meeting and are supplemented by reports and presentations 
so that all Directors are fully briefed and provided with the information they need.  All Directors may take 
independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Company's expense. 
 
The primary function of the Board is to set Group strategy and to oversee the effective implementation of that 
strategy.  The Board meets regularly throughout the year with an established agenda of items dealing with 
important aspects of the Group's affairs including monitoring strategy, approving acquisitions and disposals, 
management performance, major capital and development expenditure, approving budgets and significant 
financing matters.  The Board monitors exposures to key business risks and reviews business performance against 
strategic and budgetary goals and development programmes.  The Board also considers employee issues, key 
appointments and reporting to shareholders. 
 
Non Executive Directors are retired by rotation in accordance with the Company s Articles of Association. 
 
Division of Responsibilities 
The Board structure provides demonstrable separation of executive responsibility for running the business and 
responsibility for running the Board.  This structure ensures there is appropriate accountability to the Board and 
helps safeguard the independence and objectivity of the Board.  The Board has delegated specific responsibilities 
to two principal Committees, details of which are described below. 
 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises Geoff Probert (Committee Chairman) and Paul Hewitt who was appointed on 15 
June 2009; the first meeting of the year was held after this date.  The role of the Audit Committee is key to ensuring 
that a sound system of internal control is maintained within the Group and to ensuring that Portrait Software plc 
presents (and its policies support) a balanced, clear and understandable assessment of its position and prospects.  
The Audit Committee meets twice a year and more frequently if required.   
 
The Committee examines the process of financial reporting within the Group.  It reviews annually the adequacy of 
the Group's system of internal controls and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.  
The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, as well as the fees of the auditors for both audit and 
non-audit services.  The Committee is authorised to seek information from any member of the Group and to obtain 
external professional advice if it considers it necessary.  The Committee also reviews the interim and annual 
results, and the annual report and financial statements, prior to their submission to the Board and ensures an 
appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and its external auditors. 
 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises Richard Goat (Committee Chairman, appointed 22 April 2009), Paul 
Hewitt (appointed 15 June 2009) and Geoff Probert, and meets periodically as required.  The role of the Committee 
is to approve terms of service, agree the remuneration of the Executive Directors and to determine the allocation of 
share options within the terms of a remuneration policy which is approved annually by the Board.  
 
Nominations Committee 
In view of the size of the Board, the appointment of new Directors is considered by the Board as a whole, 
accordingly there is no permanent Nominations Committee.  
 
  Portrait Software plc 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  
for the year ended 31 March 2010 
Page 12 of 50 
 
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION 
The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to 
respond promptly to queries received.  The Group's website (www.portraitsoftware.com) provides detailed financial 
and business information about the Group. It is the policy of the Company to ensure that all our market 
announcements are made immediately available to all our shareholders via the medium of the internet.  
 
Meetings between Directors, designated senior management, institutional shareholders and other market 
professionals are held regularly in accordance with the Company s investor management programme and always 
follow the terms of the Company s Market Communications Policy.  Shareholders attending the AGM are invited to 
ask questions during the meeting and to meet the Directors and other members of senior management after the 
formal proceedings have ended.  
 
INTERNAL CONTROLS 
The Board has considered its policies with regard to internal controls as set out in the Financial Reporting Council s 
updated Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control (2005), and undertakes assessments of the major areas of the 
business and methods used to monitor and control them.  In addition to financial risk, the review covers 
operational, commercial, regulatory and health and safety risks.  The risk review is an ongoing process with 
reviews being undertaken on a regular basis. 
 
The Board is responsible for the Group s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.  
 
The Board delegates day to day responsibility for internal control and risk issues to the Executive Directors. 
 
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management on a continuing basis 
by: 
 
 Considering Group strategy and approving an annual budget based on that strategy and medium-term 
projections.  Core to this process is the review of the risks and opportunities facing the Group undertaken on a 
continuing basis. 
 Regularly reviewing operational performance and updated forecasts. 
 Retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment policy, the approval of major capital expenditure 
and financing arrangements.  Below Board level there are clearly defined management authority limitations for 
the approval of capital expenditure, human resource actions, significant contracts, investments, acquisitions 
and divestments. 
 Receiving reports on environmental, social, ethical and health and safety matters, where appropriate, and as 
they relate to the Group's operations. 
 Receiving regular reports from the Audit Committee as to whether the systems of internal control and risk 
management are operating effectively. 
 
These procedures have been in place since the start of the accounting period, have been reviewed and improved 
where necessary to enhance their effectiveness during the year, and have remained in place up to the date of 
approval of the annual report. 
 
The Board acknowledges that companies without an internal audit function should, from time to time, review the 
need to establish one.  At present the Board and the Audit Committee feel that current internal controls are 
adequate to meet the needs of the business and, while constantly reviewing controls in all areas, will consider the 
need for an internal audit function as the Group continues to develop. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Portrait Software plc 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  
for the year ended 31 March 2010 
Page 13 of 50 
 
BUSINESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICS 
The Board requires that its employees comply with the laws and standards of conduct of the countries in which it 
does business.  The Directors and employees are all required to avoid personal conflicts of interest regarding 
Group business. 
 
In complying with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 in the United Kingdom, the Group has established a 
procedure enabling employees to bring matters to the attention of Non Executive Directors or of an appropriate 
manager outside of their own department in the event that they do not feel able to approach their local line 
management. 
 
The Board recognises that it is important, both for its employees and the communities in which it operates, that the 
Group maintains high standards of health and safety and takes effective measures to ensure that its activities do 
not damage the environment. 
 
In particular the Group recognises the responsibility it has toward the environment.  The Group Environmental 
Policy addresses compliance with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, waste disposal and 
noise, the economical use of materials and the establishment of environmental performance standards.  Having 
offices worldwide, the Group is conscious of its total energy consumption and continues to work actively to reduce 
energy usage under the supervision of an Energy Watch Committee with representatives from throughout the 
Group.  The Group also has a long standing series of programmes across all locations targeted at taking practical 
measures to reduce its impact on the environment.  These include alternative transport and car sharing schemes, 
encouragement of nature conservation programmes at our UK headquarters, waste reduction and recycling 
initiatives and measures to reduce air travel.  Our employees embrace these programmes with enthusiasm and we 
aspire to extend our efforts to reduce our impact on the environment even further during the forthcoming year. 
 
GOING CONCERN BASIS 
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, 
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future.  For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 