 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2006 P19
Corporate Governance Report
Corporate governance, in general terms is the way in
which a company is controlled and directed and, in
particular, is concerned with the role of the Board of
Directors, how the Board and Committees of the
Board operate, and accountability within the Company.
The Company's shares are listed on AIM. The Group is
subject to the AIM Admission Rules of the London
Stock Exchange and is consequently not required to
comply fully with best practice corporate governance
provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined
Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority.  However, the Directors believe
good corporate governance is essential and, having
considered the provisions of the Combined Code, set
out below the principles of the Combined Code that
the Group has adopted and how the Group has applied
these principles.  The current size of the Group means
that full compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code is not practical or cost effective.
However, in areas where the Board of Directors
believe that the provisions set out in the Combined
Code are paramount to corporate governance, 
procedures for compliance have been established. 
The Board
The Board of Directors includes a balance of Executive
and Non-Executive Directors.  As at 30 June 2006, the
Board comprised three Non-Executive Directors and
three Executive Directors.  The Executive Directors are
the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the
Group Finance Director.  The Executive Directors and the
Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of business
experience and expertise to the Board's discussions and
decision making.  The Board of Directors has put in
place an organisational structure with clearly defined
responsibilities and delegation of authority. Biographical
details of all the Directors are set out on page 16.
Of the three Non-Executive Directors, the Board 
considers that two are independent of management.
Mark Woodbridge is Group Finance Director of AT
Communications Group plc, which provides 
telecommunication services to the Group. As the 
Non-Executive Directors are not entirely independent,
the Group does not comply fully with the requirements
of the code.
The full Board meets formally each month to consider
all matters of significance for the Group as they arise,
as well as matters reserved specifically for their 
consideration.  These matters include development of
business strategy and policy, the review and approval
of operating budgets and monitoring of business 
performance against objectives, the approval of significant
financing and capital expenditure programmes, the
approval of business alliances and acquisitions and
disposals, the approval of interim and annual financial
statements and consideration of matters relating to
internal control.  The Board is supplied in a timely
manner with all relevant information to assist it in 
the discharge of its duties.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary, Jeremy Lee, who is responsible
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with.  There is a formal procedure for Directors
to obtain independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties should that be necessary,
the cost of which would be met by the company.
To facilitate the effective running of each individual
business unit, the Board of Directors has put in place
an organisation structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority.  Senior
management meet monthly to monitor and discuss all
major issues affecting the Company which do not
require Board Discussion or approval by other Board
Committees.  The company does not presently have a
Nomination committee, as it is not believed to be
appropriate given the Group's present size.  The Board
continues to keep this decision under review. All
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at
the first opportunity after their initial appointment,
and to re-election thereafter, in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that its
policies on remuneration are such that the Group is
able to attract and retain high calibre executives, and
that those executives are rewarded in a way consistent
with the interests of shareholders.  Remuneration and
incentive packages are awarded according to the 
individual's performance, experience and responsibility.
The Remuneration Committee comprises two Non-
Executive Directors and is chaired by David Hughes.
The Executive Chairman and Finance Director attend
meetings of the Committee by invitation.  The
Committee meets at least annually and is responsible
for making recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration policy of the Executive Directors and
senior staff, and for determining salaries, incentive
payments and longer term incentives in the form of
share options.  The remuneration of the Non-Executive
Directors is set by the Executive Directors ensuring
that no Director is responsible for the determination 
of their own remuneration.
In determining the level of remuneration, individual
performance and competitiveness within the sector is
considered when setting or reviewing the remuneration
package of Executive Directors.  Details of Directors
emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report
on pages 21 to 23. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2006 P20
Accountability and Audit
All the Directors are equally accountable under the law
for the proper stewardship of the Group's affairs. The
Board acts in a way which allows all Directors to bring
their independent judgement to bear on issues of
strategy, performance, resources, including key
appointments and standards of conduct.
Audit Committee
The Audit committee comprises two Non-Executive
Directors and is chaired by Mark Woodbridge.  It has
primary responsibility for ensuring that the financial
performance of the Group is properly measured and
reported on, and for reporting on and reviewing
reports from the Group's auditors relating to the
Group's accounting controls.  The Committee monitors
the scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit.
Internal Control
The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the
Group maintains an adequate system of risk management
and internal control.  Due to the relatively small size
of the Group, the processes it has employed to identify,
evaluate and manage significant business risks have
been informal, and have depended upon the close
involvement of senior management, including the 
two Executive Directors in all aspects of the Group's 
operations.
The Group has transitioned itself through significant
change during the last 12 months.  In order for the Group
to maintain an adequate system of risk management 
and internal control, the Group is currently putting in
place a new internal control environment which will be
appropriate for the Group's size and complexity.
The key elements of the Group's internal control are: 
  A clearly defined management structure and delegation
of authority to Committees of the Board, heads of 
department and individual business divisions;
  Regular and comprehensive information provided to 
management, covering financial performance and 
key performance, including non-financial measures;
  A detailed budgeting process and rolling strategic 
plan which is approved by the Board;
  Procedures for the approval of capital expenditure 
and business acquisitions; and 
  Monthly monitoring and re-forecasting of results 
versus budget, with analysis, investigation and 
action taken in relation to variances. 
Full management accounts are normally issued within
ten working days following the month-end.  Full financial
forecast updates are produced monthly and the Group
reports to shareholders bi-annually.
The Group does not currently have an internal audit
function.  The Board believes that this is appropriate
given the current size of the Group.
With the adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards in 2007, the Board has assessed the areas
which it believes the Group is affected by, and is
developing a plan to address these areas.
Relations with Shareholders
The company seeks to maintain and enhance its good
relations with its shareholders.  This is achieved
through the provision of interim and annual reports;
through meetings with shareholders and presentations
to them in general meetings and after major company
announcements; by responses to individual enquiries;
and through the company's website, www.ascribe.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the primary opportunity
to meet individual shareholders, to make presentations
to them, to encourage their participation through
questions and to talk informally to them after the 
formal proceedings.  Separate resolutions are proposed
at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially
separate issue.
The Board is always ready, where practicable, to enter
into dialogue with institutional and individual shareholders
based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
Corporate governance report cont.