  
12 
 
PRIME PEOPLE PLC 
 
Corporate Governance  
 
Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Combined Code 
 
 Corporate Governance 
  
 The Board of the Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and 
ethics. The Directors recognise the value and importance of sound corporate governance and support the 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2010. Although as an AIM listed Company it 
is not formally required to do so, Prime People has sought to comply with the Code so far as is practical and 
appropriate for a public Group of its size and nature. The Group also seeks to comply with the 
recommendations of the QCA on corporate governance.  
 
 A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on page 11.  
 
 The Board has established two committees being the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee each 
of which operates with defined terms of reference. 
 
 Membership of these committees as at the date of this report, the number of meetings held in 2013 and the 
attendance record are summarised in the table below: 
  
Directors Board Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
    
Robert Macdonald  Y (Chair)  N  N 
    
Peter Moore Y N  N 
    
Chris Heayberd  Y  N  N 
    
John Lewis Y  Y  Y (Chair) 
    
Simon Murphy Y  Y(Chair)  N 
     
Number of meetings 2013 4  2  2 
    
Overall attendance record for 2013 meetings 100%  100%  100% 
 
 Below is a brief description of the role of the Board and its Committees, followed by a statement regarding 
the Group's system of internal controls. 
  
The Board and its Operation 
 
The Board of Prime People Plc is the body responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies and 
objectives, and reviewing the management of the Group's resources. 
 
The Board consists of an executive Chairman, Robert Macdonald, two other executive Directors and two non-
executive Directors.  
 
The non-executive Directors are John Lewis and Simon Murphy. Both receive a fixed fee for their services 
and their interests in the shares of the Company are as described on pages 7 and 16 to 17. 
 
Biographies of the board members appear on page 4. 
 
The Board meets up to 6 times each year and more frequently where business needs require and the Directors 
receive monthly management accounts detailing the performance of the Group.  The Board has a general 
responsibility for overseeing all day to day matters of the Company with specific responsibility for reviewing 
trading performance, resources (including key appointments), finding, setting and monitoring strategy,    
13 
 
PRIME PEOPLE PLC 
 
Corporate Governance  
 
The Board and its Operation (continued) 
 
examining acquisition opportunities and reporting to shareholders.  The non-executive Directors have a 
responsibility to ensure the strategies proposed by the executive Directors are fully considered and to bring 
their judgment to bear in this role. 
 
To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely 
access is given to all relevant information.  In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set 
of papers, including monthly business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters. 
 
Directors are free to and regularly make further enquiries where they feel it is necessary and they are able to 
take independent professional advice as required at the Company's expense.  This is in addition to the access 
which every Director has to the Company secretary. 
 
The Board considers itself to be a small board, and therefore has not set up a separate Nomination 
Committee.  Appointments to the Board of both executive and non-executive Directors are based on approval 
by the full Board. 
 
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Company's Articles of 
Association, to retire and seek reappointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.  The 
Articles also require that one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek reappointment at the 
Annual General Meeting. 
 
The Directors have resolved that they will retire at least once every three years even though not required by 
the Company's Articles. 
 
The executive Directors abstain from any discussion or voting at full board meetings on Remuneration 
Committee recommendations where the recommendations have a direct bearing on their own remuneration 
package.   
 
Remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined by the Board.  Non-executive Directors abstain from 
discussions concerning their own remuneration. 
 
The Company publishes a full annual report and financial statements which are available on the Prime People 
website, to shareholders on request and to other parties who have an interest in the Group's performance. 
 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Company's Annual General Meeting. 
 
Audit Committee 
 
 The Audit Committee comprises the two non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by Simon 
Murphy. Its terms of reference require it to meet not less than twice each year and it provides a forum for 
reporting by the Group's Auditor. By invitation, the meetings are also attended by the Finance Director. 
 
 The Audit Committee's principal tasks are to ensure the integrity of the Company's Financial Reporting 
process, review the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls including risk management, review the 
scope of the work of the external Auditor and their independence, consider issues raised by the external 
Auditor, review audit effectiveness and review the half-yearly and annual accounts focusing in particular on 
accounting policies and compliance and on areas of management judgement and estimates.  
    
14 
 
PRIME PEOPLE PLC 
 
Corporate Governance  
 
Remuneration Committee 
 
 The members of the Remuneration Committee comprises the two non-executive Directors of the Company 
and is chaired by John Lewis.  
  
 The committee reviews the Group policy on the Executive Directors' remuneration and terms of employment, 
makes recommendations on this and also approves the provision of policies for the incentivisation of senior 
employees, including share schemes. 
  
 The principal terms of reference of the committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 18.  
The report also contains full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement of the Company's 
remuneration policy.  The committee meets when required to consider all aspects of the executive Directors' 
remuneration, drawing on outside advice as necessary. 
 
Internal Controls 
 
 The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness 
which, by its nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. 
  
 When undertaking their review the Directors have considered all material controls including operational, 
compliance and risk management, as well as financial. 
  
 The Board has assessed the effectiveness of the Group's internal control systems for the period 1 April 2013 
to the date of approval of the financial statements and believes it has the procedures in place to safeguard the 
Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of information used within the business and for publication. 
 
 Key elements of the system of internal control are as follows: 
 
 Group Organisation 
 The Board of Directors meets at least six times a year focusing mainly on strategic issues, operational and 
financial performance. The Directors have in place an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of 
responsibility and delegation of authority. 
 
 Annual Business Plan 
 The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board. 
  
 Monthly Forecasting 
 The Group prepares monthly fee income forecasts by individual businesses which are compared to budget. 
 
 Financial Reporting 
 Detailed monthly reports are produced showing comparison of results against budget, forecast and the prior 
year with performance monitoring and explanations provided for significant variances. Any significant 
adverse variances are examined and remedial action taken where necessary. 
 
 Capital Expenditure 
 Capital expenditure requests are reviewed by the Board. Appropriate due diligence work will be carried out if 
a business is to be acquired. 
 
 Risk Management 
 The Directors and operating Company management have a clear responsibility for identifying risks facing 
each of the businesses and for putting in place procedures to mitigate and monitor risks. Risks are assessed 
during the annual budget process, which is monitored by the Board, and the ongoing Group strategy process.   
15 
 
PRIME PEOPLE PLC 
 
Corporate Governance  
 
 
 Whistleblowing Policy 
 
 The Company is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and the personal and professional 
integrity of its employees, suppliers, contractors and consultants. It encourages all individuals to raise any 
concerns that they may have about the conduct of others in the business or the way in which the business is 
run. The aim of the policy is to ensure that as far as is possible, our employees are able to tell us about any 
wrong doing at work which they believe has occurred or is likely to occur. 
 