 16 Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Corporate Governance Statement
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council in the UK issued the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which supersedes
the Combined Code published by the Hampel Committee in 1998. The revised Combined Code applies for reporting years beginning
on or after 1 November 2003, and so will be reported on in the Company's next Annual Report. This Report has been prepared with
reference to the original Combined Code.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice 
The Board believes that the Company complies with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Code Provision D.3.1 requires the members of the Audit Committee to be named in the Report and Accounts. Ms Christine Soden
(Chairman of the Audit Committee), Dr David Bloxham and Mr Frank Harding are the current members of the Audit Committee. All three
have experience of Audit Committee activities in other groups, and both Ms Soden and Mr Harding are Chartered Accountants. At all
times during the year, the Audit Committee, in compliance with Code provision D.3.1, comprised of three non-executive directors, all of
whom attended each meeting of the Audit Committee held during the year.
Statement about applying the principles of good governance 
The Board has applied principle D.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start
of the year to the date of approval of this Report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. The Board
has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report. This assessment considers all significant aspects
of internal control arising during the period covered by the Report. Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is
set out below and, in connection with directors' remuneration, in the Board's Remuneration Report on pages 18 to 22.
Non-executive directors
The Company currently has three non-executive directors, all of whom are independent. The Company has named Ms Christine Soden
as its senior independent director.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
The Board has divided the responsibilities for running the Board and running the Company's business between the non-executive
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer respectively.
Board balance 
The Company's commitment to achieving a balance of executive and non-executive directors remains. There are currently three
non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Timeliness and quality of Board information 
The Board has sought to ensure that directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings. Board papers are completed
and are distributed well in advance of meetings. The Board considers the adequacy of the information provided before making decisions
and adjourns meetings or defers decisions when concerns exist about the information available to them. The Board has adopted a
formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Transparency of Board appointments 
Mr Frank Harding (Chairman of the Nominations Committee), Ms Christine Soden and Dr David Bloxham are the current members
of the Nominations Committee. The Nominations Committee is responsible for identifying appropriate candidates for the Company's
executive and non-executive posts and for recommending such candidates to the Board. 
Regular re-election of Directors
Code Provision A.6.2 of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code requires all directors to submit themselves
for re-election at intervals of no more than three years. The Company's Articles of Association ensure the Company complies with
this provision of the Code. As disclosed in the Directors' Report, Dr Philip Gould is retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting and is offering himself for re-election. Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17
Dialogue with shareholders 
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its shareholders, in particular by
communicating regularly throughout the year. The Company website www.provalis.com also provides up to date information to
existing and potential investors.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
In applying the principle that the Board should maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment
and the Company's assets, the directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a
system of internal control to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal control
and compliance with laws and regulations. As reported below, the Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee for
more regular reviews of both key risks and internal controls and the Audit Committee has kept these areas under review during the
year. The Board has also reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the Group's internal control
procedures during the year.
In addition, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces. This process
includes analysis of the impact on the operation of key risks and the action being taken to avoid or reduce each risk. The risk
schedule allocates responsibility for management of each key risk to appropriate senior executives. The Group also has a system
of control procedures, including annual budgeting and monthly reporting (in which actual results are compared to budget and
significant variances highlighted), and capital and other expenditure being subject to review in accordance with authorisation
procedures measuring both the financial and legal impact. Compliance with these processes and systems is monitored and any
significant issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
These processes have been in operation throughout the year and up to date of signing this Report and have identified the launch
of in2it A1c onto the US market, the finding of replacement products for the Pharmaceuticals business, reliance on key suppliers
to both of the operating businesses, competitor activity in general and the availability of funding to ensure the future growth of the
business as the key risks facing the Group. Each of these risks has been evaluated and actions have been put in place to address
them that the Board considers appropriate. 
Although the Board and the Audit Committee have implemented the above systems of internal controls, there are inherent
limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has detailed and specific terms of reference covering such matters as membership of the Committee, frequency
of meetings and roles and responsibilities.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year, once each to review the interim and final accounts, and once to review internal
controls and other operating matters. The Committee will also meet on an ad hoc basis if and when necessary.
The Committee reviews the internal controls and risk management assessments at least twice a year. It ensures that any perceived
weaknesses in internal controls are addressed as effectively as possible and that suitable actions are taken to control, manage
or limit business risks. The Committee ensures that the external audit focuses on those areas of most significant risk to the
Group's business.
The Committee reviews the Group's monthly management accounts, budgets and forecasts and compares these with external
evidence in order to ensure that the financial statements appear reasonable. 
The Interim and Annual Reports are reviewed by the Committee, in conjunction with information supplied by the external auditors
and other external sources of advice, in order to ensure they reflect the Group's business operations and comply with current laws,
regulations and standards.
The Audit Committee recommends the appointment of auditors, and reviews the independence of the auditors both before their
appointment and regularly thereafter. The auditors provide the Committee with confirmation of their independence and of their
processes for ascertaining that independence.
The Audit Committee has a policy on those non-audit services that may be provided by the auditors. In essence, the external
auditors may not provide any service which would put them in the position of having to give an audit opinion either upon services
they have provided, or on any areas where they might be required to form a material judgement on which the Group would act.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the need to appoint a dedicated internal audit function. Given the small size and low
complexity of the Group, the Audit Committee currently believes that such a function is not necessary. 