 Corporate governance
20 Proximagen Neuroscience plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Proximagen Neuroscience plc fully supports the principles of
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code ).
As an AIM company, it is not required to comply with the
Code and the directors have taken into account the size and
nature of the Group when applying these principles to
Proximagen Neuroscience plc. This report sets out how the
principles in the Code have been applied by the Group
during the year.
The Board
The Board of Proximagen Neuroscience plc is responsible for
the Group's system of corporate governance and internal
control and is accountable for its activities. During the year,
the Board comprised two executive directors and four non-
executive directors, one of whom is the Chairman. The roles
of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and are held by
different people to ensure a clear division of responsibility.
The role of non-executive directors is to bring valuable
judgement and insight to Board deliberations and decisions.
The non-executive directors are all experienced and
influential individuals whose blend of skills and business
experience contributes to the proper functioning of the
Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully
debated and that no individual or group dominates the
Board's decision-making processes.
During 2009, an evaluation was undertaken of the
executive directors' performance based on information
provided by directors and senior staff. It is the Board's
intention to review annually its performance and that of its
Committees and individual directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and are able in the course of their duties,
if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the
Company's expense. Committees have access to such
resources as are required to fulfil their duties.
The Board receives reports covering finance, business
development, operations and science, together with any
other material deemed necessary for the Board to discharge
its duties. The Chairman is primarily responsible for the
effective operation and chairing of the Board and for
ensuring that it receives appropriate information to make
informed judgements. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it
for decision but otherwise delegates specific responsibilities
to Committees, as described below. The terms of reference of
the Committees are available on request from the Company
Secretary. The Board is responsible for decisions, and the
review and approval of key policies and decisions in respect
of business strategy, board appointments, budgets, items of
substantial investment and acquisitions.
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a
Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee
with written terms of delegated responsibilities for each.
Details of these committees can be found on page 21. 
Under the Articles of Association all directors must offer
themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
One-third of the directors retires by rotation at every Annual
General Meeting and is eligible for re-appointment.
Independent non-executive directors
The Board considers Michael Ashton and Peter Allen to be
independent non-executive directors, both of whom are
available to meet shareholders on request.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of
internal control maintained by the Group and for reviewing
its effectiveness. 
The Board's approach is designed to manage rather than
eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. It
operates with principles and procedures designed to achieve
the accountability and control appropriate to the business. 
The principal features of the Group's internal control
system are as follows:
> an organisational structure is in place with clearly drawn
lines of accountability and delegation of authority;
> Group employees are required to adhere to specified
codes of conduct, policies and procedures;
> financial results and key operational and financial
performance indicators are reported regularly throughout
the year and variances from plans and budgets are
investigated and reported;
> financial control protocols are in place to safeguard the
assets and maintain proper accounting records; and
> risk management is monitored on an ongoing basis to
identify, quantify and manage risks facing the Group.
Shareholder relations
Proximagen aims to ensure a timely, open, comprehensive,
and consistent flow of information to investors and the
financial community. By this approach we aim to help
investors understand the Group's strategic objectives, its
activities and the progress it makes. The Company meets
with its institutional shareholders and analysts as
appropriate and uses the Annual General Meeting to further
encourage communication with shareholders. In addition,
the Company uses the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim
Statement and website (www.proximagen.com) to provide
further information to shareholders. The Company uses the
services of Pelham Bell Pottinger to assist in its communication
with shareholders. Corporate governance continued
Proximagen Neuroscience plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two non-executive
directors: Michael Ashton (Chairman) and Peter Allen. Bruce
Campbell was also a member of the Audit Committee during
the year and until his resignation on 29 January 2010. The
external auditors, Chief Executive Officer and Finance
Director may be invited to attend Committee meetings and,
following each meeting, the Committee and external auditors
have the opportunity to meet with none of the executive
directors present.
The Committee reviewed the half year and full year
results and the Interim Statement and Annual Report and
Accounts prior to their submission to the Board and
considered any matters raised by the external auditors. All
scheduled Committee meetings were quorate and the
conclusions from those meetings were presented to the full
Board. The Audit Committee reviews on an annual basis the
need for an internal audit function. In 2009, in common
with other companies of its size and complexity of operation,
the Group did not operate an internal audit function. 
It is the Group's policy to employ its auditor on
assignments additional to its statutory audit duties where its
expertise and its experience of the Group are important. The
auditor is awarded assignments on a competitive basis.
The Audit Committee pre-approves all permitted non-
audit expenditure incurred and during the year reviewed the
cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the
external auditor. A formal Statement of Independence is
received from the external auditor each year.
At the beginning of 2010, the Committee recommended
to the Board that a review of the current audit arrangements
be undertaken. On approval of this by the Board, a review
process was implemented, overseen by the Committee and
supported by management, whereby four audit firms,
including Baker Tilly, presented their proposals to the Audit
Committee for the 2010 audit. Following the competitive
tender, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board,
and the Board approved, that a resolution be put to
members at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to appoint
Ernst & Young LLP as the Group's auditors from 2010. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee consists of Peter Allen, who
chairs the Committee, Jackie Hunter and Michael Ashton.
Bruce Campbell was also a member of the Nomination
Committee during the year and until his resignation on
29 January 2010. The Committee keeps under review the
Board structure, size and composition, identifies and
nominates candidates for the approval of the Board and
ensures plans are put in place for succession of the executive
directors. 
Remuneration Committee
Michael Ashton chairs this Committee with Jackie Hunter
and Peter Allen as members. Bruce Campbell was a member
and chairman of the Remuneration Committee during the
year and until his resignation on 29 January 2010. The
Committee is responsible for considering directors'
remuneration packages and makes its recommendations to
the Board. The Committee met twice during the year and the
conclusions were presented to the full Board. 
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to attend
Remuneration Committee meetings, other than when his
own remuneration is discussed. No director is involved in
deciding his own remuneration. 
Further details of directors' remuneration are disclosed in
the Directors' Remuneration Report
Going concern
During the year, the Company received cash proceeds of
 49 million (net of expenses) from the issue of new Ordinary
share capital and as at 30 November 2009 the Group had
cash at bank (including fixed rate deposits) in excess of
 55 million. The directors, after considering the Group's
cash flow requirements, have concluded that both the
Company and the Group will have adequate financial
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The directors have therefore prepared the financial
statements on a going concern basis.