 Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
16
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_back_AW.indd	 Proof:	 09	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
introduction
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and the Board believes that this is a key 
element to continuing to deliver the Group's strategy. 
While the Group is not required to comply with the 
provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code, the Group 
complies wherever possible with principles of good 
governance.
s tAtement o F d irectors' res Ponsibilities
The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the 
Group and is accountable to the shareholders for the 
operational and financial performance of the Group. 
The Directors are responsible for internal controls and 
company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year which give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group 
and of the profit or loss for that period. 
A more detailed description of the Directors 
responsibilities in respect of the financial statements  
can be found in the Directors' report.
Goin G concern
Having made due enquiries the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements.
t he bo Ard
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and met 
six times during 2006. It is responsible for:
overall Group strategy; 
approving revenue and capital budgets and material 
expenditure plans; 
approving substantial acquisitions and disposals of 
businesses, subsidiaries or material assets; 
determining the financial and corporate structure of 
the Group (including financing and dividend policy); 
approving material or extraordinary contracts; 
setting the Company's values and standards and 
ensuring that its obligations to its shareholders and 
others are understood and met; and 
ensuring appropriate training of Directors and other 
senior executives. 
Day-to-day management of the Company's business is 
delegated to the management team. At each meeting 
the Board reviews comprehensive financial information, 
produced by management each month and considers 
the trends in the Company's business and their 
performance against strategic objectives and plans. 
It also regularly reviews the work of its formally 
constituted standing committees as described below 
and compliance with the Group's management policies 
and compliance with legal requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All members of the Board and its committees attended 
all scheduled meetings held in 2006 except that  
Mr Dumarey and Mr Humphreys were absent on one 
occasion due to a business trip abroad.
Details of the service contracts of the Executive  
Directors are shown in the Remuneration report. The 
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts 
but have appointment letters, which can be renewed  
or extended.
In furtherance of the principles of good corporate 
governance, the Board has maintained the Audit, the 
Remuneration and the Nomination Committees, each of 
which is comprised solely of the Company's Non-
Executive Directors.
Audit committee
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for 
monitoring the quality of internal controls and ensuring 
that the financial performance of the Company is 
properly measured and reported on. In particular,  
the Audit Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations as to the appointment, reappointment 
or removal of external auditors and monitoring the 
expertise and independence of such auditors. It receives 
and reviews reports from Punch Graphix's management 
and auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts 
and the accounting and internal control systems in use 
throughout the Company. The Audit Committee expects 
to meet at least twice a year and has unrestricted access 
to the Company's auditors. The chairman of the Audit 
Committee was Nigel McCorkell and other members 
were Kenneth Humphreys and Geoffrey White. The  
Audit Committee met twice in 2006.
r emuner Ation committee
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance 
of the Executive Directors and makes recommendations 
to the Board on matters relating to their remuneration 
and terms of employment. The Remuneration Committee 
also makes recommendations to the Board on proposals 
for the granting of share options and other equity 
incentives pursuant to any share option scheme or equity
incentive scheme in operation from time to time. 
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Kenneth 
Humphreys, with Geoffrey White and Nigel McCorkell as 
other members and met twice in 2006.
n omin Ation committee
The Nominations Committee meets as and when 
necessary to assess the suitability of candidates proposed 
for appointment by the Board and to prepare a 
description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment. The chairman of the Nomination 
Committee was Geoffrey White and other members were 
Kenneth Humphreys and Nigel McCorkell. The 
Nomination Committee met once in 2006.
cor Porate Governance r e Port Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
17
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_back_AW.indd	 Proof:	 09	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
r el Ationshi Ps with sh Areholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining 
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders to ensure 
that its strategy and any concerns can be addressed. 
In addition, all shareholders have the opportunity to 
attend the Annual General Meeting where the Group's 
operations can be discussed with the Directors. The 
Chairman and Chief Financial Officer make themselves 
available for meetings with analysts and representatives 
of the major shareholders on the day of the preliminary 
announcement of the annual results and half year results 
or shortly thereafter and upon request at other times of 
the year. They report to the Board on shareholders' views. 
r el Ationshi P with the A uditor
During the reported year BDO Stoy Hayward LLP 
provided tax advice to the Company and its principal 
subsidiaries. The Board has considered the effect on 
independence of the auditor and the objective criteria 
on which any decisions to appoint BDO Stoy Hayward 
LLP should be made. It was concluded that in the 
circumstances its appointment as tax advisors was the 
most cost-effective means of securing appropriate advice 
without a serious risk of affecting the independence of 
the auditor. BDO Stoy Hayward LLP has confirmed that it 
does not consider its independence to be affected. The 
Board has developed policies to safeguard the 
independence of the auditor based on:
internal BDO Stoy Hayward LLP processes to prevent 
information being shared between teams except 
where it is appropriate; 
separate consideration of each category or major item 
of work, including the cost effectiveness of any 
proposed work and the suitability of competing 
advisors; and 
consideration of the total level of fees payable to BDO 
Stoy Hayward LLP and other member firms.
intern Al controls
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group's 
system of internal controls and has established a 
framework of financial and other controls. 
The Board has taken and will continue to take appropriate 
measures to ensure that the chances of financial 
irregularities occurring are reduced as far as possible by 
improving the quality of information at all levels in the 
Group, fostering an open environment and ensuring that 
financial analysis is rigorously applied. Any system of 
internal control can, however, only provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
 
 
 
The major elements of the system of internal control are
as follows:
1.  Major commercial, strategic and financial risks are 
formally identified, quantified and assessed by each 
operating unit during the annual budgeting exercise 
and presented to and discussed with Executive 
Directors, after which they are considered by the Board. 
2.  There is a comprehensive system of planning, 
budgeting, reporting and monitoring of the Group's 
operating units. This includes monthly management 
reporting and monitoring of performance and 
forecasts. The reports are reviewed by Group staff and 
are also submitted to the Board for review. Monthly 
and quarterly reviews are embedded in the internal 
control process and cover each principal operating 
unit. Monthly reviews require each operating unit to 
consider, inter alia, business development, financial 
performance against budget and forecast, and capital 
expenditure proposals. Quarterly reviews of operating 
units also include a review of longer term business 
development performance against budget and 
forecast and all other aspects of the business. They are 
attended by Executive Directors and other Group staff 
as appropriate.
3.  There is a structure which clearly defines lines of 
responsibility and delegation of authority.
4.  Each operating unit is required to comply with defined 
policies, financial controls and procedures and 
authorisation levels which are clearly communicated.
By order of the Board
Filip beernaert
c ompany secretary