  
 
6 Pursuit Dynamics PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
The Board 
Pursuit Dynamics PLC is led by a strong and experienced 
Board. Three out of the current four Directors are Non-
Executive strengthening the independent representation  
of the Board. The Chairman is one of the Non-Executive 
Directors and there is a clear division of responsibility 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. The 
role of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors is to 
review and determine the strategic aims of the Company 
and to monitor performance against the business plan and 
forecasts. The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to 
maintain overall responsibility for the operations of the 
business and the performance against business plans. Under 
the Company's Articles of Association, at least one-third of 
the Board is subject to retirement and re-election each year. 
The Board provides leadership of the Group within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls. This includes 
responsibility for determining the Group's strategy and for 
approving short and medium term plans for achieving this 
strategy. The Board has a schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for the Board and all major and other strategic 
decisions are reserved to the Board which also has 
responsibility for corporate governance matters, approving 
major items of capital expenditure, senior executive 
remuneration and succession planning for top management. 
All Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the 
Group. As appropriate, the Board has delegated certain 
responsibilities to Board Committees, which operate within 
clearly defined terms of reference. Standing committees of 
the Board include the Audit Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee, with each Committee consisting 
entirely of Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by one of 
the Non-Executive Directors. The function of a Nominations 
Committee is performed by the whole Board. 
The Board met ten times for Board meetings and once for 
scheduled strategy meetings during the year to 30 
September 2012. At each regularly scheduled meeting, there 
is a full financial and business review and discussion, 
including operating performance to date against the business 
plan previously approved by the Board for that year.  
Each Board member receives monthly operating results, 
including a comprehensive commentary and analysis. The 
Board has additional meetings when circumstances and 
urgent business requires and, at all times, maintains an open 
forum for communication by telephone and email.  
The Company maintains Directors' and Officers' insurance  
of  20 million and Directors may obtain independent 
professional advice as required with the agreement  
of the Chairman. 
Prior to each Board meeting, Directors are sent an agenda 
and a set of Board papers for each agenda item to be 
discussed at the meeting. Additional information is provided 
as appropriate. Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility 
for the control of the Group, daily management is conducted 
by the Chief Executive Officer. 
Board sub committees 
The Board has three sub committees: 
Remuneration Committee 
Phil Corbishley is the chair of the Remuneration Committee 
(having replaced Bernard Bulkin as chair in December 2012). 
The Remuneration Committee, which consists exclusively of 
Non-Executive Directors, is responsible for making 
recommendations on the Group's framework of executive 
remuneration, and for determining specific remuneration 
packages for each Executive Director and oversees the 
operation of the Group's bonus plan and share option plans. 
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of Non-
Executive Directors. A full report on remuneration policy and 
details of the remuneration of each Director can be found in 
the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 10 to 
12. Audit Committee Terms of Reference may be obtained 
from the Group's website www.pdx.biz. 
The members of the Remuneration Committee as at  
31 December 2012 were Phil Corbishley, Bernard Bulkin  
and Paul Banner. 
Audit Committee  
Paul Banner took over as chair of the Audit Committee 
(having replaced Brian Sweeney as chair in December 2012). 
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group's financial reporting and internal 
control policies and risk management systems, and for 
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Group's 
auditors. The Audit Committee has a particular role to ensure 
that the interests of Shareholders are properly protected in 
relation to financial reporting and internal control. 
The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Members of the Audit Committee 
as at 31 December 2012 were Paul Banner and Phil Corbishley.  
The external auditors' lead partner and the Director of 
Finance attend each meeting as requested by the 
Committee. The Board considers that the membership of the 
Committee as a whole has recent and relevant financial 
experience to enable it to properly discharge its functions. 
The Audit Committee met four times during the year. During 
the year the members of the Committee took the 
opportunity of meeting the external auditors without 
management being present. The Audit Committee is 
responsible for reviewing on behalf of the Board the Group's 
financial and reporting practices and disclosures, reviewing 
the integrity of the financial statements, the Group's system 
of internal controls, the work of the external auditors and 
Group compliance with financial policies, laws and 
regulations. Audit Committee Terms of Reference may be 
obtained from the Group's website www.pdx.biz.  
The annual and half-yearly financial reports are reviewed by 
the Committee through a process which includes discussion 
with the Director of Finance and the external auditors. The 
Audit Committee gives its recommendation to the Board 
concerning the adoption and publication of all financial 
reports to Shareholders. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Overview Governance Accounts
 
 
7 Pursuit Dynamics PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
 
Auditor independence 
The Audit Committee keeps under review the scope  
and results of the external audit work, its cost and  
the independence and objectivity of the auditors. The 
independent auditors operate procedures to safeguard 
against the possibility that their objectivity and independence 
could be compromised. This includes the use of quality 
review partners, a technical review board (where 
appropriate) and annual independence review procedures. 
The auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner  
to the Group every five years.  
The Committee reviews and approves the award of any  
non-audit work performed by the Group's auditors. The 
Audit Committee refers to the Board for approval of any 
work comprising non-audit services where the fees for such 
work will represent a significant proportion of the annual 
audit fee. 
The Committee has considered the re-appointment  
of the auditors of the Group and recommended to  
the Board that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be proposed 
for re-appointment, having noted the scope and results  
of their work in relation to this year's audit as well as their 
objectivity and independence. 
Nominations Committee 
Bernard Bulkin is chair of the Nominations Committee. The 
Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
structure, size and composition of the Board and evaluating 
its performance, reviewing leadership and succession 
planning and identifying and recommending new candidates 
to the Board. Nominations Committee Terms of Reference 
may be obtained from the Group's website www.pdx.biz. 
The members of the Nominations Committee are the whole 
Board.  
Relations with Shareholders  
The Annual Report contains information on the activities of 
the Group for the preceding year and is made available to 
every Shareholder on the share register. The Interim Report 
is also made available to every Shareholder. Management 
endeavours to keep Shareholders informed with regular 
news releases. All regulatory news releases and reports are 
available on the Group's website www.pdx.biz. 
The Annual General Meeting (AGM ) is the principal forum 
for dialogue with Shareholders. The Directors hold meetings 
with individual Shareholders as appropriate to keep them 
updated on the Company's progress.  
Internal control and risk management 
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. Identification 
and evaluation of risks is an integral part of the Board's 
planning process.  
Controls within the Group are designed to provide the Board 
with reasonable assurance regarding the maintenance of 
proper accounting records, the reliability of financial 
information and the safeguarding of assets. 
A system to identify, assess and evaluate business risk is 
embedded within the management process throughout the 
Group. Strategic risks are reviewed regularly by the Board. 
Risks relating to the key activities within the Group are 
continuously assessed.  
The Group's internal procedures include the following: 
  a schedule of matters reserved for the Board; 
  the Board aims to meet at least 10 times a year  
to manage the affairs of the Group;  
  the Group prepares a business plan at the 
commencement of each financial year. Revised 
forecasts are prepared as required. The business plan 
and revised forecasts are reviewed and approved by  
the Board; and 
  the Board monitors actual monthly financial 
performance of the Group. 
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure with 
clear lines of responsibility. Because of the size of the 
current trading operations and the detailed accounting and 
operational information available, the Directors do not believe 
the expense of an internal audit function is justified. 
Whistleblowing policy 
The Company has a whistleblowing policy that provides for 
the reporting of any issues to the Board via a process of 
escalation through management. The policy is available to  
all employees and Directors along with the Company's other 
HR policies. 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
The Board recognises the importance of taking into account 
its corporate social responsibility in operating the business.  
In this context it seeks to integrate social, ethical, health, 
safety and environmental considerations into its day to  
day operations via a series of internal management review 
procedures and Board reviews. The Board acknowledges  
its duty to ensure the Group conducts its activities 
responsibly and with proper regard for all its stakeholders 
including Shareholders, business partners, suppliers and  
local communities. 
Attendance at Board meetings 
The number of Board meetings, held during 2011-12,  
were 11 and attendance was as follows: 
Andy Quinn 10 
Bernard Bulkin 11 
Jeremy Pelczer  11 
Brian Sweeney  11 
Richard Webster 11 
Roel Pieper  2 