 Corporate Governance
Ramco Energy plc
12
Ramco recognises the importance of, and is committed to, the highest standards of corporate governance. Ramco, as an
AIM company, is not required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, although it has applied the
majority of the Combined Code principles as follows:
Directors
The Board comprises two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of the Directors are presented
on page 8. Malcolm Hay is the senior Non-Executive Director. Prior to 9 June 2006 when Dennis Paterson retired, there
were three Non-Executive Directors. It is the intention of the Board to identify and appoint a third Non-Executive Director.
The Board is responsible for setting overall Group strategy, policy, monitoring Group performance and authorising
significant transactions.
The Board meets not less than four times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision. All
Directors have full and timely access to information and may take independent professional advice at the Group's expense. 
The Board has three standing committees with terms of reference as follows:
Audit and Remuneration Committees
These committees are comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors who take no part in the discussion of their own
remuneration. Both are chaired by Malcolm Hay and the other member is N Stewart Cumming. Dennis Paterson served as
a member of these committees until he resigned on 9 June 2006.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for providing an independent oversight of the Group's systems of internal control and
financial reporting processes. The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and the External Auditors and other
Directors may attend by invitation.
The External Auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements. They review and test the systems of
internal financial control and data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit
opinion. They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial position of the Group and
present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors. The Committee reviews the nature
and amount of non-audit work undertaken by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP each year to satisfy itself that there is no effect
on their independence. Details of this year's fees are given in note 3 on page 28. The Committee is satisfied that
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are independent.
The Group does not have an internal audit function but the need for such a function is reviewed at least annually and
management actively participates in, and encourages audits of, the Group's joint venture activities. It is the current view of the
Board that an internal audit function is not considered appropriate given the size and nature of the operations and the Group.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year and determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors and
advises the Board on incentive schemes for employees. The Remuneration Report is presented on page 15 to 17 and
contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each Director.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Malcolm Hay and meets as required. The other members are N Stewart
Cumming and Steve Remp.  Ramco Energy plc
13
The Committee proposes to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, and considers
Board succession plans. Directors appointed by the Board in the course of the year must retire and offer themselves for
reappointment at the next AGM. Names of Directors submitting themselves for reappointment at the next AGM are shown
on page 10.
Risk Management and 
Internal Control
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the
Group. Management from each business area and major project identify their risks, the likelihood of those risks occurring,
the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks to an acceptable level. This
process is reviewed by the Board annually and accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control. It has been in place
throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal financial control to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the Group's assets. Such a system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that
assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and correctly recorded, and that material errors and irregularities are
either prevented or would be detected within a timely period. The system, which has been in place throughout the year
and up to the date of this report, comprises the following main elements, all of which are reviewed by the Board:
  An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
  Appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
  Established procedures for budgeting and capital expenditure.
  Monthly reporting of actual performance compared to budget for all business units, reviewed by the Board quarterly.
  Rolling monthly forecasts for the financial year.
  The Group reports to shareholders on a half yearly basis to ensure timely reporting of financial results.
The Directors have reassessed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control with regard to the current reduced
level of activity.
Investor Relations
Communications with investors are given high priority. The Company keeps its institutional shareholders up to date with 
its business and objectives, and obtains their views on the Company, by means of periodic presentations. Additionally 
the Company is ready to respond appropriately to particular issues or questions that may be raised by investors. All
shareholders are sent the Annual Report and financial statements, the Interim Report and can also elect to receive all press
releases, many choosing to receive this information by e-mail.
The Company has a web site, www.ramco-plc.com, which is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information
about the Company including share price information, Annual Report and financial statements, and press releases. The
Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and encourages them to attend. The Board
aims to ensure that the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is available to answer questions. The
Executive Chairman gives a short presentation on the business and its trading position. Shareholders are invited to ask
questions and are given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally following the meeting. The Company complies
with best practice in ensuring that the Notice of the AGM is dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days ahead of
the meeting. Corporate Governance continued
Ramco Energy plc
14
Compliance with the Combined Code
As mentioned above, Ramco, as an AIM listed company, is not required to comply with the July 2003 Combined Code on
Corporate Governance. The Group has applied the Combined Code principles with two exceptions. The roles of Chairman
and Chief Executive were until 22 June 2005 both filled by Steve Remp. From that date Steven Bertram has been Managing
Director and Steve Remp, Chairman. Prior to the appointment of N. Stewart Cumming as a Non-Executive Director on 
17 December 2005 and from 9 June 2006, when Dennis Paterson resigned as a Non-executive Director, the Company 
had only two Non-Executive Directors. Given his long history as an employee and Executive Director of the Company, 
N Stewart Cumming, is not considered to be an independent Non-Executive Director. It is the intention of the Board to
identify and appoint a third Non-Executive Director.
Directors' Responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare the financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year, and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. 
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently. The Directors also confirm
that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2005 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Ramco Energy plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors. The work carried out by
the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Going Concern
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which assumes that the Company and its
subsidiaries will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Director's consider that it is appropriate to adopt a going concern assumption in preparing these financial statements
for the reasons outlined in note 1 to the financial statements.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for the period ending 12 months from the date of approval
of these financial statements.  These cashflows take into account the proceeds from the sale of the building and indicate
that the Group will have adequate cash resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.  For these reasons, the Directors
believe that it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on the going concern basis.
If for any reason the cash flow assumptions proved to be invalid, the going concern basis may no longer be applicable and
adjustments to the Group profit and loss account and Group balance sheet would be required to record additional
liabilities and write down assets to their recoverable amounts.