 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
for the year ended 31 December 2003
9
ASITE plc Annual Report 2003
In January 1998, the Hampel Committee published its report on Corporate Governance, which was implemented by the
London Stock Exchange as a Combined Code on 25 June 1998.  The Combined Code requires that disclosures be
made on how the fourteen principles of the Code have been applied (known as 'the appliance statement') and whether
or not the Company has complied with these principles (known as 'the compliance statement').  The Combined Code is
intended to promote the principles of openness, integrity and accountability.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice and applying the principles of good governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.  As an Alternative
Investment Market (AIM) Company, Asite is not obliged to report its compliance with the Principles of Good Governance
and Code of Best Practice published by the Committee on Corporate Governance (The Combined Code).
Nonetheless, the Company is committed to meeting these principles as far as it reasonably can and the commentary
below reflects the extent to which the Company has complied with The Combined Code during the period under review.
Board Effectiveness
The Board which is set up to control the Company and Group meets formally at least six times a year and in the year
under review met on ten occasions.  As at the year end the Board was comprised of six directors - one executive and
five non-executive directors.  Two of the five non-executive directors, namely the Chairman, Sir John Egan, and the
Deputy Chairman, Mr Walter Goldsmith, are considered by the Board to be independent. The Board considers Sir John
Egan to be the senior independent director.  Subsequent to the year end, the Board has approved the appointment of
three further executive directors.
Each Board meeting receives the latest financial and management information available, which consists of detailed 
management accounts with the relevant comparisons with budget.  A current trading appraisal is given by the Group
Chief Executive.
The Board reserves to itself a range of key decisions to ensure it retains proper direction and control of the Group, whilst
delegating authority to individual directors who are responsible for the day to day management of the business.  In 
addition, all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and can also seek 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board Appointments
In the event of a proposal to appoint a new director, this would be discussed at a full Board meeting, with each 
member being given the opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior to any formal decision being taken.  As 
permitted by the Combined Code, due to the small size of the board, it is considered inappropriate to establish a
Nomination Committee.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing responsibility for running the Board and the business by appointing Sir
John Egan as non-executive Chairman and senior independent director and Mr Thomas Dengenis as Group Chief
Executive.
Committees
The directors have delegated certain of their responsibilities to various committees, which operate within specific terms
of reference and authority limits.  The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and consists of Mr Walter Goldsmith
the Deputy Chairman, and Mr Mathew Riley.  Mr Thomas Dengenis, as Group Chief Executive, and Mr Gordon Ashworth,
as executive Finance Director, are invited to attend.  The Remuneration Committee, which consists of the Deputy
Chairman and at least two other non-executive directors, also meets at least twice a year.  Otherwise the executive 
directors meet on a regular basis of at least every four weeks and deal with decisions that do not require full Board
approval.  The directors believe that this process for making business decisions provides sufficient division of 
responsibility to meet the requirements of the Combined Code. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2003
Re-election of directors
Directors retire by rotation in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, which prescribe that at every
Annual General Meeting one third of the directors for the time being or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the
number nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.  Non-executive directors are not appointed for
specified terms, but in the case of Mr Robert Tchenguiz, Mr Peter Rogers and Mr Mathew Riley their appointment is 
terminable with no specific notice period, and in the case of Sir John Egan and Mr Walter Goldsmith their 
appointments are terminable on one months notice.
Shareholder relations
The directors meet and discuss the performance of the Group with shareholders during the year.  Queries raised by a
shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are promptly answered by whoever is best placed on the Board to so do.  When
board members are unavailable all queries will be followed up by the Company Secretary.  The Company 
maintains a web site where shareholders can obtain copies of the Company's statutory accounts.
Accountability and audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an
assessment of the Group's position and prospects.  This is achieved by the Chairman's and Group Chief Executive's
Statement, which contains a detailed consideration of the Group's financial position and prospects.
REMUNERATION REPORT
This report should be read in conjunction with Note 5 to the accounts.  The Remuneration Committee is responsible for
reviewing the level and make-up of the remuneration of executive directors.  The Committee seeks to encourage the
enhancement of the Group's performance and to ensure that remuneration packages offered are competitive and
designed to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the right calibre and to reward them for enhancing value
to shareholders.  The grant of options under the Group's Executive Share Option Schemes is regularly considered as
part of this policy.  The service contracts of executive directors provide for a performance related element of 
remuneration but as yet there is no agreed scheme of performance by reference to which such remuneration should be
calculated.  Bonuses are paid at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.  
In framing the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has given full consideration to the requirements of the
Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Components of remuneration
The components of remuneration are:
a) basic salary and benefits determined by the Remuneration Committee and reviewed annually; and 
b) performance related bonuses based upon improvements in earnings per share, profitability and 
market capitalisation of the Group.
Service contracts
The employment contracts of Mr Thomas Dengenis and Mr Brian Austin (executive directors with the company), are 
terminable by either party to the other with not less than twelve months' notice in writing. The employment contracts of
the remaining executive directors, with the company, are terminable by either party to the other with not less than three
months notice in writing.
Non-Executive directors
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board within the limits set out in the Articles of
Association.
10
ASITE plc Annual Report 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2003
11
ASITE plc Annual Report 2003
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The duties of the Audit Committee include:
a) keeping under review the scope and results of the audit;
b) assessment of the cost effectiveness of the audit;
c) monitoring the independence and objectivity of the auditors; and,
d) review and assessment of current updates of changes in accounting standards and their likely impact 
on the Group's accounts.
In considering the internal control requirement of the Combined Code, the Board has decided that at this stage in the
Group's development that the creation of an internal audit function is not warranted.  However, the Board is 
responsible for the Company's system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against misstatement or loss.  This system includes:
a) the Board, with a balance of executive and non executive directors, which has overall responsibility
for decision making across the Group
b) the preparation and approval of an annual budget in advance of each financial year and monitoring
performance against this
c) establishing clear lines of reporting, responsibility and delegation throughout the Group and 
documenting this in a clearly defined organisational chart
d) ensuring that clearly defined control procedures covering expenditure and authority levels are 
reviewed and implemented on a timely basis
GOING CONCERN
In compliance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, after making appropriate enquiries, as described in note
1 to the accounts, the directors have reasonable expectations that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.