 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
for the year ended 31 December 2005
In January 1998, the Hampel Committee published its report on Corporate Governance, which was implemented by the
London Stock Exchange as a Combined Code on 25 June 1998.  The Code on Corporate Governance was substantially
revised during 2003, following the publication of the Higgs report and the Smith report on audit committees.  The
Combined Code requires that disclosures be made on how the fourteen principles of the Code have been applied
(known as 'the appliance statement') and whether or not the Company has complied with these principles (known as
'the compliance statement').  The Combined Code is intended to promote the principles of openness, integrity and
accountability.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice and applying the principles of good governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.  As an AIM company,
Asite plc is not obliged to report its compliance with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice 
published by the Committee on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code).  Nonetheless, the Group is committed
to meeting these principles as far as it reasonably can and the commentary below reflects the extent to which the Group
has complied with the Combined Code during the period under review.
Board Effectiveness
The Board which is set up to control the Company and Group meets formally at least six times a year and in the year
under review met on seven occasions.  In addition to the main Board the Group has formed an Executive Committee
comprised of the Group's three executive directors and the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman.  This Committee has
convened more frequently than the main Board.  As at the year end the Board was comprised of eight directors - three
executive and five Non-Executive directors.  Mr Thomas Dengenis resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 11 March 2005
and Mr Gordon Ashworth took up the position of Acting Chief Executive Officer from that date and this position was made 
permanent on 21 December 2005.  Sir John Egan resigned from the Board on 22 December 2005.  Two of the five 
Non-Executive directors, namely the Chairman, Mr Colin Goodall and the Deputy Chairman, Mr Walter Goldsmith are
considered by the Board to be independent.  
Each Board meeting receives the latest financial and management information available, which consists of:
  management accounts setting out actual costs and revenues against budgeted costs and revenues;
  cash collections and forecasts;
  a statement of new contract sales compared with budget; and
  a statement of contracted pipeline.
A current trading appraisal is given by the Chief Executive Officer.  In months where there is no main Board meeting the
executive directors appraise the Executive Committee on progress against targets.
The Board reserves to itself a range of key decisions to ensure it retains proper direction and control of the Group, whilst
delegating authority to individual directors who are responsible for the day to day management of the business.  In 
addition, as noted previously, the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman meet with the executive directors on an informal
yet frequent basis to discuss progress against budget.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and can also seek independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board Appointments
All appointments to the Board are discussed at a full board meeting and each member is given the opportunity to meet
the individual concerned prior to an appointment being made.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing responsibility for running the Board and the business by appointing Mr
Colin Goodall as Non-Executive Chairman and Mr Gordon Ashworth as Chief Executive Officer.
8
ASITE plc Annual Report 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2005
9
ASITE plc Annual Report 2005
Committees
The directors have delegated certain of their responsibilities to various committees, which operate within specific terms
of reference and authority limits.  The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and consists of Mr Walter Goldsmith,
the Deputy Chairman, and Mr Mathew Riley.  Mr Gordon Ashworth, as Chief Executive Officer and also in his capacity
as Finance Director is invited to attend.
The duties of the Audit Committee include:
  review of the scope and the results of the audit;
  assessment of the cost effectiveness of the audit;
  monitoring the independence and objectivity of the auditors; and
  review and assessment of current updates of changes in accounting standards and their likely impact on the 
Group's accounts.
The Remuneration Committee, which consists of the Deputy Chairman and at least one other Non-Executive director,
also meets at least once a year.  In the year ended 31 December 2005 the Remuneration Committee met on one 
occasion.  The executive directors meet on a regular basis at least every four weeks and deal with decisions that do not
require full Board approval.  The directors believe that this process for making business decisions provides sufficient
division of responsibility to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
As permitted by the Combined Code, due to the small size of the board, it is considered inappropriate to establish a
Nomination Committee.
Re-election of directors
Directors retire by rotation in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, which prescribe that at every
Annual General Meeting one third of the directors for the time being or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the
number nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.  Non-Executive directors are not appointed for
specified terms, but in the case of Mr Robert Tchenguiz, Mr Peter Rogers and Mr Mathew Riley their appointment is 
terminable with no specific notice period, and in the case of Mr Colin Goodall and Mr Walter Goldsmith their 
appointments are terminable on one month's notice.
Shareholder relations
The Company maintains a web site (www.asite.com) where the Group's statutory accounts can be accessed.  The 
following information can also be found here:
  copies of regulatory announcements;
  announcements made to relevant industry media;
  directors' biographies; and
  information relating to the Group's products.
All queries raised by shareholders are dealt with by the Company Secretary, Mr Gordon Ashworth.  Otherwise the 
directors meet and discuss the performance of the Group with shareholders during the year.
Accountability and audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an
assessment of the Group's position and prospects, and in particular the Chairman's Statement, which contains a
detailed consideration of the Group's financial position and prospects. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2005
REMUNERATION REPORT
This report should be read in conjunction with Note 5 to these accounts.  The Remuneration Committee is responsible
for reviewing the level and make-up of the remuneration of executive directors.  In doing so the Committee's aims are:
  to ensure that remuneration packages are sufficient to attract and retain executive directors of the requisite 
calibre;
  to ensure that the targets of the Group and its executive directors are aligned;
  to ensure that the remuneration policies adopted by the Group give full consideration to the requirements of the 
Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority;
  to consider, and if thought fit, grant options to executive directors and staff under the Group's Executive Option 
Scheme; and
  where applicable, to assess targets that should be used in the fixing of performance related pay for executive 
directors.  Such bonuses are paid at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and for the year ending 31 
December 2005 no such bonus was recommended or paid.
Components of remuneration
The components of remuneration are:
  basic salary and benefits determined by the Remuneration Committee and reviewed annually; 
  performance related bonuses based upon improvements in earnings per share, profitability and market 
capitalisation of the Group; and
  options granted under the Group's Executive Option Scheme by the Remuneration Committee.
Service contracts
The employment contracts of Mr Gordon Ashworth, Mr Nathan Doughty and Mr Tony Ryan (executive directors with the
Company), are terminable by either party to the other with not less than six months' notice in writing.
Non-Executive directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive directors is determined by the Board within the limits set out in the Articles of
Association.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has decided that at this stage in the Group's development that the creation of an internal audit function is not
warranted.  In reaching this decision the Board has had regard to the controls that have been created and 
implemented across the Group.  These are
  the establishment of a Board with an appropriate balance of executive and Non-Executive directors, which has 
overall responsibility for decision making across the Group;
  the preparation and approval of an annual budget in advance of each financial year and monitoring 
performance against this at an appropriate level of detail with appropriate timeliness;
  establishing clear lines of reporting, responsibility and delegation throughout the Group and documenting this 
in a clearly defined organisational chart;
  ensuring that clearly defined control procedures covering expenditure and authority levels are reviewed and 
implemented on a timely basis.  In particular the Group requires that all expenditure is authorised prior to 
ordering by at least one executive director and that all financial payments are made under dual signature; and
  the Group has undertaken a risk assessment of its activities and monitors the risks identified on a routine basis.
10
ASITE plc Annual Report 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2005
11
ASITE plc Annual Report 2005
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The Group acquits itself of its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility though the implementation of policies
across the following areas:
  equal opportunities across the Group;
  health and safety; and 
  best practice in Human Resources.
GOING CONCERN
The directors, after making appropriate enquiries, as described in note 1 to the accounts, have reasonable expectations
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.