 The Combined Code on Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (the Combined Code ) which sets out the Principles of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice. 
Statement of compliance 
The Company has been in compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
except as set out below and where applicable in the Directors' Remuneration Report. 
Statement of application
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with
the Code of Best Practice as reported above. Further explanation of how the Principles of Good Governance have been
applied is set out below and, in connection with directors' remuneration, in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
The Board
The Board of directors meets at regular intervals during the year. The roles of Chairman and Managing Director were split during
the year between, respectively, John Porter and Kevin Neal. John Porter resigned as Chairman in March 2003 and has yet to
be replaced. Kevin Neal stepped down as Managing Director in September 2002 and was replaced by Michael Tobin as Chief
Executive Officer in March 2003. The composition of the Board varied during the year with a maximum of 4 and a minimum of
3 executive directors and a maximum of 6 and minimum of 2 non-executive directors. The Board presently comprises 2
executive directors and 3 non-executive directors. At least 2 of the non-executive directors who served during the year and all
those who serve currently are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from material conflicts of
interest that could affect their judgement. The Board has reached this conclusion notwithstanding that a company controlled
by Bo Bendtsen is a customer and that Bo Bendtsen has a significant share interest in the Company, Oliver Grace having a
significant share interest in the Company and that a company controlled by Paul Dumond provides company secretarial services
and other services to the Company. The Board believes that it has had and continues to have an appropriate balance between
executive and independent non-executive directors. 
James Morton was the senior independent non-executive director until his resignation in May 2002. Contrary to provision
A.2.1 there has been no senior independent non-executive since then, although the Board intends to make an appointment
in due course.
Although contrary to provision A.1.6 there is no formal training procedure for newly appointed directors, such persons have
direct access to the Company Secretary and to the Company's professional advisers at the expense of the Company who are
able to advise on the necessary requirements for a member of the Board of a listed company. 
Information, including that of an operating and financial nature, is supplied to the Board in a timely and appropriate fashion.
Appointments to the Board are dealt with by the Board as a whole and, accordingly, there is no nominations committee in
contrast to the requirements of provision A.5.1. The Combined Code requires that the non-executive directors serve for set
terms and that all directors seek appointment every three years. Under the Company's articles of association one third of the
directors retire every year and no director may serve for more than three years without being re-elected by the shareholders.
The Company believes that this approach is sufficiently in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders
The directors seek to build a mutual understanding of the objectives of the Company with its institutional shareholders by
making regular presentations to them to discuss long-term issues and obtain feedback. The Board actively encourages private
investors to attend the annual general meeting and to raise questions regarding strategy and performance. 
Accountability and audit 
Balanced and understandable assessment of financial position and prospects
The Board has shown its commitment to presenting balanced and understandable assessments of the Company's financial
position and prospects by the inclusion of additional, non-mandatory operating and financial information in the Chief
Executive's Report and the Financial Review included in the annual report and in the preliminary announcements of annual
and interim results.
Corporate governance
redbus interhouse plc 9 10 www.interhouse.redbus.com
Audit committee
The function of the audit committee is to oversee the arrangements for financial reporting and the application of suitable financial
internal controls and procedures and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the auditors. Until May 2002, membership of
the audit committee comprised Paul Dumond, Tony Simkin and James Morton. In May 2002 and June 2002, respectively, James
Morton and Tony Simkin resigned from the Board and in June 2002 Bo Bendtsen became a member after his appointment to
the Board. Accordingly, since June 2002 and contrary to provision D.3.1 there has only been 2 members of the audit committee
compared with the requirement of at least 3 members. The Board intends to appoint an additional member in due course.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
the risk of failure to achieve the Company's business objectives or risk of loss or material misstatement of the financial results.
The responsibility for implementing and reviewing systems of internal control has been entrusted to the executive directors and
senior management. The review of the effectiveness of such systems is a continuous process and covers all controls, including
financial and operational controls and risk management.
Going concern
During the year the Group incurred an EBITDA loss of  10.5 million and a loss for the financial year of  19.1 million. Financial
forecasts have been prepared covering the next 12 months that show the Group will meet its liabilities during that period.
These forecasts assume that the Nashville property will be sold during 2003. A conditional agreement exists to sell the
property for  2.9 million, although until certain conditions have been satisfied neither the Group nor the purchaser are bound
to proceed. Failing the conditional agreement being completed, the directors consider that during 2003 an alternative sale can
be agreed or that a borrowing facility can be raised of a sufficient amount secured against the property. Accordingly, the
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future, that is for the next 12 months from the date of the accounts. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. Please also refer to the basis of preparation note in
these results
Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Group's financial instruments comprise cash, cash deposits and short term debtors and creditors that arise as a result of
normal operations. The Company does not enter into derivatives transactions and does not trade in financial instruments. As the
Group has cash and no borrowings other than minimal obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, the interest
rate risk and liquidity risk are not significant. Surplus cash is placed on deposit or in the money market to earn interest income.
The Company's reporting currency is in sterling and, as a large part of the Group's operations are located in continental
Europe, there are foreign exchange risks arising from the potential changes in the rate of exchange between sterling and the
euro. These risks arise in two ways. Firstly, there is exposure to translation losses arising on consolidation of the results of
European operations. Secondly, there is the risk of exchange losses in the Company's accounts on euro denominated
intercompany loans to its subsidiaries. The Group's policy is not to hedge against foreign currency exposure. 
Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those accounts, the
directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
  prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate governance