 20
REDCENTRIC PLC 
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
As an AIM listed company Redcentric 
plc is not required to comply with the 
principles and provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published 
by the Financial Reporting Council 
in September 2012, however the 
Board of Redcentric plc is committed 
to the principles of good corporate 
governance.
The Board of Directors 
At the financial period end the Board 
comprised the non-executive Chairman, 
Richard Ramsay, the Chief Executive, 
T ony Weaver, the Chief Financial 
Officer, Tim Coleman, Chief Operating 
Officer, Fraser Fisher, and non-executive 
Directors David Payne and Ian Smith.
The business and management of the 
Company and its subsidiaries are the 
collective responsibility of the Board. 
At each meeting, the Board considers 
and reviews the trading performance 
of the business. The Board has a formal 
written schedule of matters reserved for 
its review and approval. These include 
the approval of the annual budget, 
major capital expenditure, investment 
proposals, the interim and annual results, 
and a review of the overall system of 
internal control and risk management.
There are 3 standing Board Committees: 
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration. 
Each of these Committees acts within 
defined terms of reference. Additional 
information is set out later in this report 
and also in the Directors' Remuneration 
Report in respect of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Authority for the execution of the 
approved policies, business plan 
and daily running of the business is 
delegated to the executive Directors. 
During the period covered by this 
report, the Board met formally on 12 
occasions with full attendance.
David Payne is the Senior Independent 
non-executive Director and served 
throughout the period in this position.
The Company's Articles of Association 
require that Directors appointed by 
the Board during the year must seek 
re-appointment at the next Annual 
General Meeting. As Redcentric plc is 
a newly formed company, the Board 
will retire and offer themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary 
who is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures and applicable rules 
and regulations are observed. The 
Board has a procedure whereby any 
Director may seek, through the office of 
the Company Secretary, independent 
professional advice, at the Company's 
expense, in furtherance of his duties.
Formal agendas and reports are 
provided to the Board on a timely basis 
for Board and Committee meetings and 
the Chairman ensures that all Directors 
are properly briefed on issues to be 
discussed at Board meetings. Directors 
are able to obtain further advice or seek 
clarity on issues raised at the meetings 
from within the Company or from 
external sources.
All Directors are subject to appraisal by 
the Board. The non-executive Directors 
are responsible for the evaluation of 
the Chairman.
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee consists 
of David Payne (Chairman) and 
Richard Ramsay.
For nominations, the Committee meets 
as and when necessary to consider the 
appointment of new executive and non-
executive Directors.
A process is in place for the 
appointment of new Directors involving, 
if felt appropriate, the use of external 
consultants followed by meetings with 
both the Committee and subsequently 
with the Board as a whole. This ensures 
that the selection process is both formal 
and objective. The Committee has 
formal terms of reference (available on 
request from the Company Secretary) 
and meets at least once a year to review 
succession planning at both Board and 
senior management level across the 
Group.
During the period, the Committee met 
formally on two occasions and there 
were no absences from the meetings.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee consists 
of David Payne (Chairman) and Richard 
Ramsay.
Details of the Committee and its 
policies are set out in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 
25. The Committee has formal terms of 
reference (available on request from the 
Company Secretary).
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  21
REDCENTRIC PLC 
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
During the period, the Committee met 
formally on 5 occasions. There were no 
absences from the formal meetings.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee consists of 
Richard Ramsay (Chairman) and 
David Payne.
The Committee has formal terms of 
reference (available on request from 
the Company Secretary). These include 
the recommendation of, appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditors, the review of the 
scope and results of the interim 
review and external annual audit by 
the auditors, their cost effectiveness, 
independence and objectivity. The 
Committee also reviews the nature 
and extent of any non-audit services 
provided by the external auditors. 
In addition, the Committee reviews 
the effectiveness of internal controls, 
considers the need for an internal 
audit function and considers any major 
accounting issues and reports on such 
matters to the Board. The Committee 
reviews the integrity of the financial 
statements and formal announcements. 
A whistle-blowing arrangement exists 
whereby matters can be confidentially 
reported to the Committee. The 
executive Directors are not members of 
the Committee but attend the meetings 
by invitation, as necessary, to facilitate 
its business.
The Chief Financial Officer monitors the 
level and nature of non-audit services 
and specific assignments are flagged 
for approval by the Audit Committee 
as appropriate. The Audit Committee 
reviews non-audit fees and considers 
implications for the objectivity and 
independence of the relationship with 
the external auditors.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee has recent and 
relevant financial experience necessary 
to meet the requirements of the 
Combined Code.
The Committee met on two occasions 
during the period and there were no 
absences from the meetings.
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group's system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The implementation and maintenance 
of the risk management and internal 
control systems are the responsibility 
of the executive Directors and senior 
management. The internal control 
system is designed to manage risk 
rather than eliminate it and can 
therefore only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In accordance 
with the guidance set out in the Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control, the 
Group has an on-going process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by it. 
The Group is committed to maintaining 
high standards of business conduct 
and operates under an established 
internal control framework covering 
financial, operational and compliance 
controls. This is achieved through 
an organisational structure that has 
clear reporting lines and delegated 
authorities. The reporting lines and 
delegated authorities are clearly 
defined. The management and 
monitoring of risk and performance 
occurs at multiple levels throughout 
the Group. In addition, the Group 
maintains written processes to control 
expenditure, authorisation limits, 
purchase ordering, sales order intake, 
project management, inventories 
and assets.
The Board receives monthly financial 
information which includes key 
performance and risk indicators and the 
Chief Executive, the Chief Operating 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer 
report on significant changes in the 
business and the external marketplace 
to the extent they represent significant 
risk. There is an established budgetary 
system with an annual budget approved 
by the Board. The Board reviews 
the results monthly against budget, 
forecasts and prior year actual figures 
together with other business measures.
The principal treasury related risks 
are documented and approved by 
the Board. Details of derivatives and 
financial instruments are set out in notes 
18 and 19 to the financial statements. 22
REDCENTRIC PLC 
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
Relations with shareholders 
and investors 
Copies of the Annual Report and 
Accounts are issued to all shareholders 
who have requested them and copies 
are available on the Group's website 
www.redcentricplc.com. The Half Year 
Report is also available on the Group's 
website. The Group makes full use 
of its website to provide information 
to shareholders and other interested 
parties. The Company Secretary also 
deals with a number of written or 
e-mailed enquiries throughout the year.
Shareholders are given the opportunity 
to raise questions at the Annual General 
Meeting and the Directors are available 
both prior to and after the meeting for 
further discussion with shareholders.
During the year, the Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer and the Chief 
Operating Officer met with institutional 
investors after the announcement of 
the interim results. Additional meetings 
were arranged during the period by the 
Group's brokers, N+1 Singer Capital 
Markets Limited and finnCap Limited. 
Feedback arising from these meetings 
was communicated to the Board and 
the Company Secretary also reports 
to the Board if there is feedback from 
other shareholders.
 
 
David Payne, as Senior Independent 
non-executive Director, is available to 
shareholders if they wish to raise any 
matters that contact through the normal 
channels of non-executive Chairman, 
Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer 
or Company Secretary has failed to 
resolve or for which such contact is 
inappropriate.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED