 The Audit Committee's principal responsibilities lie in reviewing the
Group's financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and work
of the external Auditors and reviewing Redrow's internal control
processes. The terms of reference of the Committee, which are in
compliance with the Combined Code, are kept under review. The
terms of reference are available at redrowplc.co.uk
All the members of the Committee are independent and the Board
believes the Committee has the appropriate level of expertise to
fulfil its terms of reference. 
The Committee held four meetings during the financial year ended
June 2011 and holds further meetings as appropriate. The Group
Finance Director was invited and attended each meeting as did the
external Auditors. On each occasion the Committee had the
opportunity to meet the external Auditors without any Executive
Director being present.
The Committee receives regular updates on changes to accounting
standards and best practice in financial reporting and corporate
governance. The Committee invites other individuals to attend the
meetings to provide technical support and advice as appropriate. In
addition, individual members are encouraged to attend external
seminars and courses on areas relevant to their membership of the
Committee.
The Committee addressed a wide variety of issues in its meetings,
including:
Month Principal Activities
September 2010
n
A review of the full year 2009/10 results
including the Annual Report and Accounts;
n
Consideration of the Group risk
assessment process and a going concern
review; and 
n
A review of the effectiveness and structure
of Business Performance review.
November 2010
n
New external Audit Partner handover; 
n
Reviews of the results of the 2009/10
external audit; 
n
Review of the 2010/11 external audit plan
and associated fees; 
n
A review of the effectiveness of the
external audit process; 
n
A review of the independence and
objectivity of the external Auditors; 
n
A review of Business Performance review
programmes of work; and 
n
Review of the Committee's effectiveness.
February 2011  
n
A review of the 2010/11 half-yearly
accounts; 
n
A review of the effectiveness of the
Disaster Recovery process; and 
n
A review of the Terms of Reference of the
Committee.
June 2011    
n
A review of the appropriateness of the
Group's accounting policies; 
n
A review of the impact of the Bribery Act
and the related internal controls; 
n
A review of the Group's Whistleblowing
policy; and 
n
A review of internal controls across the
whole business.
September 2011
n
A review of the full year 2010/11 results
including the Annual Report and Accounts;
and 
n
Consideration of the Group risk
assessment process and a going concern
review.
The Group has a widely publicised whistleblowing policy which
enables employees and other stakeholders e.g subcontractors, to
raise concerns in confidence. The Committee has arranged to receive
reports on all occasions when such issues are raised under this
policy. 
Directors & Board reports
44
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Audit Committee report
Current Members of the Audit Committee
n
Paul Hampden Smith, Chairman of the Audit Committee
(pictured)
n
Alan Jackson
n
Debbie Hewitt 45
Directors & Board reports
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Audit Independence
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC ) were appointed Auditors in
2003 having succeeded PricewaterhouseCoopers who were
appointed in 1987. Following the expiry of the tenure of the
previous external Audit Partner the Committee undertook a review
and consequently approved the appointment of the new Audit
Partner from PwC who commenced his tenure following the
conclusion of the 30 June 2010 audit.
The Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work of the
external Auditors. The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the
Auditor's objectivity and independence is maintained by ensuring
both that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken and the
level of fees paid does not compromise the Auditor's position.
Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the prior
approval of the Committee within an established budget. In
addition, no work can be undertaken by the external Auditors in any
area where there is any identifiable risk that the work of an
individual within the external audit firm or the external audit firm
generally could conflict or compromise the quality, objectivity or
independence of any audit or compliance work undertaken for the
Group.
The main non-audit work undertaken on an ongoing basis relates to
information provided to the Company by PwC in their capacity as
Scheme Actuary of the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme. The Company
has a separate actuary to provide it with advice on pension matters. 
The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Company nor has
the Company purchased liability insurance for them.
Internal Controls
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the
Group's system of internal control and for monitoring its
The key features of the Group's internal controls are as follows:
n
Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as
land purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and staff
recruitment;
n
A comprehensive prioritised risk register which is regularly
reviewed;
n
The Group's management information systems provide
weekly updates on key statistics and information in respect
of sales and production and the content of these weekly
reports is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains
appropriate;
n
Redrow has an in-house health and safety department and
places great emphasis on the importance of health and
safety and environmental management. The department
works closely with the operating companies to ensure that
training is provided to employees and subcontractors, best
practice is shared and appropriate actions are taken to
comply with heath and safety best practice and legislation
throughout the organisation;
n
The Board requires each Director in its operating Divisions
to complete an annual statement on Corporate
Governance and related party transactions. The statement
is designed to provide assurance that Group policies and
procedures are being implemented and complied with in all
material respects. In addition, key functional Directors
complete a Principal Controls Self Assessment
Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board to assist in
improvements in the control framework;
n
A weekly business report (WBR) comprising sales funnel
information, gross margins and order book is produced for
the Group, each Division and each site and circulated
across the Group;
n
A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and
reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and subsidiary
board meetings. Annual budgets are set, with actual
performance compared against the annual budget;
n
The financial reporting process includes control and
reconciliation processes which ensures there is an audit
trail between the Group's underlying financial reporting
systems and the Group's financial statements;
n
Preparation and regular updates of Strategic Plans;
n
A policy and procedures manual which covers all the
significant aspects of the Group's operations and describes
the systems and controls that are to be applied; and
n
Daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying
significant payments are prepared, 13 week rolling
cashflow forecasts are prepared and forecast banking
covenant compliance is tested.
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Directors & Board reports
46
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
effectiveness. There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing significant risks. However, in reviewing the
effectiveness of internal control, such systems can only provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Key business activities including finance, land acquisition, product
design, procurement and information technology are controlled by
the Executive Directors. All activity is organised within a defined
structure with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority
levels and a structured reporting framework.
A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow. The
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and functional heads of
department meet monthly to discuss the Group's key issues, risks
and opportunities. The operating companies hold monthly board
meetings which are attended on a rotational basis by the Executive
Directors.
The Group formally reviews its prioritised risk register. In addition,
the Executive Board, through its regular meetings, reviews key areas
of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal
controls identified in relation to those risks remain appropriate.
Insurance
The Board has appointed an experienced broker to advise on and 
co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group and they liaise
closely with appropriate Redrow personnel at Head Office and
within the subsidiaries and report directly to the Group Finance
Director.
Risk Management and Business Process Reviews
At the beginning of the year a thorough review of the risk register
commenced, creating a register which defined controls as prevent or
detect, identifying owners of each high level risk and reviewing and
updating each of the risks listed to ensure they were relevant and
accurate. The register is regularly maintained and is reviewed by the
Committee annually.   
At the end of financial year 2010, the Group had made the decision
to bring the internal audit work back in house from the 1st July
2010. A risk based programme was design based on the risk register.
The Business Process Review programme looks to provide assurance
to the Group, by testing internal controls and reviewing specific
risks, as well as seeking out best practice and sharing it across the
Group and identifying business process improvements. Committee
Members receive an Executive Summary of each Business Process
Review report.
The Business Process Review strategy is discussed and agreed with
the Committee and PwC. Suggested control improvements and any
control weaknesses identified are followed up as appropriate.
T+3 Reporting
During the year the Group changed its business processes for
internal reporting to ensure management information is available
sooner. The timetable for the preparation of the management
accounts reduced to 3 days post month end, this required a number
of business process changes across a variety of functions within the
Group and system enhancements. Results are then subject to
appropriate review.
Paul Hampden Smith
Chairman of the Audit Committee
7 September 2011