 18
Redstone plc
Corporate Governance Statement
 Annual Report 2009
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance 
As an AIM listed Company Redstone plc is not required to comply with the principles and provisions of the 2006 Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance ( the Combined Code') however the Board of Redstone plc is committed to the principles of good 
corporate governance. 
The Board of Directors 
At the fi nancial year end the Board comprised the Chairman (Alan Coppin), the Chief Executive Offi cer (Martin Balaam), the Chief Financial 
Offi cer (Tim Perks) and 2 independent non-executive Directors (David Payne and Tim Sherwood). 
Gerard Spencer resigned from the Board on 10 June 2008.
Subsequent to the year end Martin Balaam resigned on 28 April 2009. His key responsibilities were fulfi lled by Alan Coppin as Interim 
Executive Chairman and Tim Sherwood as Managing Director of the Telecom division until its disposal in August 2009. Alan Coppin will 
resign on the date of signing of this Annual Report and Stephen Yapp was appointed as a non-executive Director on 17 September 2009. 
A biography of each Director is set out on page 16. 
The business and management of the Company and its subsidiaries are the collective responsibility of the Board. At each meeting, the Board 
considers and reviews the trading performance of each of the major products and services. The Board has a formal written schedule of matters 
reserved for its review and approval. These include the approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure, investment proposals, 
the interim and annual results, and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management. 
There are 3 standing Board Committees: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration. Each of these Committees acts within defi ned 
terms of reference. Additional information is set out later in this report and also in the Directors' Remuneration Report in respect of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Authority for the execution of the approved policies, business plan and daily running of the business is delegated to the executive Directors.
During the year, the Board met formally on 11 occasions with full attendance and in addition, 3 times on a quorate basis. There were no 
absences from any of the formal meetings with the exception of, Gerard Spencer in May 2008, Tim Sherwood in November 2008 and 
David Payne in January 2009. There was a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman who is responsible for the running of the 
Board and the Chief Executive who had responsibility for the running of the business. 
David Payne is the Senior Independent non-executive Director and served throughout the year in this position. 
The Company's Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors to stand for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting 
and that each Director should seek re-election every 3 years. In addition, Directors appointed by the Board during the year must seek 
re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, Tim Sherwood and David Payne will retire and offer themselves for re-election 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and 
applicable rules and regulations are observed. The Board has a procedure whereby any Director may seek, through the offi ce of the Company 
Secretary, independent professional advice, at the Company's expense, in furtherance of his duties. 
Formal agendas and reports are provided to the Board on a timely basis for Board and Committee meetings and the Chairman ensures that all 
Directors are properly briefed on issues to be discussed at Board meetings. Directors are able to obtain further advice or seek clarity on issues 
raised at the meetings from within the Company or from external sources. 
All Directors are subject to appraisal by the Board. A formal system for the evaluation of Board members, as both Board members and where 
appropriate, as Committee members, has been introduced. The non-executive Directors are responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.  19
Redstone plc
 Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Corporate Governance Statement
 Annual Report 2009
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee consists of Alan Coppin (Chairman), David Payne and Tim Sherwood. 
There were no changes in the membership of the Committee during the year under review.
For nominations, the Committee meets as and when necessary to consider the appointment of new executive and non-executive Directors. 
A process is in place for the appointment of new Directors involving the use of external consultants followed by meetings with both the 
Committee and subsequently with the Board as a whole, together with the Company Secretary. This ensures that the selection process is 
both formal and objective. The Committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary) and meets 
at least once a year to review succession planning at both Board and senior management level across the Group. 
During the year, the Committee met formally on 2 occasions and there were no absences from the meetings.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee consists of David Payne (Chairman), Alan Coppin and Tim Sherwood. 
There were no changes in the membership of the Committee during the year under review.
Details of the Committee and its policies are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 23. The Committee has formal terms 
of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary). 
During the year, the Committee met formally on 3 occasions and additionally once on a quorate basis. There were no absences from the 
formal meetings.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee consists of Tim Sherwood (Chairman), Alan Coppin and David Payne. 
There were no changes in the membership of the Committee during the year under review.
The Committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary). These include the recommendation of the 
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, the review of the scope and results of the interim review and external annual 
audit by the auditors, their cost effectiveness and independence and objectivity. The Committee also reviews the nature and extent of any 
non-audit services provided by the external auditors. In addition, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, considers the need 
for an internal audit function and considers any major accounting issues and reports on such matters to the Board. The Committee reviews the 
integrity of the fi nancial statements and formal announcements. A whistle-blowing arrangement exists whereby matters can be confi dentially 
reported to the Committee. The executive Directors are not members of the Committee but attend the meetings by invitation, as necessary, 
to facilitate its business. 
The Chief Financial Offi cer monitors the level and nature of non-audit services and specifi c assignments are fl agged for approval by the Audit 
Committee as appropriate. The Audit Committee reviews non-audit fees and considers implications for the objectivity and independence of the 
relationship with the external auditors. 
The Board is satisfi ed that the Chairman of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant fi nancial experience necessary to meet the 
requirements of the Combined Code.
The Committee met twice during the year and there were no absences from the meetings.  20
Redstone plc
Corporate Governance Statement
 Annual Report 2009
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The implementation and 
maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive Directors and senior management. 
The internal control system is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material mis-statement or loss. 
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by it. This process was in place during the year under review and remained in place 
on the date that the Annual Report and Accounts were approved by the Board. Accordingly, the Board is satisfi ed with the process in place 
for risk identifi cation and management and that the reporting lines have been in place throughout the year under review. 
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of business conduct and operates under an established internal control framework 
covering fi nancial, operational and compliance controls. This is achieved through an organisational structure that has clear reporting lines 
and delegated authorities. Whilst the organisational structure was changed during the year, the reporting lines and delegated authorities 
were clearly redefi ned. The management and monitoring of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the Group. In addition, 
the Group maintains written processes to control expenditure, authorisation limits, purchase ordering, sales order intake, project management, 
inventories and assets. 
The Board receives monthly fi nancial information which includes key performance and risk indicators and the Chief Executive reports on 
signifi cant changes in the business and the external marketplace to the extent they represent signifi cant risk. There is an established budgetary 
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The Board reviews the results monthly against budget, forecasts and prior year actuals 
together with other business measures. 
The principal treasury related risks are documented and approved by the Board. Details of derivatives and fi nancial instruments are set out in 
note 24 to the fi nancial statements. 
Relations with shareholders and investors 
Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Statement are issued to all shareholders and copies are available on the Company's 
website: www.redstone.co.uk. The Group makes full use of its website to provide information to shareholders and other interested parties. 
The Company Secretary also deals with a number of written or e-mailed enquiries throughout the year. 
Shareholders are given the opportunity to raise questions at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors are available both prior to and after 
the meeting for further discussion with shareholders. 
During the year, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Offi cer met with institutional investors and analysts after the announcement of the 
interim and year end results. Additional meetings were arranged during the year by the Company's brokers, FinnCap and previously Investec 
Bank (UK) Limited, and the Company's fi nancial PR advisers, ICIS Limited. Feedback arising from these meetings was communicated to the 
Board and the Company Secretary also reported to the Board on feedback from shareholders. 
David Payne, as Senior Independent non-executive Director, is available to shareholders if they wish to raise any matters that contact through the 
normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Offi cer or Company Secretary has failed to resolve or for which such contact 
is inappropriate. 