 14 Redstone plc Annual Report 2010
Corporate Governance 
As an AIM listed Company Redstone plc is not required to comply with the principles and provisions of the 2008 Combined Code  
on Corporate Governance ( the Combined Code') however the Board of Redstone plc is committed to the principles of good corporate 
governance. 
The Board of Directors 
At the financial year end the Board comprised the Executive Chairman (Stephen Yapp), the Chief Financial Officer (Peter Hallett) and  
2 non-executive Directors (David Payne and Tim Sherwood).
Tim Perks resigned from the Board on 12 October 2009 and Peter Hallett was appointed on 13 October 2009. 
Martin Balaam resigned on 28 April 2009. His key responsibilities were fulfilled by Alan Coppin as Interim Executive Chairman and  
Tim Sherwood as Managing Director of the Telecom division until its disposal in August 2009. Tim Sherwood took an active role in the 
management of the i4e division from January 2010 until a Managing Director was employed in April 2010. Alan Coppin resigned  
on 30 September 2009 and Stephen Yapp was appointed as the Executive Chairman on 30 September 2009. 
Subsequent to the year end on 2 August 2010, Ian Smith and Tony Weaver were appointed non-executive Directors. On 8 September 
2010 Stephen Yapp resigned from the Board and Ian Smith was appointed the Executive Chairman and Tony Weaver the  
Chief Executive Officer. 
A biography of each Director is set out on page 13. 
The business and management of the Company and its subsidiaries are the collective responsibility of the Board. At each meeting, the Board 
considers and reviews the trading performance of each of the trading divisions. The Board has a formal written schedule of matters reserved 
for its review and approval. These include the approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure, investment proposals, the interim 
and annual results, and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management. 
There are 3 standing Board Committees: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration. Each of these Committees acts within defined terms  
of reference. Additional information is set out later in this report and also in the Directors' Remuneration Report in respect of the  
Remuneration Committee. 
Authority for the execution of the approved policies, business plan and daily running of the business is delegated to the executive Directors. 
During the year, the Board met formally on 9 occasions with full attendance and in addition, 20 times on a quorate basis. There were no 
absences from any of the formal meetings. 
David Payne is the Senior Independent non-executive Director and served throughout the year in this position. 
The Company's Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors to stand for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting  
and that each Director should seek re-election every 3 years. In addition, Directors appointed by the Board during the year must seek 
re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, Ian Smith, Tony Weaver and Peter Hallett will retire and offer themselves 
for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and 
applicable rules and regulations are observed. The Board has a procedure whereby any Director may seek, through the office of the 
Company Secretary, independent professional advice, at the Company's expense, in furtherance of his duties. 
Formal agendas and reports are provided to the Board on a timely basis for Board and Committee meetings and the Chairman ensures that 
all Directors are properly briefed on issues to be discussed at Board meetings. Directors are able to obtain further advice or seek clarity on 
issues raised at the meetings from within the Company or from external sources. 
All Directors are subject to appraisal by the Board. A formal system for the evaluation of Board members, as both Board members  
and where appropriate, as Committee members, has been introduced. The non-executive Directors are responsible for the evaluation  
of the Chairman.
 
Corporate Governance Statement 15 Redstone plc Annual Report 2010
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of David Payne (Chairman) and Tim Sherwood. 
There were no changes in the membership of the Committee during the year under review. 
For nominations, the Committee meets as and when necessary to consider the appointment of new executive and non-executive Directors.  
A process is in place for the appointment of new Directors involving the use of external consultants followed by meetings with both the 
Committee and subsequently with the Board as a whole, together with the Company Secretary. This ensures that the selection process is  
both formal and objective. The Committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary) and meets at 
least once a year to review succession planning at both Board and senior management level across the Group. 
During the year, the Committee met formally on 2 occasions and there were no absences from the meeting. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of David Payne (Chairman) and Tim Sherwood. 
Alan Coppin resigned as a member of the Committee on 30 September 2009. 
Details of the Committee and its policies are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 19. The Committee has formal 
terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary). 
During the year, the Committee met formally on 2 occasions and additionally once on a quorate basis. There were no absences from the 
formal meetings. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee consists of Tim Sherwood (Chairman) and David Payne.
Alan Coppin resigned as a member of the Committee on 30 September 2009. 
The Committee has formal terms of reference (available on request from the Company Secretary). These include the recommendation of, 
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, the review of the scope and results of the interim review and external 
annual audit by the auditors, their cost effectiveness and independence and objectivity. The Committee also reviews the nature and extent  
of any non-audit services provided by the external auditors. In addition, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, considers 
the need for an internal audit function and considers any major accounting issues and reports on such matters to the Board. The Committee 
reviews the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements. A whistle-blowing arrangement exists whereby matters can be 
confidentially reported to the Committee. The executive Directors are not members of the Committee but attend the meetings by invitation,  
as necessary, to facilitate its business. 
The Chief Financial Officer monitors the level and nature of non-audit services and specific assignments are flagged for approval by  
the Audit Committee as appropriate. The Audit Committee reviews non-audit fees and considers implications for the objectivity and 
independence of the relationship with the external auditors. 
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience necessary to meet the 
requirements of the Combined Code. 
The Committee met on 3 occasions during the year and there were no absences from the meetings.  16 Redstone plc Annual Report 2010
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The implementation and 
maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive Directors and senior management. 
The internal control system is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the 
Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by it. This process was in place during 
the year under review and remained in place on the date that the Annual Report and Accounts were approved by the Board. Accordingly, 
the Board is satisfied with the process in place for risk identification and management and that the reporting lines have been in place 
throughout the year under review 
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of business conduct and operates under an established internal control framework 
covering financial, operational and compliance controls. This is achieved through an organisational structure that has clear reporting lines 
and delegated authorities. Whilst the organisational structure was changed during the year, the reporting lines and delegated authorities 
were clearly redefined. The management and monitoring of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the Group. In addition, 
the Group maintains written processes to control expenditure, authorisation limits, purchase ordering, sales order intake, project management, 
inventories and assets. 
The Board receives monthly financial information which includes key performance and risk indicators and the Chief Executive reports on 
significant changes in the business and the external marketplace to the extent they represent significant risk. There is an established budgetary 
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The Board reviews the results monthly against budget, forecasts and prior year 
actuals together with other business measures. 
The principal treasury related risks are documented and approved by the Board. Details of derivatives and financial instruments are set out in 
note 22 to the financial statements. 
Relations with shareholders and investors 
Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half Year Report are issued to all shareholders and copies are available on the Group's 
website www.redstone.co.uk. The Group makes full use of its website to provide information to shareholders and other interested parties. 
The Company Secretary also deals with a number of written or e-mailed enquiries throughout the year. 
Shareholders are given the opportunity to raise questions at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors are available both prior to and 
after the meeting for further discussion with shareholders. 
During the year, the Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer met with institutional investors after the announcement of the interim 
and year end results. Additional meetings were arranged during the year by the Group's brokers, FinnCap and previously Investec Bank (UK) 
Limited, and the Group's financial PR advisers, ICIS Limited. Feedback arising from these meetings was communicated to the Board and the 
Company Secretary also reported to the Board on feedback from shareholders. 
David Payne, as Senior Independent non-executive Director, is available to shareholders if they wish to raise any matters that contact  
through the normal channels of Executive Chairman, Chief Financial Officer or Company Secretary has failed to resolve or for which  
such contact is inappropriate. 
Corporate Governance Statement continued