 32 Report of the Audit Committees
Report of the Audit Committees
This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees
of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction
with the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, (the
Committees) and has been approved by the respective boards.
The report meets the requirements of the Combined Code
of Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial
Services Authority.
Audit Committees
The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in
relation to the respective companies are set out in written
terms of reference and include:
(i) to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the
company, and any formal announcements relating to the
company's financial performance, reviewing significant
financial reporting judgments contained in them;
(ii) to review the company's internal financial controls and
the company's internal control and risk management
systems;
(iii) to monitor and review the effectiveness of the company's
internal audit function;
(iv) to make recommendations to the board, for it to put
to the shareholders for their approval in general
meetings, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment
and removal of the external auditor and to approve
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
external auditor;
(v) to review and monitor the external auditor's
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness
of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant
professional and regulatory requirements; and
(vi) to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of
the external auditor to supply non audit services, taking
into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the
provision of non audit services by the external audit firm,
and to monitor compliance.
The Committees report to the respective boards on their
activities identifying any matters in respect of which they
consider that action or improvement is needed and making
recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this
role in respect of the publishing and information operating
business. The functions of an audit committee in respect
of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory
Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV. The Reed Elsevier PLC
and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles
from the perspective of the parent companies and both
Committees have access to the reports to and the work
of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the
Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board in this respect.
The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any
matters within their terms of reference and have access to
all resources and information that they may require for this
purpose. The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and
other independent professional advice and have the authority
to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee
is published on the Reed Elsevier website,
www.reedelsevier .com.
Committee membership
The Committees each comprise at least three independent
non-executive directors. The current members of each
of the Committees are: Lord Sharman (Chairman of the
Committees), Lisa Hook (from 24 July 2006), David Reid and
Strauss Zelnick. Lord Sharman and David Reid are
considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial
experience.
Lord Sharman (63), a chartered accountant, spent his
professional career at KPMG and now serves as non-
executive Chairman of Aviva PLC and Aegis Group plc. He is
a member of the Supervisory Board of ABN-AMRO NV and a
non-executive director of BG Group plc. He was elected UK
senior partner of KPMG in 1994 and served as Chairman of
KPMG Worldwide between 1997 and 1999. Lisa Hook (48) is
the president and chief executive officer of Sun Rocket Inc;
she was previously the president of AOL Broadband,
Premium and Developer Services. David Reid (60),
a chartered accountant, was appointed non-executive
Chairman of Tesco PLC in April 2004. Prior to this
appointment, he was executive Deputy Chairman, with
responsibility for strategy, business development and
international operations; he was previously the finance
director of Tesco PLC. Strauss Zelnick (49) is the founder
of Zelnick Media Corporation. He is Chairman of Columbia
Music Entertainment Inc, Direct Holdings Worldwide LLC and
OTX Corporation. Prior to founding Zelnick Media he was
President and Chief Executive Officer of BMG Entertainment.
Appointments to the Committees are made on the
recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are
for periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than
two additional three-year periods, so long as the member
continues to be independent. Details of the remuneration
policy in respect of members of the Committees and the
remuneration paid to members for the year ended
31 December 2006 are set out in the Directors' Remuneration
Report on pages 34 to 51.
Committee activities
The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: in
January, February, June, July and December, and report on
these meetings to the respective boards at the next board
meetings. The principal business of these meetings includes:
> January: review of critical accounting policies and
practices, and significant financial reporting issues  33 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2006
and judgments made in connection with the annual
financial statements; review of internal control
effectiveness; reviewing and approving the internal 
audit plan; review of internal audit findings
> February: review and approval of annual financial
statements, results announcement and related formal
statements; review of external audit findings
> June: monitoring and assessing the qualification,
performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and
independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness
of the external and internal audit process; agreeing the
external audit plan; reviewing significant financial reporting
issues and judgments arising in connection with the interim
financial statements; review of risk management activities;
review of report from external auditors on control matters;
review of internal audit findings
> July: review and approval of the interim financial
statements, results announcement and related formal
statements; review of external audit findings; review of
internal audit findings
> December: review of year end financial reporting and
accounting issues; review of significant external financial
reporting and regulatory developments; review of external
audit findings to date; review of internal audit findings.
The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended 
by the chief financial officer, group chief accountant, director
of internal audit and senior representatives of the external
auditors. Additionally, the managing director and senior
representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed
Finance BV attend the July and February meetings of the
parent company Audit Committees. At two or more of the
meetings each year, the Committees additionally meet
separately with the external auditors without management
present, and also with the director of internal audit.
In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect
of the 2006 financial year, the Committees have:
(i) received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier
Group plc group chief accountant that set out areas
of significance in the preparation of the financial
statements, including: review of the carrying values of
goodwill and intangible assets for possible impairment,
review of estimated useful lives of intangible assets,
accounting for pensions and related assumptions,
accounting for share based remuneration and related
assumptions, accounting treatment for acquisitions
and disposals, application of revenue recognition and
cost capitalisation, accounting for derivatives, review of tax
reserves and provisions for lease obligations.
(ii) reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance
with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure
requirements and have received regular update reports on
accounting and regulatory developments.
(iii) received and discussed regular reports on the
management of material risks and reviewed the
effectiveness of the systems of internal control. As part
of this review, detailed internal control evaluation and
certification is obtained from management across the
operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit
and discussed with the Committees. 
(iv) received and discussed regular reports from the director of
internal audit summarising the status of the Reed Elsevier
risk management activities and the findings from internal
audit reviews and the actions agreed with management. An
area of focus in 2006 has been to review the progress in
addressing the requirements of Section 404 of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and
testing of internal controls over financial reporting.
(v) reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2006
and monitored execution. Reviewed the resources and
budget of the internal audit function. 
The external auditors have attended all meetings of the
Committees. They have provided written reports at the June,
July, December and February meetings summarising the
most significant findings from their audit work. These reports
have been discussed by the Committees and actions agreed
where necessary. 
The external auditors have confirmed their independence
from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier
policy on auditor independence. This policy sets out inter alia
the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and other
senior partners, as well as guidelines for the provision of
permitted non audit services. The Committees have reviewed
and agreed the non audit services provided by the external
auditors, together with the associated fees. The external
auditors' fees for audit services have been reviewed and
approved by the Committees. 
At their meeting in June 2006, the Committees conducted
a formal review of the performance of the external auditors
and the effectiveness of the external audit process. Based on
this review, and on their subsequent observations on the
planning and execution of the external audit for the year
ended 31 December 2006, the Committees have
recommended to the respective boards that resolutions for
the re-appointment of the external auditors be proposed
at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
The effectiveness of the process for internal audit activities
and of the operation of the Audit Committees was reviewed in
December .
Lord Sharman of Redlynch
Chairman of the Audit Committees
14 February 2007