 95
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements and other information Financial review Business review Overview Governance
Report of the Audit Committees
This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of  
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in conjunction with the 
Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc (the Committees)  
and has been approved by the respective Boards. It provides an 
overview of the membership, responsibilities and activities of  
the Committees. The functions of an audit committee in respect  
of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory  
Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV. The Reed Elsevier PLC and 
Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the 
perspective of the parent companies and both Committees  
have access to the reports to and the work of the Reed Elsevier 
Group plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV 
Supervisory Board in this respect.
Membership
The Committees comprise at least three independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The members of each of the 
Committees that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer 
(Chairman of the Committees), Sir David Reid (until April 2013), 
Adrian Hennah and Linda Sanford. Adrian Hennah, a UK chartered 
accountant, and Ben van der Veer, a registered accountant in the 
Netherlands, are considered to have significant, recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
Responsibilities
The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are to assist 
the respective Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities 
regarding:
   the integrity of Reed Elsevier's interim and financial 
statements and reporting process;
   risk management and internal controls, and the effectiveness 
of the internal auditors; and 
   the effectiveness, performance and qualifications of the 
external auditors, including monitoring their independence 
and objectivity. 
The Committees report to the respective Boards on their 
activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they consider 
that action or improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed 
annually and a copy of each is published on the Reed Elsevier 
website, www.reedelsevier .com.
Committee meetings
The Committees met five times during 2013. The Audit Committee 
meetings are typically attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial 
controller, the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer and 
director of internal audit, and audit partners from the external 
auditors. Additionally, in 2013, senior representatives of the 
external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV attended the July 
and February meetings of the parent company Audit Committees.
 
Financial reporting
In discharging their responsibilities in respect of the 2013 interim 
and financial statements, the Committees have:
   reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the 
preparation of the financial statements, including in particular:
i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets - the 
judgements in respect of asset carrying values relate to the 
assumptions underlying the value in use calculations 
including discount rates and long-term growth 
assumptions.  The Committees received and discussed a 
report from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial 
controller on the methodology and the basis of the 
assumptions used.
ii. capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets - the 
capitalisation of costs related to the development of new 
products and business infrastructure, together with the 
useful economic lives applied to the resulting assets, 
requires the exercise of judgement. The Committees 
received reports from the Reed Elsevier Group plc financial 
controller on the amounts capitalised and asset lives 
selected for major projects.
iii. uncertain tax positions - assessing potential liabilities 
across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires 
judgement in making tax determinations.  The Committees 
received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier 
Group plc head of group taxation on the potential liabilities 
identified and estimates applied.
The Committees also received detailed written and verbal 
reports from the external auditors on these matters. The 
Committees were satisfied with the explanations provided and 
conclusions reached.
   reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance with 
applicable accounting standards and other disclosure 
requirements and received regular update reports on 
accounting and regulatory developments.
   considered whether the annual report taken as a whole was 
fair, balanced and understandable.
Risk management and internal controls
With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal 
controls, the Committees have:
   received and discussed regular reports summarising the 
status of Reed Elsevier risk management activities and the 
findings from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed 
with management. Areas of focus in 2013 included: 
management of investment programmes; regulatory 
compliance and review of information security including the 
management of data privacy; business continuity planning; and 
continued compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of 
the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and 
testing of internal controls over financial reporting.
   reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2013 and 
monitored execution, including progress in respect of 
recommendations made.
   reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness 
of the Reed Elsevier Group plc risk management and internal 
audit functions. 
29275_SAS_p095-096.indd   95 07/03/2014   11:21 96
GOVERNANCE
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES
   received presentations from: the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief 
compliance officer on the compliance programmes, including 
the operation of Reed Elsevier's codes of conduct, training 
programmes and whistleblowing arrangements; the Reed 
Elsevier Inc. general counsel on the management of data 
privacy, security and compliance; the Reed Elsevier Group plc 
IT security officer on information technology security; and  
the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer on legal issues 
and claims.
   received updates from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group 
treasurer on pension arrangements and funding, treasury 
policies and risk management, compliance with treasury 
policies, and global insurance arrangements.
   received presentations from the Reed Elsevier Group plc head 
of group taxation on tax policies and related matters.
   received regular updates from the Chief Financial Officer on 
developments within the finance function.
   received presentations on a rotational basis from the chief 
financial officers of major businesses on the priorities for the 
finance functions and the risk management and internal 
control activities.
External audit effectiveness
Reed Elsevier has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness 
and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the 
responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of 
auditors to be proposed for appointment or re-appointment and 
for agreement on the terms of their engagement, scope and 
remuneration; the auditor independence requirements and the 
policy on the provision of non-audit services; the rotation of audit 
partners and staff; and the conduct of meetings between the 
auditors and the Audit Committees. The policy is available on the 
Reed Elsevier website, www.reedelsevier .com.
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit  
services that would compromise their independence or violate 
any professional requirements or regulations affecting their 
appointment as auditors. The auditors may, however , provide 
non-audit services which do not conflict with their independence, 
and where their skills and experience make them a logical 
supplier , subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees. The 
Committees have, each quarter , reviewed and agreed the 
non-audit services provided in 2013, together with the associated 
fees which are set out in note 3 to the combined financial 
statements. The non-audit services provided were in the areas of 
audit-related activities such as royalty assurance, tax advice and 
compliance, due diligence and other transaction-related services. 
Non-audit services performed in the Netherlands are limited to 
audit-related activities. 
The external auditors have confirmed their independence and 
compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence 
to the Audit Committees.  
Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV or their predecessor 
firms were first appointed auditors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed 
Elsevier NV respectively for the financial year ended 31 December 
1994. The auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partners 
responsible for the audit engagements every five years. The lead 
engagement partner for Reed Elsevier PLC has now completed his 
fifth year and is required to rotate off the audit. The lead engagement 
partner for Reed Elsevier NV has completed four years. 
The Committees conducted their annual review of the 
performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of 
the external audit process for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
The review was based on a survey of key stakeholders across 
Reed Elsevier , consideration of public reports by regulatory 
authorities on key Deloitte member firms and the quality of the 
auditors' reporting to and interaction with the Audit Committees.  
Based on this review, the Audit Committees were satisfied with 
the performance of the auditors and the effectiveness of the 
audit process.
Any decision to open the audit to tender is taken only on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committees. The Committees have 
monitored regulatory developments in the UK and the Netherlands 
regarding length of audit tenure, tendering and audit firm rotation.  
In light of the transition of the Reed Elsevier Chief Financial Officer 
and the continued objectivity, independence and effectiveness of 
Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV, the Audit Committees 
have concluded that it will neither be appropriate nor necessary to 
change auditors or hold a tender during 2014.
The Committees have, therefore, recommended to the respective 
Boards that resolutions for the re-appointment of the external 
auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings. 
An audit tender will, however , be undertaken in due course in 
line with the transitional arrangements applicable in the UK 
and the Netherlands; the timing of this will be discussed by 
the Committees during 2014.  Under current legislation in the 
Netherlands, Deloitte would not be eligible to participate in any 
such tender . 
The effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees was 
reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the Boards in 
February 2014.
Ben van der Veer
Chairman of the Audit Committees 
26 February 2014
29275_SAS_p095-096.indd   96 07/03/2014   11:21