 76 Report of the Audit Committees
Report of the Audit Committees
This report has been prepared by the Audit
Committees of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed
Elsevier NV, in conjunction with the Audit
Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, 
(the Committees) and has been approved 
by the respective boards.
The report meets the requirements of the
Combined Code of Corporate Governance,
issued by the UK Financial Services Authority.
Audit Committees
The main role and responsibilities of the
Committees in relation to the respective
companies are set out in written terms of
reference and include:
(i) to monitor the integrity of the financial
statements of the company, and any
formal announcements relating to the
company's financial performance,
reviewing significant financial reporting
judgements contained in them;
(ii) to review the company's internal financial
controls and the company's internal
control and risk management systems;
(iii) to monitor and review the effectiveness
of the company's internal audit function;
(iv) to make recommendations to the board,
for it to put to the shareholders for their
approval in general meetings, in relation
to the appointment, re-appointment and
removal of the external auditor and to
approve the remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the external auditor;
(v) to review and monitor the external
auditors' independence and objectivity
and the effectiveness of the audit
process, taking into consideration
relevant professional and regulatory
requirements; and
(vi) to develop and recommend policy on 
the engagement of the external auditor
to supply non audit services, taking into
account relevant ethical guidance
regarding the provision of non audit
services by the external audit firm, 
and to monitor compliance.
The Committees report to the respective
boards on their activities identifying any
matters in respect of which they consider
that action or improvement is needed and
making recommendations as to the steps 
to be taken.
The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee
fulfils this role in respect of the publishing
and information operating business. The
functions of an audit committee in respect
of the financing activities are carried out 
by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed
Finance BV. The Reed Elsevier PLC and 
Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil
their roles from the perspective of the parent
companies and both Committees have access
to the reports to and the work of the Reed
Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the
Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board
in this respect.
The Committees have explicit authority to
investigate any matters within their terms of
reference and have access to all resources
and information that they may require for 
this purpose. The Committees are entitled 
to obtain legal and other independent
professional advice and have the authority 
to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
A copy of the terms of reference of each
Audit Committee is published on the Reed
Elsevier website, www.reedelsevier .com.
Committee membership
The Committees each comprise at least
three independent non-executive directors.
The members of each of the Committees
that served during the year are: Lord
Sharman (Chairman of the Committees),
Lisa Hook, David Reid and Strauss Zelnick
(until 7 December 2007). Lord Sharman and
David Reid, both chartered accountants, are
considered to have significant, recent and
relevant financial experience. Biographies of
the members of each of the Committees are 
set out on page 37.
Appointments to the Committees are made
on the recommendation of the Nominations
Committee and are for periods of up to 
three years, extendable by no more than two
additional three-year periods, so long as 
the member continues to be independent.
Details of the remuneration policy in respect
of members of the Committees and the
remuneration paid to members for the year
ended 31 December 2007 are set out in the
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 
51 to 75. 77 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007
Committee activities
The Committees typically hold meetings 
five times a year: in January, February, June,
July and December, and report on these
meetings to the respective boards at the 
next board meetings. The principal business
of these meetings includes:
> January: review of critical accounting
policies and practices, and significant
financial reporting issues and
judgements made in connection with the
annual financial statements; review of
internal control effectiveness; reviewing
and approving the internal audit plan;
review of internal audit findings;
> February: review and approval of
annual financial statements, results
announcement and related formal
statements; review of external
audit findings;
> June: monitoring and assessing the
qualification, performance, expertise,
resources, objectivity and independence
of the external auditors and the
effectiveness of the external and internal
audit process; agreeing the external
audit plan; reviewing significant financial
reporting issues and judgements arising
in connection with the interim financial
statements; review of significant external
financial reporting and regulatory
developments; review of risk
management activities; review of report
from external auditors on control
matters; review of internal audit findings;
> July: review and approval of the interim
financial statements, results
announcement and related formal
statements; review of external audit
findings; review of internal audit findings;
> December: review of year end financial
reporting and accounting issues; review 
of significant external financial reporting
and regulatory developments; review of
external audit findings to date; review of
internal audit findings.
The Audit Committee meetings are typically
attended by the chief financial officer, group
chief accountant, director of internal audit
and senior representatives of the external
auditors. Additionally, the managing director
and senior representatives of the external
auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV attend
the July and February meetings of the parent
company Audit Committees. At two or more
of the meetings each year, the Committees
additionally meet separately with the external
auditors without management present, and
also with the director of internal audit.
In discharging their principal responsibilities
in respect of the 2007 financial year, the
Committees have:
(i) received and discussed reports from 
the Reed Elsevier Group plc group 
chief accountant that set out areas
of significance in the preparation of the
financial statements, including: review 
of the carrying values of goodwill and
intangible assets for possible impairment,
review of estimated useful lives of
intangible assets, accounting for
pensions and related assumptions,
accounting for share based remuneration
and related assumptions, review of the
carrying value of investments,
accounting treatment for acquisitions
and disposals, application of revenue
recognition and cost capitalisation,
accounting for derivatives, review of tax
reserves and provisions for lease
obligations. An area of focus in 2007 was
the accounting and judgements in respect
of the disposal of Harcourt Education.
(ii) reviewed the critical accounting 
policies and compliance with applicable
accounting standards and other
disclosure requirements and have
received regular update reports on
accounting and regulatory developments.
(iii) received and discussed regular reports
on the management of material risks
and reviewed the effectiveness of the
systems of internal control. As part
of this review, detailed internal control
evaluation and certification is obtained
from management across the operating
businesses, reviewed by internal audit
and discussed with the Committees. 
(iv) received and discussed regular reports
from the director of internal audit
summarising the status of the Reed
Elsevier risk management activities 
and the findings from internal audit
reviews and the actions agreed with
management. An area of focus in 2007 78 Report of the Audit Committees
Report of the Audit Committees continued
has been to review the continued
compliance with the requirements of
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
relating to the documentation and testing
internal controls over financial reporting.
(v) reviewed and approved the internal audit
plan for 2007 and monitored execution.
Reviewed the resources and budget of
the internal audit function. 
(vi) received presentations from the CFOs of
Elsevier and Reed Business on the key
financial priorities for those divisions.
(vii) received regular updates from the CFO of
Reed Elsevier on developments within
the finance function.
Lord Sharman and Lisa Hook attended all
five meetings of the Committees in 2007,
David Reid attended four meetings, Strauss
Zelnick attended three of the four meetings
during the period for which he served as a
member of the Committees.
The external auditors have attended all
meetings of the Committees. They have
provided written reports at the June, July,
December and February meetings
summarising the most significant findings
from their audit work. These reports have
been discussed by the Committees and
actions agreed where necessary. 
The external auditors have confirmed 
their independence from management and
compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy 
on auditor independence. This policy sets 
out inter alia the requirements for rotation 
of the lead, review and other senior audit
partners, as well as guidelines for the
provision of permitted non audit services. 
The Committees have reviewed and agreed
the non audit services provided by the
external auditors, together with the
associated fees. The external auditors' fees 
for audit services have been reviewed and
approved by the Committees. 
At their meeting in June 2007, the
Committees conducted a formal review of
the performance of the external auditors 
and the effectiveness of the external audit
process. Based on this review, and on their
subsequent observations on the planning
and execution of the external audit for the
year ended 31 December 2007, the Committees
have recommended to the respective boards
that resolutions for the re-appointment of
the external auditors be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
The effectiveness of the internal audit
function and of the operation of the Audit
Committees was reviewed in January 2008.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch
Chairman of the Audit Committees
20 February 2008 Our business
80 Description of business
86 Resources and investment
88 Principal risks
90 Key performance measures