 Statement of Compliance with the Code of Best Practice
The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require
listed companies to comply with  The Combined Code -
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice'
( the Code') which is appended to the Financial Services
Authority Listing Rules. In July 2003 the Financial Reporting
Council issued a revised Combined Code ( the Revised Code'),
derived from the Higgs Review on the role and effectiveness of
Non-Executive Directors and Sir Robert Smith's guidance for
Audit Committees. The Revised Code applies to accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003 - so in the
case of Reed Health Group, the Revised Code became
effective on 1 July 2004 and this will apply to the Company 
for the year ending 30 June 2005. Meanwhile the Board has
reviewed its existing corporate governance arrangements and
implemented new procedures, where appropriate, to reflect the
Revised Code's recommendations. 
The Company complied throughout the year with the Code
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
published by the Committee on Corporate Governance in June
1998 ( the Code') except the inclusion on the Remuneration
Committee of James Reed, who is not an independent
Director, is a breach of the Combined Code.
The manner in which the Group applies the principles of 
good governance contained in the Code is described in the
appropriate parts of this Annual Report. Consequently the
application by the Company of the Code's principles to
remuneration matters on pages 25 to 27 should be read in
conjunction with the statement below.
Directors
During the year, the Company has maintained a Board of
Directors which leads and controls the Company by holding 
at least 10 meetings a year at which current performance is
examined and directions are given. Regular reports on 
monthly performance and other ad hoc matters of importance
to the Company ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely
manner with the information necessary to make an informed
judgement. Additional meetings are held to discuss the
Company's long-term strategic focus and other matters, 
as necessary.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association 
and the Code, each Director is subject to re-election by the
Company's shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
immediately following appointment and at least every three
years thereafter.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it
for decision and has written terms of reference for the various
committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain
matters. All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for 
ensuring that Board procedures are followed. There is also a
procedure in place for any Director to take independent legal
advice if necessary, at the Company's expense.
The Board is led by the Non-Executive Chairman, 
Barry Hartop. The day-to-day running of the Company's
business is delegated to an Executive team of David Fennell,
the Chief Executive, Mark Garratt, the Group Finance Director
and Susan Dael, the Group HR Director. The Board has three
further Non-Executive Directors. Brief biographies of the
Directors are given on page 17 With the exception of 
James Reed, all the Non-Executives are considered to be
independent, not being past Executives of the Company and
other than their shareholdings and fees they have no financial
interest in the Company. James Reed is a Director of Reed
Executive plc which provides the Group with certain property
related services and minimal IT services details of which are 
set out in note 6 to the financial statements. Non-Executives
comprise more than a third of the Board. Thomas Fraser acts
as the Company's Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
28 Reed Health Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Whilst the inclusion of James Reed, who is not an independent
Director, is a breach of the Combined Code, the Committee
welcomes his contribution in determining Executive
remuneration given that he is also a significant shareholder 
and has direct operational experience of our industry. 
The Committee, which is chaired by Barry Hartop determines
policy on Executive Directors' remuneration. The Committee
also determines the criteria on which employee share option
schemes and invitations to participate are to be offered. 
The report of the Remuneration Committee on the policies
which it applies and on the Executive Directors' remuneration
packages is set out on pages 25 to 27. 
The Nomination Committee consisted of two Non-Executive
Directors and was not required to meet during the year as the
members of the Board remained unchanged.
Internal controls
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the
Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of
the Group. The process has been in place for the full year
under review and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements. The Board regularly reviews 
the process.
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness; whilst the
role of management is to implement Board policies on risk
management and control to meet its obligations under the
Turnbull guidance. It should be recognised that the Group's
system of internal control is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's business
objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
29 Reed Health Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
All Board and committee meetings, and their attendees, are recorded. The Board met 12 times in the financial year. The Board
considers monthly reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director and its minutes are circulated to all Board members.
Director Barry Hartop Lord Sawyer James Reed Thomas Fraser David Fennell Mark Garratt Susan Dael Adrian Carter
Number of 
meetings attended 11 12 10 10 12 12 8 8
The Board has set in train the process of carrying out a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance, of its committees
and of its individual Directors. A specialist consultant has been retained to assist the process.
The Board has procedures that allow all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their role and responsibilities. Appropriate training,
briefings and induction are available to all Directors on appointment, taking into account existing qualifications and experience.
Board committees
The Board operates an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee. The members of each
committee are listed on page 17. Each of the Board's committees has carefully drafted terms of reference and consists entirely of
Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee consisted of three Non-Executive Directors and met at least twice.
Director Lord Sawyer James Reed Thomas Fraser David Fennell Mark Garratt Barry Hartop
Number of meetings attended 222222
The Committee, which is chaired by Thomas Fraser considers and recommends the appointment and fees of the external
auditors, reviews the scope and results of the annual external audit, considers the independence and objectivity of the external
auditors, reviews prior to publication, the interim results, preliminary announcement and the annual financial statements and
reviews the Group's system of internal control.
The Remuneration Committee consisted of three Non-Executive Directors and met once.
Director Barry Hartop Lord Sawyer James Reed David Fennell Susan Dael Adrian Carter
Number of meetings attended 111111 The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control; the key processes used in
doing so included the following:
  annual review of the Group risks;
 production and regular updating of summaries of key
controls applied by operating companies measured against
Group benchmarks which cover all internal controls, 
both financial and non-financial;
  the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of
the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board
receives minutes of the meetings; and 
  review the role of insurance in managing risks across 
the Group.
The Group has operated a risk management process which 
is embedded in normal management and governance
processes. A quality management system, which complies
with ISO 9000: 2000, is maintained.
The Group operates a series of controls which are
communicated through operating and control manuals in
existence at both a divisional and Group level. These controls
include, but are not limited to, the annual strategic planning
and budgeting process, a clearly defined organisational
structure with authorisation limits, reviews by senior
management of monthly financial and operating information
including comparisons with budgets.
In common with a number of other smaller quoted companies,
the Company does not have an internal audit function. 
The Audit Committee considers the need for such a function 
at the meeting with the external auditors to review the full 
year results. Significant risk issues are referred to the Board 
for consideration.
Communication with shareholders
The Board attaches a high priority to communications with
shareholders. Presentations are made to shareholders,
institutions and analysts by the Chief Executive and Group
Finance Director at least twice a year to coincide with results
announcements. Additional dialogue with shareholders is
entered into as necessary, mindful of the rules on insiders and
price-sensitive information.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all
Directors and provides an opportunity for communication 
with those institutional and individual shareholders attending.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is given to shareholders
at least 20 working days in advance and separate resolutions
are proposed on each substantially separate issue. During the
meeting the Chairman also invites questions from shareholders.
Where resolutions at the Annual General Meeting are dealt with
by show of hands, the results of proxy votes for and against
are still announced. After the Annual General Meeting
shareholders can obtain a resum  of the meeting and the
voting figures by writing to the Company Secretary at the
registered office shown on page 16. The Annual General
Meeting is to be held on 25 November 2004. The resolutions
to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, together with
explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual
General Meeting on page 46.
Financial and other information about the Company is available
on the Company's web site at www.reedhealth.com
Going concern
The Board is satisfied that the Group has adequate financial
resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Thomas Fraser
Chairman of the Audit Committee
7 October 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CONTINUED
30 Reed Health Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004