 Application of Principles
The Company regards compliance with the principles of good corporate governance to be important. The statement below describes how these
principles are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
A new Combined Code will apply for the reporting period starting 4 July 2004. Changes to the Company's corporate governance regime are
being considered for the period ending 3 July 2005 in light of the new requirements.
Board of Directors
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading and controlling the Company by meeting regularly, normally monthly and when
necessary for any matters which may arise between meetings. Each year the Board reviews its own performance and arranges suitable training
where appropriate. The Board consists of two Executive and three Non-Executive Directors. Mr N M Batchelor has been appointed senior Non-
Executive Director. The Board acknowledges the division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the running of the Company's
business with the appointment of a Non-Executive Chairman and a Chief Executive.
Mr P J Savage, Mr N M Batchelor and Mr B N Potter are independent Non-Executive Directors. Mr Savage and Mr Batchelor are both Directors
on the Board of a private chemical company. The Board does not believe that this relationship affects their independence in the context of the
affairs of the Company.
The Board has established a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for it for decision and delegates certain powers to the Board
Committees and Executive Directors. The schedule of reserved matters includes acquisitions and disposals, approval of trading and capital
budgets, group borrowing facilities and financing structure and the appointment of professional advisors.
The Board has a formal and transparent process in place for the appointment of new directors.
As part of the Corporate Governance process, the Board regularly reviews other key functions with senior management. The minutes of the
meetings are circulated to all Board members.
Supply of Information
The Board considers monthly reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director and its minutes are circulated to all Board members.
Dialogue with Shareholders
The Directors encourage and seek to build up a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and all its shareholders.
As part of this process, the Chief Executive and Finance Director maintain contact with institutional shareholders through regular meetings and
bi-annual presentations following the results. In addition, all the Board are available to meet with shareholders who have specific interests 
or concerns.
Shareholders may also find useful information on the Company's website which can be found at www.regent-inns.co.uk.
Environmental Policy
Due to the nature of the Company's business it is considered to have low impact environmental risks. The Company is committed to the disposal
and management of waste in line with quality and environmental standards. The Company employs both suppliers and contractors who comply
with relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
The Company's inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index is recognition of its social and environmental performance and details of its Environmental
Objectives are published on its website.
The Company's new Smoking Policy which includes no smoking in the bar area in addition to further dedicated no smoking areas as well as
increased investment in ventilation equipment ensures a more pleasant and safe environment for staff and customers in our venues.
The Company has always adopted a responsible attitude towards serving alcohol in our venues. However, in the light of the Government's alcohol
harm reduction strategy the Company has implemented a Charter for Responsible Price Promotions to minimise alcohol misuse and other anti-
social behaviour.
Annual General Meetings
The Directors also encourage communication with private shareholders and welcome their participation at the Annual General Meeting. At this
meeting the Board present a clear and balanced assessment of the Company's position and prospects. The level of proxy votes lodged and the
balance for and against each resolution is reported to shareholders after each resolution is voted upon.
Internal Control
The Board has established the ongoing procedures it considers necessary to identify, evaluate and manage risk. These procedures include regular
discussion of risk in each part of the Group' s activities and preparation of plans to minimise risks identified. These procedures have been in place for
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The Directors consider the results of risk assessment and
monitor the effectiveness of controls over identified risks and they consider that Turnbull guidance has been followed during the year.
Report on Corporate Governance
14 Regent Inns plc Report and Accounts 2004 Statement on Internal Control
The key features of the Group's internal control system are set out below:
Management Structure
The Company's control environment is the responsibility of the Directors and individual managers at all levels. The Board has satisfied itself the
Company has a clear organisation structure with clearly defined and understood responsibilities and lines of accountability.
Information Systems and Financial Reporting
The Company prepares detailed budgets annually together with working capital and cash flow forecasts. These are based on the Company's
strategy and are formally approved by the Board. Detailed accounts are prepared monthly, compared with budget and variances analysed. The
Board reviews updates of the forecast for the business quarterly.
Expenditure Control
Both capital and operational expenditure have a systematic control structure largely centred on the budgetary process together with defined
delegation of authorities. The Board itself reviews expenditure above pre-set levels. Review of capital expenditure after completion is carried out to
confirm financial targets have been met and that expenditure controls were diligently applied.
Risk Management
A comprehensive review of all risks in the business is carried out twice a year, building on similar exercises carried out in the previous years. Risks
are prioritised and agreed programmes of elimination or minimisation are regularly reviewed as is the risk profile itself.
Effectiveness
The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Company's performance in its monthly process. The Executive team mirrors this process in more
detail itself. Through the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of internal controls are regularly reviewed with, where appropriate, input from the
Company's external auditors.
The Board also reviews its own processes and effectiveness once a year.
The Board believes it has applied Turnbull guidance during the period. It acknowledges that the Board is responsible for the systems and
effectiveness of internal control. The Company's control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and therefore the Board can
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss or mis-statement.
Directors' Responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors chaired by Mr N M Batchelor, which meets twice a year and as necessary. The
Finance Director normally attends the meetings, by invitation, and the Chief Executive attends if requested to do so by the Committee. The
Company's external auditors attend the meetings at which the Committee considers the Company's half-year and final results prior to their
submission to the Board.
Remuneration and Appointments Committee
The Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, Mr N M Batchelor, Mr B N Potter and Mr P J Savage (Chairman).
The Report on Directors' Remuneration which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors' Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 and approved by the Board, is set out on pages 9 to 13.
Report and Accounts 2004 15 Regent Inns plc