 28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate responsibility
OUR VISION IS TO BE RECOGNISED 
AS A COMMITTED SUPPORTER 
OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
As a business that works 
across nearly 2,000 
locations, we have a 
responsibility to the local 
communities of which we 
are a part. In 2013, we 
worked hard to impact 
positively the communities 
in which our team 
members, stakeholders 
and suppliers reside.
At the same time there is a clear business 
case for our engagement with local 
communities and efforts to improve their 
welfare, because we are a major source 
of business for the local community and 
it for us. We help develop local business 
ecosystems - recruiting and purchasing 
locally. This helps improve the local 
business environment, which then attracts 
other businesses to the area, some of 
which may decide to use Regus. The 
deeper our engagement across multiple 
levels, the greater this symbiotic effect. 
Because our community support is 
spread over a wide geographical area, 
it's important that we adhere to specifi c 
selection criteria, ensuring our support 
goes to areas in which we can make the 
largest positive contribution. Therefore, 
our community engagement work in 2013 
focused on supporting local community 
groups in the vicinity of one of our 
centres and which correspond with 
one of the following:
  helping businesses get started and 
enabling them to reach their full potential
  education and health
Within these areas, our team members 
offered different types of support in 
2013: mentoring, volunteering, helping 
organisations to raise their profi le, 
equipment support, entrepreneurial 
development, and arranging business 
opportunities such as networking events. 
In addition, we do much to increase 
awareness of those in need within our 
communities, and encourage our 
customers to join our centres in taking 
an active supporting role. 
All activities are co-ordinated, monitored 
and evaluated by the Corporate 
Responsibility team. This ensures that all 
activities are aligned and help us achieve 
our goals, but also that we learn from our 
initiatives and that best practice is shared 
and replicated.
Here is a small selection of some of 
those activities.
Fundraising
Regus team members across the network 
raised funds for local community groups, 
charities and other organisations, ranging 
from our team in the Philippines collecting 
donations to support emergency relief 
measures for typhoon and earthquake 
victims, to team members in the USA 
raising funds for the breast cancer charity 
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure .
In Hong Kong, Philippines and Mexico, 
Regus supported the Make-a-Wish 
Foundation's Wishing Season, raising 
funds, volunteering and selling Christmas 
cards to help create memorable moments 
for ill children in those countries.
Regus teams around the world have 
also run marathons and triathlons, 
skydived, raced up the stairs of 
skyscrapers, and slept out overnight 
to raise sponsorship funds.
Networking events
Many Regus centres hosted networking 
events, bringing together local customers 
and stakeholders. In addition to 
encouraging participation in community 
development activities, these events 
help local entrepreneurs to develop their 
own businesses.
Events ranged from networking activities 
in Nevada, USA to support the Northern 
Nevada Children's Cancer Foundation, to 
team members in Newcastle, UK, joining 
forces with the Wallace and Gromit 
Children's Charity to host a Big Breakfast 
event for customers and other local 
business people. A networking evening 
for business women in Brno, Czech 
Republic raised funds for the Modry 
Hroch Foundation which supports 
children's hospitals.
These events all help to raise awareness of 
the social needs within our communities as 
our involvement in the Melbourne, Australia 
campaign to end violence against women, 
and the S o Paulo, Brazil campaign raising 
awareness of breast cancer have shown.
Gifts in kind
Since 2012 Regus has supported the 
Start Up Loans initiative, a UK government 
backed venture which helps young 
entrepreneurs set up a business. Regus 
offers the entrepreneurs a virtual offi ce for 
a six-month period. To date almost 1,000 
new businesses have been supported.
In a number of centres in the UK and North 
America, Regus facilitated collections of 
unwanted business technology, working 
with Computers for Charities and World 
Computer Exchange to bring refurbished 
IT to public education facilities in Africa.
Other gifts in kind from Regus teams 
ranged from children's toys donated by 
our teams in Argentina, Romania and 
Australia to arranging donations of 
blankets on Mandela Day for a homeless 
shelter in South Africa.
Volunteering
In Munich, Germany, team members joined 
with Regus customers to help clean up 
after severe fl ooding in some parts of the 
city. Those who could not join the clean-up 
donated refreshments, gloves and bin 
liners. Meanwhile, in South Africa, Regus 
staff supported the 2013 Santa Cause  
Children's and Orphans Christmas Party, 
both volunteering at and co-sponsoring 
the event. Our team in India formed a 
partnership with Enactus - an organisation 
which uses entrepreneurial action to 
strengthen communities.  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
  www.regus.com/investors 29
Regus Philippine Appeal supporting the ABS-CBN 
Foundation-Sagip Kapumilya.
Fundraising to support humanitarian relief efforts in the 
Philippines following Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan).
Gearing up for a cycling challenge in support of Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Running in the Paris marathon for  Get Kids Going'.
Prague Run Up Challenge raising funds for the Czech Young 
Sportsmen Association. 30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate responsibility
continued
Christmas charitable activities
In 2013, the team at a Group operational 
level donated the Company's contribution 
to its Christmas party to charity. The 
monies were then distributed to a variety 
of organisations, nominated and selected 
by the team
Regus centres in the UK supported 
Operation Christmas Child, acting as 
collection points for shoeboxes fi lled with 
small gifts for disadvantaged children 
around the world. Through their efforts, 
more than 5,000 disadvantaged children 
received a Christmas gift.
Our team in Hong Kong also supported 
the Concordia Welfare and Education Fund 
which provides education to children in 
parts of Asia.
Those activities are just a few examples 
of our community engagement in 2013. In 
addition to making a positive contribution 
to local communities, the examples are an 
illustration of the engagement, dynamism 
and creativity of Regus team members 
across the world.
Environmental impact
We continue to improve our environmental 
performance for our traditional centres 
and, as stated in our environmental policy, 
are still committed to a 50% reduction in 
CO
2
 emissions for our UK business by 
2020 based on our 2007 base year.
In 2013 we achieved an average 31% 
reduction (target 29%) from our 2007 base 
in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
for our UK Regus centres (see Chart 
below). To meet our 2020 target we will 
need to achieve a 5% year-on-year 
reduction from now until then. This may 
prove challenging due to the acquisition 
of MWB, whose locations are signifi cantly 
less effi cient than our existing centres. 
However, our teams are currently working 
hard putting in place carbon reducing 
policies and measures to improve their 
energy effi ciency. Once this work has 
been completed we will review our 
overall progress and revise our 
targets accordingly. 
Regus are full participants in the UK 
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy 
Effi ciency Scheme (CRC) and have 
successfully completed the registration 
for Phase 2. We are delighted to report 
an ongoing reduction in our purchased 
allowances of nearly 9% from the start 
of Phase 1 for the existing UK portfolio 
indicating that our carbon reduction 
policies are working. However, due to the 
timing of the MWB acquisition, under the 
CRC rules Regus automatically became 
responsible for the whole of MWB's CRC 
year. We had to subsequently purchase 
15,227 additional CRC allowances at a 
cost of  182,724 to cover all of MWB's 
emissions. In carbon allowance terms this 
is nearly half as much again as the existing 
Regus portfolio.
In the past year, as part of our ongoing 
maintenance programme, we have 
undertaken many hundreds of small 
projects across our portfolio. These 
improve our energy effi ciency and in 
aggregate help to reduce carbon 
emissions overall. Typical projects 
include building controls upgrade, 
heating and chiller upgrades and 
lighting improvements.
Finally, we will be refreshing our 
behavioural change programme in 2014 
to further embed Greener Working 
across our centres. Our Greener Working 
Champions will be encouraging staff and 
clients alike to help Regus reduce its global 
environmental impact. This will include 
further practical measures to improve the 
effi ciency of energy and water usage in 
centres and reduce the amount of general 
waste by making more use of our mixed 
recycling facilities.
0
50
100
150
200
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Regus UK yearly average kg CO
2
 per occupied workstation
Regus UK - Actual Regus UK - Target
2013 average 31% reduction from 2007 base line (target 29%)
Our progress this year
Reduction of the UK carbon footprint
31
%
since 2007
Reduction in total CRC reported 
carbon emissions
9
%
since 2010 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
  www.regus.com/investors 31
Children bring a lot of festive cheer to Regus in the UK.
Supporting Operation Christmas Child with the Shoebox Appeal.
Creating a magical day for orphans in 
South Africa.
Taking part in the Big Summer 
Sleepout in support of 
StepbyStep . 
Giving unwanted business technology a new lease on life.