 37 Renew Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate governance
As an AIM listed company, Renew is not required to follow the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code ), as set out in 
the Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules. The Directors, however, recognise the importance of, and accordingly support, the principles 
of good corporate governance as contained within the Code. The Directors normally seek to follow the Code to the extent considered relevant 
for an AIM listed company but are unable to achieve compliance with the Code in a number of areas this year, primarily because of 
the lack of independent non-executive Directors. These matters are explained in further detail in the sections below.
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, one Executive Director and two independent 
non-executive Directors. Brief biographies of the Directors are given on pages 32 and 33. The Company is not compliant with the 
requirement of the Code that more than half of the Board should be comprised of independent non-executive Directors because, 
although the Board believes that he acts as an independent director, Mr Harrison is not regarded as such by the Code due to the period 
in 2004/2005 when he acted as Executive Chairman. 
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly. Appropriate training, briefings and induction are available to all Directors on 
appointment and subsequently as necessary, taking into account existing qualifications and experience. New Directors are subject 
to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. 
The Board met formally ten times in the year with all Directors in attendance. Committee meetings dealing with the daily business 
of the Company were held as necessary. The Board receives written and oral reports from the Executive Directors ensuring matters 
are considered fully and enabling Directors to discharge their duties properly. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board's decision ensuring the maintenance of control over strategic, financial and operational matters. In addition, procedures are 
in place for the Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
Board committees
The Board operates with a number of Board Committees. J Bishop, the senior independent non-executive Director, acts as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and D M Forbes, an independent non-executive Director, acts as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by R J Harrison. 
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Each of the Board's 
Committees has carefully drafted terms of reference. 
The Remuneration Committee, which comprises all of the non-executive Directors, determines and agrees with the Board the 
framework and policy of executive remuneration packages, including bonuses, incentive payments, share options or awards and 
pension arrangements. Further information concerning the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors' Remuneration 
Report on pages 34 to 36. 
The Nominations Committee, which comprises the entire Board, monitors the composition of the Board and recommends the 
appointment of new Directors. The Nominations Committee, with all Directors present, has held two meetings during the year 
to discuss nomination matters.
The Nominations Committee terms of reference include:
(a) to review the structure, size and composition of the Board;
(b) to consider succession planning for Directors and senior executives;
(c) to identify and nominate, for approval by the Board, suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies; and
(d)  to make recommendations to the Board on the contents of letters of appointment, Directors' duties, re-appointment 
or re-election of Directors upon conclusion of a specified term or retirement by rotation.
The Audit Committee has held three meetings to consider Audit Committee business. The Audit Committee consists of all three 
non-executive Directors. The Executive Directors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings but at least two meetings are held 
each year with the external Auditor at which the Executive Directors are not present. The Audit Committee considers the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the risk management and control systems of the Group, and reports the results to the Board. It reviews the scope and 
results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the objectivity of the Auditor. The Audit Committee monitors the non-audit work 
performed by the Auditor to help ensure that the independence of the Auditor is maintained. The Audit Committee also reviews the 
interim statement, the preliminary announcement and accounting policies. 
The Board forms a General Purposes Committee from time it time as it deems necessary. This Committee comprises the 
two Executive Directors and considers individual business matters, which have been specifically delegated to it by the Board.
R J Harrison OBE
Non-executive Chairman
John Bishop
Non-executive Director
David Forbes
Non-executive Director 38 Renew Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate governance continued
Internal controls
Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2013 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, the 
Group has fully complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and the Turnbull guidance. The Directors acknowledge that they 
have overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing and monitoring its effectiveness. The system 
of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the Group is exposed and therefore 
provides a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against a company failing to meet its business objectives or against material 
misstatement or loss. Consequently, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks faced by the Group and that it is regularly reviewed by the Board. 
The Group operates a risk management process, which is embedded in normal management and governance processes. There is a system 
of self-examination of risk areas and controls by subsidiaries and departments within the Group. Where significant risks are identified, the 
probability of those risks occurring, their potential impact and the plans for managing and mitigating each of those risks is reported. The 
Group operates a series of controls which include the annual strategic planning and budgeting process, short-term cash monitoring achieved 
by means of weekly forecasts which are compared against budget and previous forecasts, clearly defined capital investment guidelines and 
levels of authority and a clear organisational structure within which individuals' responsibilities are identified and monitored. These results 
and processes are monitored, updated, reviewed and considered by the Board. The Group has established a series of minimum standards 
in a number of financial and operational areas with which each business within the Group must comply. Group management monitors and 
reviews compliance with these requirements on a periodic basis. Due to the size and nature of the Group, the Board does not consider that 
a separate internal audit function is necessary. For the last six years and including 2013, the Group has carried out a programme of internal 
audit conducted by the Group Commercial Director and by members of the various subsidiaries' finance teams. This system of peer review 
promotes best practice as well as ensuring that Group minimum requirements as to procedures and internal controls are being complied 
with. The reports from these internal audits are made available both to the Board and to the external Auditor.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the budgets and forecasts prepared by the Group and its trading subsidiaries and consider that at 
the time of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors' remuneration
The Company's policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors, and information relating to the Directors' remuneration and their 
interests in share options, is included in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Directors' and officers' indemnity
The Articles of Association provide that each Director or other officer or Auditor of the Company shall be indemnified by the 
Company against losses, costs and expenses he may sustain or incur in connection with the performance of his duties of office, 
to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Shareholder relationships
Members of the Board have dialogue with individual shareholders during the year. In addition to the Annual and Interim Report 
and Accounts, the Chairman addresses shareholders at the AGM and invites questions to any members of the Board. 
The AGM is normally attended by all Directors and provides an opportunity for communication with those shareholders attending. 
Notice of the AGM is given to shareholders at least 21 days in advance and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially 
separate issue. Where resolutions at the AGM are dealt with by show of hands, the results of proxy votes for and against are 
still announced. 
Financial and other information about the Group is available on the Company's website: www.renewholdings.com, from which 
shareholders can also access their shareholding details via a link to the website of Capita Asset Services.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 29 January 2014, the Notice for which accompanies this Report and Accounts. The Notice contains special 
business relating to the renewal of the Board's power to allot equity shares together with other special resolutions proposing 
amendments to service requirements and resolution amendments to bring the Articles of Association into line with modern 
practice. Brief details of the purpose and effect of the proposed resolutions are enclosed with the Notice of AGM. 
Shareholders should complete the proxy form accompanying this document in accordance with the notes contained in the Notice of AGM.
Approval
The Board approved the Corporate Governance Report on 26 November 2013.
By Order of the Board
John Samuel
Company Secretary
26 November 2013