 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 
51
Overview Governance Financial statements Performance Shareholder information
C. Accountability
Financial and business reporting
The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in 
connection with the financial statements are explained in the 
Statement of directors' responsibilities and the Independent 
auditors' report. 
Going concern
The Group's business activities and business model, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Business review, 
where also given are details of the financial and liquidity positions. 
In addition, note 22 in the financial statements includes the 
Group's objectives and policies for managing its capital, details of 
its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures 
to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal 
and the directors have considered the current financial 
projections. As a consequence, the directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
Risk management and internal control
The Board is responsible for the Company's systems of risk 
management and internal control and for reviewing their 
effectiveness. Any system of internal control is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of 
authorities. There are also established and centrally documented 
control procedures, including, for example, capital and other 
expenditure, information and technology security, and legal and 
regulatory compliance. These are applied throughout the Group.
The group internal audit function provides independent and 
objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and 
effectively applied. The Group Audit Manager attends Audit 
committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and 
the results of such internal audits. Actions are monitored by the 
Audit committee on an ongoing basis. 
There is a process for the review of business risks throughout 
the Group. These are reported on a monthly basis by senior 
management and overseas subsidiaries. These reports are 
reviewed by the Board.
The Board ensures that there are effective internal controls over 
the financial reporting and consolidation processes. Monthly 
accounts and forecasts are presented to the Board for review. 
The group internal audit function undertakes a programme of 
review of subsidiaries' accounting processes and performance to 
provide assurance to the Board on the integrity of the information 
supplied by each company which forms part of the consolidated 
results of the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the 
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls and an 
updated risk and controls analysis for the Group. The review 
covers all material controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing 
the Group that has been in place during the year, which is 
regularly reviewed and accords with the Turnbull guidance. 
The Board confirms that necessary action has been or is being 
taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified 
from its review.
Audit committee and auditors
The Audit committee comprises the four non-executive directors. 
The members and the chairman are shown on pages 12 and 13. 
The Board is satisfied that at least two members of the 
committee have recent and relevant financial experience, being 
Terry Garthwaite and David Snowden. The terms of reference of 
this committee were reviewed during the year and are available 
on the Company's website.
The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures 
of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before 
submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory 
requirements. The committee monitors the integrity of the 
Group's financial statements and announcements relating to 
financial performance and reviews the significant reporting 
judgements contained in them. It also reviews the scope, remit 
and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal 
audit function.
The committee has primary responsibility for making the 
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment 
and removal of external auditors, which the Board puts to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM. A new audit partner has 
been allocated responsibility for the Company's audit this year, 
which will be taken into account in relation to consideration 
of the timing of the tender for audit services in future.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its 
cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the 
auditors. The auditors provide a confirmation of independence on 
an annual basis. The committee reviews the nature and extent of 
the non-audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular 
reports on the balance of audit to non-audit fees. The committee 
regards it most cost efficient to use the auditors for tax advice 
and compliance since this requires an in-depth knowledge 
and understanding of the Company's business, products, 
customer base and markets.
The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the 
Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including 
possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters. 
It also monitors the effectiveness of the Company's procedures 
to avoid any bribery by or received by employees and 
representatives of the Group. Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 
52
Directors' corporate governance report continued
The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group 
Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit 
Manager and the external auditors in attendance. At least one 
meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without 
executive directors present.
D. Remuneration
The Directors' remuneration report explains how the Company 
applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
E. Relations with shareholders 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Presentations are given to institutional investors following 
publication of the half-year and full-year results, following which 
interim reports are published and annual reports are delivered to 
all shareholders. The interim and annual results and presentations 
are posted on the Company's website promptly after 
announcement of the results to the UK Listing Authority via an 
RIS. Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the 
Company's headquarters and manufacturing sites where they 
will meet at least one of the executive directors and have the 
opportunity of discussing any issues with them. Meetings with 
investors, analysts and media are reported to the Board and 
analysts' and brokers' reports circulated so that the Board 
develops an understanding of the views of investors and others. 
Non-executive directors are available to attend planned meetings 
with major shareholders. All directors attend the AGM and are 
available to meet shareholders after the meeting.
Constructive use of the AGM
The AGM takes place at the Company's headquarters or 
one of the Company's sites and formal notification is sent to 
the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. 
A business presentation is given at the meeting and all directors 
are available for questions during and after the meeting, including 
the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
committees. Tours of the Company's facilities are offered.
The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on 
each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and 
the number of votes withheld after the resolution has been dealt 
with on a show of hands. This information is provided to the 
shareholders attending the AGM and published via an RIS and on 
the Company's website following the meeting.
Disclosure Rule DTR 7.2.6 R
The information regarding share capital required to be disclosed 
by this rule is contained in the Other statutory and regulatory 
disclosures.
Board and committee membership 
attendance record
Shown against each director's name is the number of meetings of 
the Board and its committees at which the director was present 
and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was 
eligible to attend during the year.
Director Board
Audit
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination
committee
Sir David McMurtry 10 (10) - - 2 (2)
D J Deer 10 (10) - - -
B R Taylor 10 (10) - - -
A C G Roberts 10 (10) - - -
G McFarland 9 (10) - - -
T B Garthwaite 10 (10) 3 (3) 2 (2) 2 (2)
D Grant* 2 (2) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)
T D Snowden 10 (10) 2 (3) 2 (2) 2 (2)
W H Whiteley 9 (10) 2 (3) 2 (2) 1 (2)
* D Grant was appointed on 25th April 2012.
Compliance statement
The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements 
of the Code throughout the year except in relation to the following 
matters (the reasons for non-compliance are stated in the report 
above):
- the combined role of chairman and chief executive; and
-  at least half the Board did not comprise independent  
non-executive directors.
W H Whiteley
Senior independent director
25th July 2012