 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
36
Audit committee report
T erms of reference
The terms of reference of the audit committee (the committee ) 
require it to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the 
company's external financial reporting and its internal control and 
risk management processes. They also place upon the committee 
the responsibility of overseeing the appointment and performance 
of the external auditors, the scope of their duties, their independ -
ence and also to approve the appointment of the head of internal 
audit and to receive and act upon reports from the external and 
internal auditors. The committee has unrestricted access both  
to the external auditors and to the head of internal audit. The 
activities of the company's risk committee are reported to the 
committee by the chief financial officer providing additional 
support to the committee in carrying out its duty to oversee on 
behalf of the board the internal control framework of the group.
The committee's terms of reference were reviewed and updated  
by the board during 2010 and a copy is available on the company's 
website or by application to the company secretary. The commit -
tee's terms of reference take full account of the Smith guidance  
on the role of audit committees. The committee did not find it 
necessary to seek external advice during the year, other than 
through its dialogue with the external auditors.
The aim of the committee is to ensure high standards of corporate 
controls, risk management, reporting and compliance to enhance the 
effectiveness of control processes and to reduce risk. The committee 
mak es recommendations to the board on reporting, control, risk 
management and compliance and provides independent monitoring 
and challenge to ex ecutive management in the committee's area  
of responsibility .
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Committee chairman
Membership, meetings and attendance
The membership of the committee and details of the number of 
meetings held and attendance at each during the year are set out 
earlier in this corporate governance statement. The committee 
meets quarterly and additionally when necessary and during 2010 
met on six occasions. The committee invites the chairman, the 
chief executive, the chief financial officer, the group controller,  
the director of internal audit and representatives of the external 
auditors to attend its meetings. The company secretary attends 
meetings in his role as secretary of the committee. 
During the year, the committee has had a dialogue with the 
external auditors without executives present. 
Activities
A summary of the committee's activities during the year is set  
out below.
Financial reporting and external audit
The committee reviewed and approved the company's annual and 
interim financial statements and first and third quarter trading 
updates after reviewing reports on the financial information prepared 
by the company's auditors. The committee received reports routinely 
on the current status of material litigation to gain comfort that 
potential financial exposures had been appropriately dealt with in 
the financial statements. The committee also considered an analysis 
demonstrating that it was appropriate for the company to prepare its 
accounts on a going concern basis. The committee also reviewed and 
approved a paper proposing the reappointment of KPMG as the 
company's auditors at the 2010 AGM. Governance
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
37
management processes relating to the commencement and 
monitoring of individual projects forming part of the Programme 
Olympic work streams and also reviewed the process developed  
in 2010 of a standardised approach to business continuity 
management across the group.
The committee reviewed the measures the company had in place 
and was introducing to ensure that there were appropriate 
processes to combat the risk of individuals committing acts that 
would be regarded under any jurisdiction as corrupt. This included 
the approval of a new anti-corruption policy that would supplement 
the group's updated code of conduct on business ethics, distributed 
in 2010 to the management population and, in a simplified format, 
to colleagues worldwide. The committee was updated on the 
group's management of its corporate tax arrangements, including 
the level of tax risks within the group and was satisfied that the 
group's tax management was compliant with the risk tolerance set 
out in the group's tax policy previously approved by the board.
Internal control
During the year the committee received presentations on the 
status of the internal control environment from the finance 
directors of the Asia Pacific division, the Textiles & Hygiene  
division and also of the Pest Control division.
During the year the company suffered from a breakdown in the 
control environment in the Philippines business, which although 
not significant to the group as a whole triggered a thorough  
review of systems and processes in the Philippines business 
utilising both internal and external resources. The committee 
reviewed on more than one occasion the circumstances of the 
breakdown and assessed implications for the group's control 
framework in the region.
The Textiles & Hygiene division made a number of appointments  
to improve the quality of financial leadership. However, the 
Benelux businesses in particular suffered from relatively weak 
financial management and some control failings in respect of which 
action was initiated during the year.
The committee reviewed the work underway as part of Programme 
Olympic to modernise the financial and other transactional process -
ing activities of the group, through the gradual creation of shared 
service centres. These are being established in the UK, Germany, 
Switzerland, Austria, the Benelux area, Spain and in Scandinavia. 
These changes are designed to improve the control environment 
and reduce risk as well as delivering operational efficiencies.
The committee considered a paper prepared to assist the commit -
tee and the board in carrying out its review of the effectiveness of 
the group's system of internal controls. The paper set out the risk 
management process together with other measures such as the 
control self-assessment process, quarterly representation letters 
from business unit managers, the incidence of control failings and 
As part of the committee's responsibility to monitor the independ -
ence of the external auditors the committee reviewed the 
company's existing policy on the provision of non-audit services  
by the company's auditors and approved a minor clarification  
in the policy. The committee regularly reviews a schedule of 
non-audit matters carried out by the auditors which mainly  
relate to technical advice on taxation and other matters together 
with a limited amount of investigation activity. The level of 
non-audit fees incurred in the year is described in note 4 to the 
accounts on page 71. 
The committee considered a report setting out the findings of an 
internal evaluation of the 2009 audit process, which was the first 
audit conducted by KPMG. The results showed that overall the 
audit was considered to have met expectations. The auditors 
presented to the committee the audit strategy for 2010 which  
set out the areas of audit focus. The committee considers that  
the company's auditors remain independent.
Risk
In the governance section above the board's approach to risk 
management has been summarised and set out below are some  
of the committee's actions on risk management during the year.
Early in the year, the committee considered a paper on the 
development of the group assurance map, which had been 
amended to more clearly identify the specific risks in business units 
and the effectiveness of management responses alongside the 
proposed internal audit work in relation to the risks and the levels 
of assurance to be gained for each risk.
Later in the year, the committee reviewed the approach taken by 
the company to identify risks facing individual business units and 
the group as a whole. The committee reviewed the assessment 
made by management of the mitigating actions in place to identify 
the net residual risk taken in each of a range of matters relating to 
the group's businesses, using assurance mapping methodology. 
The net risk position formed the basis of the group's internal audit 
plan for 2011. During the year the company categorised risk against 
each of the group's strategic thrusts. The committee found that  
the additional categorisation was a helpful tool in the analysis of 
risk. In relation to the group as a whole, the principal risks 
continued to relate to economic and market conditions and to  
the overall delivery of the operational excellence programme  
and the related issue of the capability of management to deliver 
change anticipated in the group's strategic plan, further details  
on which are provided in the risks and uncertainties section on 
pages 16 to 18.
The committee was updated on the activities of the group's risk 
committee which had been re-constituted during the year to 
provide improved efficiency over the provision of functionally-led 
control mechanisms. The risk committee had reviewed the risk 
Corporate governance 
Audit committee report Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
38
Corporate governance 
Audit committee report
weaknesses and internal control developments during 2010. The 
committee reviewed the proposed statement to be provided to 
shareholders and confirmed that the statement was appropriate.
Internal audit
During the year the group's internal audit resources were strength -
ened. Since the appointment of KPMG in September 2009 the 
internal audit function has utilised the output of the financial 
controls testing carried out by the external auditors to more 
efficiently target internal audit resources to deliver an improved 
level of assurance.
At each meeting the committee considered reports from the 
director of internal audit on control incidents including any matter 
which arose under the group's whistle-blowing arrangements.  
No incident was material to the group as a whole. Any whistle-
blowing report is investigated by the group's internal audit 
function and the outcome reported to the committee.
At each meeting, the committee considers a report on the status  
of internal audit review outcomes and the progress of their 
resolution. Primary responsibility for the adequacy of the financial 
control environment rests with line management, with the internal 
audit function and the results of the external auditors' controls 
testing programmes providing the committee with assurance. 
Committee evaluation
The committee conducted a review of its effectiveness which  
in 2010 was supported by an external evaluator. The review 
concluded that the committee had received sufficient, reliable  
and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil  
its responsibilities and highlighted some areas to improve the 
effectiveness of the committee's oversight of the control environ -
ment and associated assurance processes. The result of the 
evaluation process was reported to the board early in 2011. 
On behalf of the board,
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Chairman, Audit Committee
14 March 2011