 Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Financial aspects of corporate governance
The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance. The
Group aims to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code ) and has
adopted a framework for corporate governance which it believes is suitable for a
company of its size.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Group's affairs. The
Directors have reviewed the principles outlined in the Code and believe that, insofar as they
are relevant to a company of its size, they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
Directors' Statement of Compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Directors continue to review the detailed principles and recommendations outlined
in the UK Corporate Governance Code and believe that, to the extent that they are
relevant to the Company's business, they have complied with the provisions of the Code
during the year ended 31 December 2011 and that the Company's current practice is in
all material respects consistent with the principles of the revised Code.
The Board also confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and understanding,
procedures were in place to meet the requirements of the Code relating to internal
controls throughout the year under review. This statement describes how the principles
of the Code have been applied in the affairs of the Group.
The Board
The Board currently consists of five members, two of whom are Non-Executive
Directors. Given the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have a Senior
Independent Director.
The Board met on ten occasions throughout the year and all directors were present with
the exception of Mr B Whyte who was unable to attend one meeting and Mr Boyce was
unable to attend one meeting. All major decisions as to the direction and control of the
Group are taken by the full Board. No one Director has unfettered powers of decision.
The Group's day to day operations are managed by the Executive Directors. All
Directors have access to the Company Secretary and any Director needing independent
professional advice in the furtherance of his duties may obtain this advice at the
expense of the Group. The Executive Directors have a one-year rolling service
agreement with the Company.
The Code requires that this report should identify each non-executive director the Board
considers to be independent in character and judgement and whether there are
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the
director's judgement, stating its reasons if it determines that a director is independent
notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear to be
relevant to its determination. In the Board's opinion both Messrs Mitchell and Whyte are
considered to be independent in both character and judgement. Accordingly two of the
five Board members are independent.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to periodic retirement and re-
election by shareholders. In order to comply with the revised Code and the Articles of
Association, the Directors have adopted a policy providing for all directors to submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Accordingly Mr Whyte shall retire, and, being eligible, shall offer himself for re-election.
Mr French, on attaining the age of seventy years shall retire and, being eligible, shall also
offer himself for re-election. Due to his appointment during the period, Mr Coke retires
and being eligible shall offer himself for re-election. A resolution to re-elect Messrs
Whyte, French and Coke is contained with the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on
page 34.
Messrs Whyte, French and Coke have all actively contributed in meetings throughout
the year. Following a formal performance evaluation, the other Board members
recommend that shareholders vote for the re-election of Messrs Whyte, French and
Coke as they believe that their skills, knowledge and overall performance is of continued
benefit to the Company.
Corporate Governance Committees
The Board has established two Committees comprising the Non-Executive Directors
and one Executive Director. The members are:
Audit Remuneration
Robert Mitchell Barry Whyte
Barry Whyte Robert Mitchell
Stephen Coke 
Stephen Coke is invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings.
The Board does not consider it necessary to have a Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Mitchell, met last year to review the audit
process, the published financial information and the effectiveness of external audit and
internal controls.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to review the effectiveness of the
internal control environment of the Group and to monitor adherence to best practice in
corporate governance; to make recommendations to the board in relation to the re-
appointment of the Auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms of
engagement; and to review and monitor the Auditors' independence and objectivity and
the effectiveness of the audit process and provide a forum through which the Group's
Auditors report to the Board. The Audit Committee also has responsibility for monitoring
the integrity of the financial statements and accounting policies of the Group. Committee
members consider that individually and collectively they are appropriately experienced to
fulfil the role required.
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Saffery Champness, the Group's Auditors have direct access to Committee members.
The chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the Annual General meeting to
deal with any questions relating to the accounts.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered the requirement for an internal audit
function and has concluded that given the current state of operations no internal audit
department is required. The Audit Committee is satisfied that division of duties and
responsibilities is adequate, given the company's size.
Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Mr Whyte,
are to:
  recommend to the Board a framework for rewarding senior management, including
Executive Directors, bearing in mind the need to attract and retain individuals of the
highest calibre and with the appropriate experience to make a significant contribution
to the Group; and
  ensure that the elements of the remuneration package are competitive and help in
underpinning the performance-driven culture of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee met once in the year to review remuneration levels across
the company. Remuneration paid to Executive Directors, is in line with that outlined in
the company's AIM Admission Document.
Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. This is an ongoing process designed to ensure
adherence to the Group's policies whilst safeguarding the assets of the Group, in
addition to ensuring the management of the risks faced by the Group. This process has
been in place throughout the period and up to the date of signing this report.
Responsibility for implementing a system of internal controls is delegated to the Finance
Director.
An ongoing process is established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced
by the Group. A formal risk identification and analysis was conducted in the current
financial year.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's objectives. It should be
recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with guidance issued to directors of listed companies, the Directors have
carried out a review of the effectiveness of internal controls as they have operated
during the year.
12 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Internal Control Assessment Process
Risk assessment and the review of internal controls are undertaken by the Board in the
context of the Group's overall strategy. The review covers the key business, operational,
compliance and financial risks facing the Group. In arriving at its judgement of what risks
the Group faces, the Board has considered the Group's operations in the light of the
following factors:
  The nature and extent of risks which it regards as acceptable for the Group to bear
within its overall business objective;
  The threat of such risks becoming a reality;
  The Group's ability to reduce the incidence and impact of risk on its performance;
and
  The cost and benefits to the Group of operating the relevant controls.
Against this background, the Board has split its review into the following areas:
  Corporate strategy;
  Published information, compliance with laws and regulations; and
  Relationships with service providers.
Internal control
The key procedures established with a view to providing effective internal control are as
follows:
  Strategic business planning
Detailed financial projections for the current financial year are prepared and subject
to formal review at least twice a year.
  Performance review
The Directors aim to monitor the Group's performance through the preparation of
monthly management accounts and regular reviews of cash flow projections and the
pipeline of future work.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board and the Directors
are available to enter into dialogue with shareholders. All shareholders are encouraged
to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting during which the Board is available to
discuss issues affecting the Group. In addition the Group maintains a website
(www.riig.co.uk) containing information of interest to corporate and private shareholders.
13 Annual Report and Accounts 2011