 39
ASSOCIATED BRITISH ENGINEERING PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
(AS REFERRED TO IN THE DIRECTORS' REPORT)
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, set out below are details of 
the Company's corporate governance arrangements, including a statement as to how the Company applies the principles 
of Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, together with a statement regarding its compliance with specific 
provisions. Whilst welcoming the principles contained within the Code, the Board considers that it should be recognised 
that what may be appropriate for a large Company may not necessarily be so appropriate for a smaller company and the 
Company's current circumstances.   As a result, the Company has been in compliance throughout the year with the 
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code with the following exceptions:-
  The division of responsibilities between the roles of chairman and chief executive have not been clearly 
established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. This is contrary to provision A.2.1;
  The Company does not have a Nomination Committee, this is contrary to provisions B2.1-B2.2;
  The non-executive directors of the Company have not been appointed for specific terms as required by 
provision B2.3;
  There is no formal training programme for new directors on joining the Board. This is contrary to provision 
B4.2;
  The Board has not undertaken a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and the          
individual directors.   This is contrary to provision B.6.1.
Board of Directors
The Board comprises four non-executive directors, as detailed in the Directors' Report.
In common with other organisations of a similar size, the directors review all the transactions and activities of the 
business. The Board of Directors is responsible for formulating strategy and monitoring financial performance. The 
directors are in frequent contact throughout the year in connection with the Group's business, meet as required and also 
attend one formal Board meeting. The strategies proposed by management of the subsidiary are fully discussed, critically 
examined against the best and long term interests of not only the shareholders, but also employees, customers, suppliers 
and various communities within which the Group operates. During the year, all four serving directors were in attendance 
at the Board meeting.  
The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and control of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters in 
respect of which decisions are reserved to it, covering key areas including strategy formulation, acquisitions or disposals, 
approval of the budget for the subsidiary, financial results, board appointments and proposals for dividend payments.  
The Board has full and timely access to relevant information throughout the Group.  
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for 
ensuring that Board procedures are compiled with.  There is also formal agreed procedure for directors in the furtherance 
of their duties to take independent professional advice as necessary at the Company's expense.
The business address of each of the directors is 9 High Street, Little Eversden, Cambridge CB23 1HE.
The Board is supported by a senior management team which includes the following individuals:
Stewart Davis (65), managing director of BPE.  Stewart has worked for BPE for 50 years, and is qualified as a 
mechanical engineer.  As Sales Director from 1985 he was responsible for negotiating major naval contracts with 
international governments for the supply of spare parts and technical support for vessels supplied by the Ministry of 
Defence.  He was appointed Managing Director in 2007.
Rupert Pearce Gould (61), chairman of BPE.  Rupert is a chartered accountant and has served as an executive director 
and chairman in both the public and private sector. He has been chairman of BPE since 2000. 40
ASSOCIATED BRITISH ENGINEERING PLC 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Non-Executive Directors
The biographies of the directors appear on page 44 and show considerable and varied experience in the business world 
and the City.  The Board has appointed Andrew Beaumont as a senior independent non-executive director. There have 
been no changes in the other significant commitments of the Chairman.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for 
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.  There is also a formal agreed procedure for directors in the 
furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice as necessary at the Company's expense.
Under the Company's Articles of Association, at least one third of the directors retire from office each year.  The retiring 
director is eligible for re-election. 
The role of non-executive directors is a vital element of corporate accountability.  Due to the small size of the Board and 
because there are no full time executive directors, the non-executive directors do carry out certain limited specific 
executive responsibilities.
Nomination 
Appointment to executive director would be fully discussed by the Chairman and the two non-executive directors.  
Potential new non-executive directors are proposed by all the members of the Board in the light of the Company's 
business requirements and the need to have a balanced Board.  Possible candidates are discussed amongst all directors 
before any approach is made to them.
Audit
The Company's audit committee comprises of Mr Andrew Beaumont (Chairman) and Mr Colin Weinberg.  The audit 
committee is to meet at least twice a year to monitor the financial reporting process, including its annual and interim 
accounts; the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls and risk management systems; statutory audit of the 
annual and consolidated accounts; and to review and monitor the independence of the statutory auditor and provision of 
additional services to the Group.
Remuneration
The Company's remuneration committee comprises Mr Andrew Beaumont (Chairman) and Mr Stephen Cockburn.  The 
remuneration committee is to meet at least twice a year and has as its remit the determination and review of, amongst 
others, the remuneration of executive directors and any share incentive plans adopted, or be adopted, by the Company.
Communication with Shareholders
The Board believes it is important to respond adequately to the queries of both private and institutional shareholders. The 
Group responds throughout the year to correspondence from shareholders on a wide variety of issues. 
The Chairman's Statement in the Annual Report contains a business review. An interim business review is also provided 
with the half yearly announcement. The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and 
governance matters.
The Board seeks to ensure that its report and accounts and other financial statements provide a clear assessment of the 
Group's business.  All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions and express their views at the Company's 
Annual General Meeting, at which all directors are available to take questions.  41
ASSOCIATED BRITISH ENGINEERING PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.  These controls 
can only ever provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded against material misstatement or 
loss, that proper accounting records are maintained, and that the information used internally, or for publication, is 
accurate and reliable.  The key procedures, which exist to provide external control, are as follows -
  clearly defined organisation structures with segregation of duties wherever practicable.  Operating and financial 
responsibilities for the subsidiary Company are delegated to the subsidiary's Board and there are limits which 
apply to capital expenditure and significant contracts
  a regular review is undertaken to assess the risks facing the trading subsidiary and to enhance the systems which 
manage the risk identified.  Local management establishes control procedures for each of the risks identified and 
reports whether the key controls have operated effectively
  agreement of Group short term financial objectives and business plans
  review by the Board of monthly Group Financial Statements and monitoring of results against budget.  The 
Board attends regular Board meetings of the subsidiary
  Board control over treasury, taxation, legal, insurance and personnel issues
  The acquisition or disposal of a business may not be completed without the approval of the Board. 
  The operational responsibility for preparing the consolidated accounts is delegated to a third party service 
provider with the Board retaining responsibility for overall content, presentation and final review of the 
consolidated accounts.
Through these mechanisms, Group performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their 
financial implication assessed, control procedure re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
The Board believes that it is not currently appropriate for the Company to maintain an internal audit function due to the 
size of the Group and the manner in which the Board are involved in payment and financial commitment execution.
The Board consider the independence and objectivity of the external auditor on an annual basis, with particular regard to 
non-audit services.  The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year and information on the nature of the non-audit 
fees appear in note 3 to the financial statements.  There were no non-audit fees incurred from the auditor during the year. 
The Board also receive an annual confirmation of independence from the auditors.
GOING CONCERN
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. There have been no changes to accounting policies 
in the year.  The most notable accounting event has been the decrease in the pension scheme deficit based on this year's 
actuarial forecast and mentioned in the Chairman's Statement. The directors have agreed a revised schedule of the 
contributions to eliminate the deficit on the ABE Pension Fund over thirteen years starting from the year ended 31 March 
2010. Based on the Group's budgets and cash forecasts, the Board considers that the Group has sufficient resources to meet 
all necessary outgoings and to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
C Weinberg
Director
26 June 2013