 The Directors recognise the importance of, and are committed to, high standards of corporate
governance. Although compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is not compulsory for
AIM companies, the Directors apply the principles as they consider appropriate to a group of
Revolymer's size, taking into account the recommendations contained in the QCA Guidelines.
The Board was enhanced by the appointment of Julian Heslop as an additional Non-executive
Director with effect from Admission. Immediately following Admission, the Board comprised six
directors, two executives and four non-executives, and reflected a blend of different experience
and backgrounds. The roles of Chairman (which is a non-executive position) and Chief Executive
have been split by the Board and there is a clear division of responsibility between the two. The
Board was pleased to announce that on 13 September 2012 Dr Bryan Dobson was appointed as a
further independent Non-executive Director. Bryan has strong and relevant technical and
commercial experience with which to help contribute towards the development of Revolymer and
he now chairs the Remuneration Committee. The Board considers Jack Keenan, Julian Heslop and
Bryan Dobson to be independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding Jack Keenan's
shareholding in the Group, and share options (all of which were granted prior to Admission).
The Company has established an Audit Committee that comprises Jack Keenan, Robert Frost and
Julian Heslop. Julian Heslop is the Chairman of the Committee. The Audit Committee is required to
meet at least twice a year and is responsible for reviewing the integrity of the financial statements
of the Group, the Group's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group's internal financial controls and risk management processes
including the extent to which internal audit review is required. It also reviews the external auditors'
performance and independence and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment
of the auditors. Between Admission and 31 December 2012, the Audit Committee met twice, during
which meetings it approved a new treasury policy, it oversaw the preparation of the interim
announcement to 30 June 2012, it approved the Group's accounting policies and it oversaw 2012
full year audit preparations. Between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report, the Audit
Committee has met on two further occasions when it approved a business risk assessment and
mitigation policy (and has overseen a review of such risks and mitigating steps by management), it
approved the 2013 budget, it reviewed and approved the Group's internal financial controls and it
reviewed and approved the 2012 Annual Report and associated preliminary announcement. It has
also specifically reviewed and confirmed the independence of the auditors. A high level summary
of the key business risks facing the Group, and the management actions that currently mitigate
them to an acceptable level, is provided below.
19
Corporate governance 20
The Company has established a Remuneration Committee that comprises Jack Keenan, Bryan
Dobson and Julian Heslop. Jack Keenan was the initial Chairman of the Committee and Bryan
Dobson took on this role at his appointment in September. The Committee is required to meet at
least twice a year and is responsible for determining and reviewing with the Board the policy for the
remuneration of the Executive Directors and such other members of the executive management as
it is designated to consider. Within the terms of the agreed policy, it determines the total individual
remuneration of the Executive Directors. The Committee also approves the design of, and
determines targets for, any performance related pay schemes, reviews the design of any share
incentive plans, determines the awards to the Executive Directors and sets the policy for, and
scope of, pension arrangements for each executive director. Between Admission and
31 December 2012 the Remuneration Committee met twice, during which meetings it designed
and set an overall remuneration framework for the management team and employees comprised
of annual salary, annual cash bonus and share based incentive, incorporating the underlying
principle that each component of remuneration is designed to reward employees for different and
distinct contributions that do not overlap. The Remuneration Committee also composed
performance awards in respect of 2012 for the Executive Directors and a pool for rewarding other
employees (allocated by the Executive Directors), and set forward looking incentives for 2013.
Finally, the Company has established a Nominations Committee that comprises Jack Keenan and
Julian Heslop. Jack Keenan is the Chairman of the Committee. The Committee is required to meet
at least once a year and is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the
Board and recommending to the Board any changes required, for succession planning and for
identifying and nominating for approval of the Board candidates to fill vacancies as and when
they arise. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the results of the Board performance
evaluation process, making recommendations to the Board concerning suitable candidates for the
role of senior independent director and the membership of the Board's Committees, and the
BUSINESS RISK MITIGATING MANAGEMENT ACTIONS
COMMERCIAL - risk that management are
unable to execute sufficient licences (or
equivalent transactions) to deliver the Group's
business plan
A portfolio of projects is run in parallel to reduce
the dependence of the business on success in a
single product development programme.
Projects are managed using a systematic,
ongoing review process involving technical,
commercial and other relevant in-house
functions to monitor continued commercial
viability
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY - risk that Group
inventions are not effectively protected, or that
third party intellectual property is infringed
A detailed intellectual property policy and set
of procedures is operated with dedicated in-
house resource as well as the support of
external expert patent and trade mark advisers
FINANCIAL - risk that there are insufficient
financial resources to deliver the Group's
business plan
An appropriate system of internal financial
controls is operated to manage the
deployment of the significant cash resources on
hand following the IPO, which provide a
significant funded runway 
PRODUCTS - risk that faulty or deteriorating
products harm consumers
An in-house regulatory and quality assurance
function with dedicated and appropriately
skilled resource has responsibility for all aspects
of product safety, supported as required by
external expert advisers. Appropriate insurances
are maintained and regularly monitored for
suitability
Corporate governance (continued) re-election of Directors at the annual general meeting. Between Admission and 31 December 2012
the Nomination Committee met once in order to confirm the appointment of Bryan Dobson.
The Board will comply with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules relating to Directors' dealings and will also take
all reasonable steps to ensure compliance with that rule by the Group's applicable employees. The
Company has adopted a code on dealing in securities of the Company and will take all
reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the Directors and relevant employees. The Board will
hold regular meetings at which financial and other reports will be considered and, where
appropriate, voted on.
The Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the historic combination of Chief Financial Officer
and Company Secretary into one appointment. In view of the current size of both the Board and
the Company, the Board believes that it is well served by the advice received in company
secretarial matters by using:
  Mr Robin Cridland (CFO) who has acted as a Company Secretary to public limited
companies during the past 7 years;
  the Company's counsel (Maclay Murray & Spens LLP);
  The Company's broker and financial advisor (Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited);
  the Company's registrars (Capita Registrars Limited); and
  the Audit Committee to oversee risk management.
Conflicts of interest
During the year no Director notified the Board of any conflicts of interest.
Relations with shareholders
Revolymer attaches a high priority to effective communication with both private and institutional
shareholders. The AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders. A business
presentation is made at the AGM and there is an opportunity for shareholders to put questions to
the Directors. Revolymer aims to maintain regular contact with institutional shareholders through a
programme of one to one visits, group meetings and briefings scheduled around significant
commercial developments in the business.
Financial risk factors
The Group's relatively simple structure, principally operating in the UK, and the lack of debt
financing, reduces the range of financial risks to which it is exposed. Monitoring of financial risk is
part of the Board's ongoing risk management process, the effectiveness of which is reviewed
annually. The Group's agreed policies are implemented by the Chief Financial Officer, who submits
financial reports at each Board meeting. The Group has not, to date, used derivative transactions
and it is the Group's policy not to undertake any trading in financial instruments.
Interest rate risk
The Group does not have any committed borrowing facilities as its cash balances are sufficient to
finance its current operations. Consequently, there is no material exposure to interest rate risk.
21 22
Credit risks
The Group's treasury policy is to place funds in short term deposits with a panel of UK financial
institutions rated at least F1/A1/P1 (or equivalent ratings) up to pre-agreed limits.
Cash flow and liquidity risk
The Group presently relies on its invested funds rather than trading receipts to meet its
commitments. The maturity profile of its investments is structured to ensure that sufficient liquid funds
are available to meet current operating requirements, in line with its treasury policy. The Directors
do not consider that there is presently a material cash flow or liquidity risk.
Corporate governance (continued)