 RM plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Page 25
Directors' responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group
and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for
that period. In preparing those financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
- select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
- make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and
- state whether applicable accounting standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group
and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Compliance with the Combined Code
In June 1998 the Hampel Committee and London Stock
Exchange published the Combined Code on corporate
governance. This combines the Cadbury Code on corporate
governance, the Greenbury Code on directors'
remuneration and new requirements arising from the
findings of the Hampel Committee.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the
provisions of the code of Best Practice set out in section 1
of the Combined Code except that the President does not
have a fixed term contract (A.6.1).
The Company has applied the Principles of Good
Governance set out in section 1 of the Code. Further
explanation of how the Principles have been applied 
is set out below and, in connection with Directors'
remuneration, in the relevant section of the 
Remuneration Report.
Board of Directors
The Board consists of two Executive Directors and seven
Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors are
appointed for a fixed term, subject to re-election. They 
can serve a maximum of three terms.
Of the seven Non-Executive Directors, five are considered
to be independent according to the requirements of the
Code: namely John Leighfield, Sherry Coutu, Sir Bryan
Carsberg, John Windeler and Professor Tim Brighouse.
Sherry Coutu is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Board meets eleven times a year and has formally
adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be
brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains
full and effective control over appropriate strategic,
financial, operational and compliance issues. Directors
receive an information pack one week before each Board
meeting which contains background papers on all the
agenda items. Executive managers are regularly invited to
Board meetings to present and discuss strategic topics
with the Directors.
Board Committees
There are three Board Committees, namely Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations, all of which comprise
solely Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee comprises five Non-Executive
Directors, is chaired by Sir Bryan Carsberg, and meets 
at least twice a year. The Company's external auditors 
and the Finance Director normally attend part of these
meetings. It is responsible for reviewing the accounting
policies, internal control assessment and the financial
information contained in the Annual and Interim Reports.
It provides an opportunity for the Non-Executive Directors
to make independent judgements and contributions 
thus furthering the effectiveness of RM's internal 
financial controls.
The Remuneration Committee comprises five Non-
Executive Directors and is chaired by Sherry Coutu. 
It sets the remuneration of RM's Executive Directors 
and senior management. It also considers grants and
performance conditions under the RM Share Option
Schemes and reviews RM's employment strategy generally.
Executive Directors may be invited to attend committee
meetings, but will not be present during any discussion 
of their own pay arrangements.
The Nominations Committee comprises four 
Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by John Leighfield.
It recommends to the Board, candidates for appointment
as Directors.
Relations with shareholders
The Company's Chief Executive Officer and Finance
Director meet regularly with institutional shareholders,
fund managers and analysts as part of an active investor
relations program to discuss long-term issues and obtain
feedback. Private investors are encouraged to participate
in the Annual General Meeting. In order to improve
communications with private investors further, the
Company has set up an investors' relations section within
its website at www.rm.com
Internal control
The Combined Code introduced a requirement on
Directors to review at least annually the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal control and to report to
shareholders that they have done so. The Board attaches
considerable importance to the Group's systems of
internal control and risk management.
Corporate Governance Report Page 26 RM plc Annual report and accounts 2002
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the
process of risk management and internal control in
accordance with the Turnbull Guidance. The Board have
carried out an analysis to identify the major risks that
affect the Group, the impact of those risks and considered
how those risks are managed. The Group has appointed 
a Group Risk Manager who has continued this work and
developed the Group's approach towards risk management
which includes taking action to avoid or reduce each risk.
The Group's internal controls are designed to meet the
particular requirements of the Group and the risks to
which it is exposed. In this context, the controls can
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. The internal controls are
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
The processes to identify, assess and manage the risks 
to the Group's continued success are an integral part 
of the system of internal control. These processes include
systems to assess operational risks, linkage with the
business planning process, monthly forecasting,
appointment of senior managers and controls over capital
expenditure. The ongoing process of enhancing and
improving these processes ensures that business risks
and opportunities are effectively managed.
Strategic risks are formally assessed by the Board during
the annual planning process and steps are taken following
this process to ensure that all such risks are monitored
and managed going forward. The Board delegates
responsibility for operational risks to the Chief Executive
Officer and the senior management team who review 
the effectiveness of internal controls on such risks on 
a regular basis.
The key features of the internal control system that
operated throughout the period covered by the accounts
are described below.
Control environment - The Board has put in place an
organisational structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority to executive
management. Individuals are formally made aware of 
their level of authority and their budgetary responsibility
which enables them to identify and monitor financial
performance. There are established policies 
and procedures, which are subject to regular review. 
The Board of the operating company works within strict
terms of reference and any matters outside those 
terms or the agreed business plan are referred to the 
full Board for decision. The Group's selection and
recruitment procedures are set to exacting criteria and 
the performance management process is supportive 
of these same criteria.
Identification and evaluation of business risks and control
objectives - The Board has the primary responsibility for
identifying the major business risks facing the Group and
developing appropriate policies to manage those risks. 
The Board of the operating company meets weekly with 
an agenda of specific operational measures for review and
meets more formally on a monthly basis to review key
measures and strategic items.
Information systems - Executive managers are required 
to produce a business plan for approval at the beginning 
of each financial year and detailed financial forecasts are
formally compiled quarterly and reviewed by the Board.
Management accounts are produced each month and
results measured against plan and previous year to
identify any significant variations.
Main control procedures - The financial systems and
procedures established lead the Board to a high level of
confidence in the completeness and accuracy of financial
transactions. The well established processes in place and
the level of analytical detail given within the management
accounts facilitate the identification of unreliable data. The
Group's treasury function operates within a defined policy
designed to control the Group's cash and to minimise its
exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Monitoring - The Board has an established Audit
Committee that meets periodically to review reports from
management and Deloitte & Touche, the external auditors,
so as to derive reasonable assurance on behalf of the
Board that financial control procedures are in place and
operate effectively. During the year 2000 an internal audit
function was established which reports directly to the
Audit Committee and which has terms of reference agreed
by the Audit Committee.
Going concern
After making enquiries and taking into account the Group's
cash resources, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
A.J. Robson
Company Secretary
22nd November 2002
Corporate Governance Report continued