 RM plc Annual report and accounts 2008 33
Compliance
The Group has throughout the year complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance June 2006 as published by the
Financial Reporting Council.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Code. Further explanation of how the principles
have been applied is set out in the following text, in connection with Directors' remuneration, in the relevant section of the Remuneration
Report and, in connection with internal controls and principal risks in the relevant section of the Audit Committee Report.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts.
Board of Directors
The Directors who served on the Board during the year are set out in the Directors' Report on page 28; details of Directors' remuneration
are given in the Remuneration Report. Biographical details for currently-serving Directors are provided on pages 26 to 27, showing 
the wide range of knowledge, skills and experience they provide to the Group. 
Until 28 October 2007, the Senior Independent Director was Sherry Coutu. On her retirement, after serving three terms as a Non-Executive
Director, she was succeeded as Senior Independent Director by John Windeler. 
John Leighfield, the Group's Chairman, is not considered independent either by the Company or under the terms of the Code because
he has served on the Board for more than nine years. He was independent at the time of his appointment. The other Non-Executive
Directors who served during the year are all considered independent by the Company and under the terms of the Code. 
Throughout the year the composition of the Board complied with the Code, with at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman,
consisting of Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are exercised by different individuals and the division of responsibilities between 
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been formally defined.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters that are brought to it for discussion and decision. This schedule includes overall
Group strategy, acquisition policy, internal controls, major capital investment and risk management, and is intended to ensure that the
Board maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial and compliance issues and oversees operational activities. 
The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Executive Committee. 
There is an established procedure for all Directors to take independent professional advice, at the expense of the Group, as necessary
in the pursuit of their duties.
Board Committees
There are four Board committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Transactions; each of which, apart from the Transactions
Committee, comprise only Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, the Audit Committee was chaired by Sir Bryan Carsberg; it comprised at least two, and for most of the year three,
Independent Non-Executive Directors (note: RM is a  smaller company' under the terms of the Code). The Audit Committee meets 
at least three times a year. The Company's external auditors, the Chairman, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the
Head of Internal Audit normally attend part of these meetings. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the accounting policies,
internal control assessment and the financial information contained in the annual and interim reports. It provides an opportunity for the
Non-Executive Directors to make independent judgements and contributions thus furthering the effectiveness of RM's internal financial
controls. Further details of the Audit Committee's activities are given in the Audit Committee Report. The terms of reference for the
Audit Committee are published on www.rm.com
During the year the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Sir Mike Tomlinson and comprised four independent Non-Executive
Directors. The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year. Executive Directors and senior managers may be invited to attend
Committee meetings, but will not be present during any discussion of their own pay arrangements. The Remuneration Committee sets 
the remuneration of RM's Executive Directors and senior management. It also considers grants and performance conditions under 
RM's share-based payment schemes and reviews RM's employment strategy generally. Further details of the Remuneration Committee's
activities are given in the Remuneration Report. The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are published on www.rm.com
During the year, the Nominations Committee was chaired by John Leighfield and comprised the Group Chairman and four Independent
Non-Executive Directors. The Nominations Committee recommends to the Board candidates for appointment as Directors. It meets 
at least once a year, with more frequent meetings when the Group is actively selecting Directors. Further details of the Nominations
Committee's activities are given in the Nominations Committee section of this Corporate Governance Report. The terms of reference 
for the Nomination Committee are published on www.rm.com
During the year, the Transactions Committee was chaired by John Leighfield and comprised the Group Chairman plus any one other
Independent Non-Executive Director and any one Executive Director. The Transactions Committee meets at such times as the Chairman
of the Committee requires. During 2008 it met 18 times. The Transactions Committee approves, enters into and executes all deeds and
documents and does everything that is necessary to give effect to any  substantial transaction' that has already been approved 
in principle by the Board. The terms of reference for the Transactions Committee are published on www.rm.com
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE REPORT 34 RM plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Corporate Governance Report continued
Board meetings
There is a formal schedule of nine Board meetings a year. Board members also receive updates about Group activities by email, 
and communicate informally by telephone and email. 
Directors receive a detailed information pack, one week before each Board meeting, which contains background papers on all the
agenda items. Executive managers are regularly invited to Board meetings to present and discuss strategic topics with the Directors.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors present. The Non-Executive Directors, led by the
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, also met to appraise the Chairman's performance.
Directors' attendance
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by the Directors during the year was as follows:
Main Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Executive
T .R. Pearson 8/9---
M.D. Greig 9/9---
R.A. Sirs 9/9---
T . Sweeney 2/2---
Non-Executive
J.P . Leighfield 9/9 - - 1/1
S.L. Coutu 1/1---
B. Carsberg 9/9 3/3 4/4 1/1
J.R. Windeler 8/9 3/3 3/4 1/1
M.J. Tomlinson 9/9 - 4/4 -
T .R.P . Brighouse 9/9 - - 1/1
J. Connell 6/6 2/2 3/3 -
Board effectiveness
The Board has put in place a formal process for annually reviewing its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its Committees. Reviews
are led by the Chairman and use a process agreed by the Board as a whole. Each Board member provides an individual evaluation 
of performance against a series of criteria and general comments on the Board's performance. In 2008, a small number of suggestions
for improvement were identified and these will be implemented forthwith.
An assessment of the effectiveness of individual members of the Board was also carried out.
Executive Committee
During the year , the Executive Committee comprised Tim Pearson (Chairman to 6 June 2008), Terry Sweeney (Chairman from 6 June 2008),
Mike Greig and Rob Sirs. The Committee met weekly, with the Group's Human Resources Director invited to attend. The Executive
Committee is responsible for implementing the strategy set out by the Group Board, preparing strategic proposals to be considered 
by the Board, and providing day-to-day operational management and control for the business.  RM plc Annual report and accounts 2008 35
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee met once during the year, with their main activities being the completion of arrangements to appoint 
Jo Connell as a Non-Executive Director and the appointment of Tim Pearson's successor as Chief Executive. 
The Committee appointed independent search consultants to identify appropriate candidates for the role of Chief Executive. A wide
range of candidates was identified and the final shortlist included both internal and external candidates. The candidates were interviewed 
by a selection panel, comprising John Leighfield, John Windeler and Tim Pearson; Tim was included because of his in-depth understanding
of the Group and its strategy. The panel recommended the appointment of Terry Sweeney, which was unanimously agreed by the
Nominations Committee and the Board. 
Relations with shareholders
RM maintains regular contact with institutional shareholders, fund managers and investment analysts through an active investor relations
programme. The Company was nominated in the Grand Prix for Best Smaller Company Investor Relations category in the 2006 and 
2008 IR Magazine Awards. 
As part of this programme the Group's Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director provide detailed briefings for investment
analysts and institutional shareholders at the time of the Group's interim and preliminary results announcements; hold regular meetings
with analysts, institutional shareholders and fund managers during the year; and typically host two analyst seminars and two investor
seminars during the year. The Group Chairman attends at least one group meeting with investment analysts during the year. The Senior
Independent Director meets with major shareholders as required. The Chair of the Remuneration Committee consults with major
shareholders annually about any significant proposed changes to remuneration policy.
Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting. In order to improve communications with investors 
in general and private investors in particular, the Group maintains a detailed investor relations Web site at www.rm.com/investors
The Board is provided with detailed, independently produced reports providing non-attributable feedback from analysts, institutional
shareholders and fund managers following results announcements and analyst/investor seminars. Discussion of these reports is included
as a formal agenda item at Board meetings. The Board is also provided with regular updates about investor relations activities and
receives analysts' notes about RM as they are published.
All Directors are available at the Group's AGM to address any shareholder questions.
RM has identified a senior manager (the Director of Corporate Affairs) with responsibility for managing the Group's investor 
relations programme.