 14 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2004
corporate governance statement
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code 
The Company has complied throughout the year ended 
31 December 2004 with the principles of good governance
( Principles') and the Code of Best Practice known as the 
July 2003 FRC Combined Code, which is annexed to the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, except that
the Non-executive Directors did not have fixed term contracts
(code provision para. A.7 .2) and that the Board had not
appointed a  Senior Independent Non-executive Director' 
(code provision para. A.3.3) at the beginning of the year. 
Philip Aiken was appointed on 26 March 2004 as the Senior
Independent Non-executive Director. All Non-executive
Directors' contracts include notice periods and the terms 
of the contracts will be reviewed.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is
set out below and, in connection with Directors' remuneration,
in the report of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Group's approach to corporate governance 
The Group has a policy of seeking to comply with established
best practice in the field of corporate governance. In addition,
one of the core values communicated within the Group is 
a belief that the highest standard of integrity is essential in
business. The Group has an express aim of respecting the
needs of shareholders, staff, clients, candidates and contractors. 
Board effectiveness 
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment 
to leading and controlling the Group by: 
- having a Board constitution which details the Board's
responsibility to shareholders for the management of the
Group's affairs. It exercises direction and supervision of the
Group's operations throughout the world and defines the 
line of responsibility from the Board to the Chief Executive
and the Executive Directors in whom responsibility for the
executive management of the business is vested;
- the Board retaining specific responsibility for agreeing the
strategic direction of the Group, the approval of accounts,
business plan, budget and capital expenditure, the review 
of operating results, the effectiveness of governance
practice and risk management, and also the appointment 
of senior executives and succession planning;
- the provision of appropriate training to all new Directors at
the time of appointment to the Board, and by ensuring that
existing Directors receive such training as to be equipped
with the skills required to fulfil their roles; and
- attendance by all Directors at Board meetings, other than
Philip Aiken, who was present at six of the eight meetings
held during the year.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and 
Chief Executive 
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing
responsibilities for the Board and running the Company's
business by: 
- appointing Timothy Barker as Non-executive Chairman;
- appointing Robert Walters as Chief Executive; and
- clearly defining in writing the respective responsibilities 
of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Board balance 
The Group's commitment to achieving a balance of Executive
and Non-executive Directors is shown by: 
- the Non-executive Directors comprising more than half 
of the Board of seven Directors; 
- the four Non-executive Directors being considered to act
independently of management and free from any business
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise
of their independent judgement; and
- Timothy Barker, Philip Aiken and Graham Luff being
considered to be free from any other relationship which
could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement.
Russell Tenzer has been a Non-executive Director within the
Robert Walters Group since 1989 and as a result, the Board
considers that Russell does have a long-standing relationship
with two of the Executive Directors. 
The Board has formally considered this relationship and has
concluded that the exercise of his independent judgement
since his appointment to the Board of Robert Walters plc 
in July 2000 has not been affected. 
Transparency of Board appointments
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating
candidates to fill Board vacancies and for making
recommendations on Board composition and balance. 
The members of the Committee are the Non-executive
Directors - Timothy Barker (Chairman), Philip Aiken, 
Graham Luff and Russell Tenzer.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference
which are available on request. The procedure for appointments
to the Board includes the requirement to specify the nature 
of the position in writing and to ensure that appointees have
sufficient time available to meet the demands of the position.
The terms of the contracts for the Non-executive Directors 
are available upon request. 15 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2004
Regular re-election of Directors 
As disclosed in the Directors' Report, all Directors are subject
to re-election every three years as required by the provisions
of the Code of Best Practice. Prior to re-nomination, the
Nomination Committee will conduct an assessment of the
performance of each retiring Director. The Board will not
approve such a re-nomination if the performance of the retiring
Director is not considered satisfactory. 
Timeliness and quality of Board information 
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly
briefed on issues arising at Board meetings by establishing
procedures for: 
- distributing Board papers in advance of meetings and
considering the adequacy of the information provided before
making decisions; 
- adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when Directors
have concerns about the information available to them; and
- making the Company Secretary responsible to the Board 
for the timeliness and quality of information. 
Performance evaluation
The annual performance appraisal of the Board and its
Committees was further developed during 2004 and is
considered by the Board to meet the requirements of the
Combined Code. A detailed questionnaire was completed by
each Director and individual discussions took place between
the Chairman and each of the Directors and, in the case 
of the Chairman, with the Senior Independent Non-executive
Director. This process did not identify any material issues 
that needed to be addressed. 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders 
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of
objectives between the Company and its institutional
shareholders by: 
- making annual and interim presentations to institutional
investors; 
- meeting shareholders to discuss long term issues and obtain
their views; 
- communicating regularly throughout the year; and 
- regular meetings of the Board being used as the forum 
to ensure that Non-executive Directors are updated on the
views of major shareholders that have been communicated
to the Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed Philip Aiken as the Senior
Independent Director of Robert Walters plc. Philip Aiken 
is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot 
be addressed through the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting 
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to
communicate with private investors and encourage their
participation by: 
- inviting shareholders to submit questions in advance; and
- providing a balanced and understandable assessment of the
Group's position and prospects. 
Internal control 
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal control. A review has been
completed for the year ended 31 December 2004 in accordance
with the recommendations of the Turnbull Report. The Group's
system of internal control is designed to safeguard the Group's
assets and to ensure the reliability of information used within
the business and for publication. Such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters
which are required to be brought to it or its duly authorised
Committees for decision, aimed at maintaining full and
effective control over appropriate strategic, financial,
operational and compliance issues on an ongoing basis. 
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with
clearly defined responsibilities and delegation of authority. 
The Board constitution clearly sets out those matters for 
which the Board is required to give its approval. 
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the need for a dedicated
internal audit function. However, at present the Audit Committee
has determined that given the size and nature of the Group's
operations a separate internal audit function is not required.
This decision will be regularly reviewed in the future. The Board
seeks to improve the robustness of internal checks and balances
within the Group on an ongoing basis, and to implement controls
and processes to address areas of potential improvement that
come to the attention of the Board.
A process has been in existence throughout the period that
this report relates to in order to assess the risks within the
business and to report and monitor such risks. The Group 
has an Audit Committee which meets regularly and receives
reports identifying the key internal controls in existence 
and also any risks identified within the business. The Audit
Committee then evaluates the effectiveness of those controls
and the management of key risks within the Group. 