 Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
The Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 
December 2009 with the Code provisions set out in section 1 
of the 2008 FRC Combined Code.
The Company has applied the principles set out in section 
1 of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the 
supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported 
above. Further explanation of how the Main Principles 
have been applied is set out below and, in connection with 
Directors' remuneration, in the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Report of the Audit Committee.
The Group's approach to corporate governance
The Group has a policy of seeking to comply with established 
best practice in the field of corporate governance. In addition, 
one of the core values communicated within the Group is 
a belief that the highest standard of integrity is essential 
in business. The Group has an express aim of respecting 
the needs of shareholders, employees, clients, candidates, 
contractors and suppliers.
Board effectiveness
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to 
leading and controlling the Group by:
  having a Board constitution which details the Board's 
responsibility to shareholders for the management of the 
Group's affairs. It exercises direction and supervision of the 
Group's operations throughout the world and defines the 
line of responsibility from the Board to the Chief Executive 
and the Executive Directors in whom responsibility for the 
executive management of the business is vested;
   the Board retaining specific responsibility for agreeing the 
strategic direction of the Group, the approval of accounts, 
business plan, budget and capital expenditure, the review of 
operating results, the effectiveness of governance practice 
and risk management, and also the appointment of senior 
executives and succession planning;
   a high level of attendance by the Directors at the eight Board 
meetings held during the year. There was one apology from 
Andrew Kemp;
   the provision of appropriate training to all new Directors at 
the time of appointment to the Board, and by ensuring that 
existing Directors receive such training as to be equipped 
with the skills required to fulfil their roles; and
   delegating responsibilities to sub-committees: Audit 
Committee; Remuneration Committee; and Nomination 
Committee.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and  
Chief Executive
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing responsibilities 
for the Board and running the Group's business by:
   appointing Philip Aiken as Non-executive Chairman;
   appointing Robert Walters as Chief Executive; and
   clearly defining in writing the respective responsibilities of the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Board balance
The Group's commitment to achieving a balance of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors is shown by:
   the Non-executive Directors comprising more than half of the 
Board of Directors;
   the Non-executive Directors being considered to act 
independently of management and free from any business 
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgement; and
   Martin Griffiths, Lady Judge and Andrew Kemp being 
considered to be free from any other relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement.
Russell Tenzer has been a Non-executive Director of the 
Robert Walters Group since 1989 and Philip Aiken has been a 
Non-executive Director of the Company since July 2000. As a 
result, the Board considers that Russell and Philip do have a 
long-standing relationship with two of the Executive Directors.
The Board has formally considered these relationships and has 
concluded that the exercise of their independent judgement 
since their appointment to the Board of Robert Walters plc in 
July 2000 has not been affected.
As Philip Aiken and Russell Tenzer have now been Directors 
of the Company for over nine years, they are subject to 
re-election on an annual basis. Consequently, they will both 
retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for 
re-election.
Transparency of Board appointments
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating 
candidates to fill Board vacancies and for making 
recommendations on Board composition and balance.  
The members of the Committee are the Non-executive 
Directors and Robert Walters. During the year, the Nomination 
Committee met once to consider and approve the re-election 
at the AGM of Alan Bannatyne, Russell Tenzer and Martin 
Griffiths. There was one apology from Lady Judge.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference 
which are available on request. The procedure for 
appointments to the Board includes the requirement to 
specify the nature of the position in writing and to ensure that 
appointees have sufficient time available to meet the demands 
of the position. The terms of the contracts for the Non-
executive Directors are available upon request.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
16
Robert Walters plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 
2009 Regular re-election of Directors
As disclosed in the Directors' Report, all Directors are subject 
to re-election every three years, or every year in the case of 
those Non-executive Directors who have held office for more 
than nine years, as required by the provisions of the Code 
of Best Practice. Prior to re-nomination, the Nomination 
Committee will conduct an assessment of the performance 
of each retiring Director. The Board will not approve such a 
re-nomination if the performance of the retiring Director is not 
considered satisfactory.
Timeliness and quality of Board information
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly 
briefed on issues arising at Board meetings by establishing 
procedures for:
   distributing Board papers in advance of meetings and 
considering the adequacy of the information provided before 
making decisions;
   adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when Directors 
have concerns about the information available to them; and
   making the Company Secretary responsible to the Board for 
the timeliness and quality of information.
Performance evaluation
The annual performance appraisal of the Board and its 
Committees is considered by the Board to meet the 
requirements of the Combined Code. A detailed review was 
completed by each Director and individual discussions took 
place between the Chairman and each of the Directors and, 
in the case of the Chairman, with the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director. Subsequently, there was a full Board 
discussion of the matters that were raised and a process 
to ensure that the decisions taken were appropriately 
implemented. This process did not identify any material issues 
that needed to be addressed.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding 
of objectives between the Company and its institutional 
shareholders by:
   making annual and interim presentations to institutional 
investors;
   meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and 
obtain their views; and
   communicating regularly throughout the year; and regular 
meetings of the Board being used as the forum to ensure 
that Non-executive Directors are updated on the views of 
major shareholders that have been communicated to the 
Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed Lady Judge as the Senior 
Independent Director. Lady Judge is available to shareholders 
who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the 
Chief Executive.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to 
communicate with private investors and encourage their 
participation by:
   inviting shareholders to submit questions in advance; and
   providing a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group's position and prospects.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's 
system of internal control. A review has been completed by the 
Board for the year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with the 
recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management. 
It is based primarily on reviewing reports from management 
to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, 
managed and controlled and whether any significant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for 
more extensive monitoring. The Audit Committee assists the 
Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, 
the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings 
or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant. 
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has 
not been considered appropriate.
The Group's system of internal control is designed to safeguard 
the Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of information 
used within the business and for publication. Such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement  
or loss.
The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters 
which are required to be brought to it or its duly authorised 
Committees for decision, aimed at maintaining full and effective 
control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues on an ongoing basis.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with 
clearly defined responsibilities and delegation of authority. The 
Board constitution clearly sets out those matters for which the 
Board is required to give its approval.
Audit Committee and Auditors
A separate Report of the Audit Committee is set out on 
page 18 and provides details of the role and activities of the 
committee and its relationship with the external auditors.
17