 21
Corporate Governance Statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2004
The Code recommends that the Audit Committee consists
exclusively of Non-Executive Directors; for part of the 
year Mr Johnson served on the Committee.
The Code recommends that the Chairman of the Group 
should not sit on the Audit Committee; during the year 
Mr Brown served on the Committee.
The Code recommends evaluation of the Board's 
performance; in the light of the restructuring exercise 
which has taken place and the forthcoming retirement of
Mr Heller such action was not considered appropriate at 
this time.
The statement below describes how the principles, identified
by the Code, are applied by the Group. 
Directors
The Board consists of Mr Brown, Chairman, two 
Non-Executive Directors, Mr Heller and Mr Mowinckel, 
and Mr Johnson and Mr Slater, Executive Directors. 
Mr Heller is considered by the Board to be independent 
of management and free of any relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of his
independent judgement. 
Biographies of the Board members, appearing on
page 17 of the Directors' Report, indicate the levels and
range of business experience which are essential to
manage effectively a business of the size and complexity
of that operated by the Group.
The Board meets at least eleven times each year and
more frequently when business needs require. The Board
has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and
the requirement for Board approval on these matters is
communicated widely throughout the senior management
of the Group. These include matters such as material capital
commitments, commencing or settling major litigation,
operating budgets, significant financing, business acquisitions
and disposals, appointments to the boards of subsidiary
undertakings, approval of business strategy, code of ethics
and business practice, remuneration of senior management
and corporate activities relating to all listing matters.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take
independent professional advice if necessary and at the
Company's expense. This is in addition to the access
which every Director has to the Company Secretary. 
The Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that
Board procedures are followed.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow
Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely
access is given to all relevant information. In the case of
Board meetings this consists of supporting documentation
as appropriate including regular business progress reports
and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate
governance are practised throughout the Group as a fundamental part of
discharging its responsibility to protect and enhance shareholder value and
long term financial performance. Throughout the year the Group has been in full
compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules
of the UK Listing Authority ('The Code') except for the following points below: 22
Any Director appointed subsequent to an Annual
General Meeting in any year is required, under the
provisions of the Company's articles of association, to retire
and seek re-election by shareholders at the next Annual
General Meeting. The articles also require that up to one
third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek
re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors
required to retire will be those in office longest since their
previous re-election unless a Director wishes to retire and
does not seek re-election.  
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement
of the Company's remuneration policy is set out in the
Remuneration Report below. The members of the
Remuneration Committee and principal terms of reference
of the Committee appear on page 24. 
Executive Directors abstain from any discussion or
voting at full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee
recommendations which have a direct bearing on their own
remuneration package. The details of each Executive
Director's individual financial package are set by the
Committee in line with the policy adopted by the Board.
Communication with
Shareholders
The Company places a great deal of importance on
communication with its shareholders. The Annual Report
and Financial Statements are available to all shareholders
and to other parties who have an interest in the Group's
performance. Regular communication with shareholders
also takes place via the website www.rts-group.com.
The Directors seek to build a mutual understanding of
objectives between the Company and its institutional
shareholders through regular meetings and presentations.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at
the Company's Annual General Meeting and any other
Company meetings.
Audit and Internal Control 
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the
auditors in connection with the financial statements are
explained on page 20 and the Directors' statement on
going concern appears on page 19. 
Overall strategy on risk and control:
The Board considers risk management and internal
control on a regular basis throughout the year.  A Risk
Management Committee, comprising two Non-Executive
Directors and an Executive Director has been established. 
During the year its activities have included a review of
the Group's risk framework and its monitoring functions and
an assessment of all major risks together with their related
risk management responses and, where appropriate,
corrective programmes. The Risk Management strategy is
established and monitored by the Board with the objective
of setting clear guidelines in relation to the levels of
retained risk acceptable to the Group. Procedures for the
Group assessment of all business risks are subject to
continuous review, monitoring and improvement.
Due to the open environment in which the Company
carries out its daily activities, it is anticipated that any
employee would feel free to bring major matters of concern
to the attention of the appropriate Officers of the Company.
The Directors are responsible for the Company's
system of internal financial control which is designed to
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.  The Directors have in place
internal financial controls as follows:
Financial reporting:
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group
Corporate Governance Statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2004 23
businesses culminates in an annual budget which is
approved by the Board. Results for the Company and for
its constituent businesses are reported monthly against the
budget to the Board and revised forecasts for the year are
prepared each quarter.
Performance review:
The business units are subject to periodic in depth
review by Group Management during the year. Actual
results are compared with budget, prior year and rolling
financial targets, with overall performance judged on the
achievement of a series of key performance indicators.
Corporate plan:
Executive management submit an annual business
plan to the Board for approval. The plan is a summation of
each business unit's quantified assessment of its planned
trading performance in respect of the forthcoming financial
year, taking into account the economic environment and
the sensitivities underlying the projections.
Internal financial controls assurance:
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the
Group's internal financial controls.  Senior executives have
prepared formal Board reports on the operation of those
elements of the system for which they are responsible. 
Due to the size of the Group it is not currently considered
necessary to operate a formal internal audit function. 
The Directors will review this requirement annually as 
a minimum.
Capital investment:
There are clearly defined guidelines for capital
expenditure and the requirement for Board approval. 
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and
review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence
requirements where businesses are being acquired. 
Post investment appraisals are performed for 
major investments.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee which is comprised of 
Mr Brown, Chairman of the Committee and Mr Heller, 
Non-Executive Director, meets at least twice a year. Its
objective is to give formal support to the Board in fulfilling
its obligations to shareholders to maintain standards of
management and financial control and reporting
throughout the Group that are consistent with regulatory
requirements and current best practice. For details of the
relevant financial experience of the members of the
Committee see page 17.
The external auditors attend meetings of the Audit
Committee and have direct access to the Chairman of 
that Committee.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost
effectiveness of both the internal financial procedures and
the external audit under review. The independence and
objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a
regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-
audit fees. The analysis between audit and non-audit fees
for the period under review appears at Note 5 to the
financial statements.  The non-audit fees were paid in
respect of tax advice, financial due diligence reviews, 
and reports required for shareholder documents and are
not considered by the Committee to affect independence
or objectivity.