 Corporate governance
Rok annual report 03
50
Combined Code
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate practice
and is committed to conducting the Group's operations in
accordance with the best principles of corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Remuneration report on pages 52
to 55, describes how the Company has applied the Principles of
Good Governance and Code of Best Practice dated June 1998 (the
Combined Code ). A new Combined Code was published in July
2003 applicable to accounting periods beginning on or after 1
November 2003.The Board is reviewing the new Code and will
report against its requirements in next year's statement.This report
also describes those matters covered by the new Code with which
the Company already complies.
The Board
Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Group
and for directing and supervising the Company's business.This
includes establishing the long term objectives and setting commercial
and financial strategy.The Board approves the Group's business plan,
the annual budget, acquisitions and interim and annual results.All
directors are kept appraised of important developments affecting the
Group and receive full information monthly in relation to the
Group's operations, finances, risk factors and business performance.
A revised schedule of matters reserved for the Board has recently
been adopted.
Composition
The Board currently comprises three executive and three non-
executive directors. Garvis Snook as Chief Executive and Ashley
Martin as Finance Director have executive responsibilities across the
Group. Mark Kay is directly involved in the Group's development
division, Rokeagle.There is a clear division between the roles of Bob
Carlton-Porter as Chairman and Garvis Snook as Chief Executive.
The Board considers Louis Sherwood and Gillian Camm to be
independent non-executive directors.While Louis Sherwood has
been a non-executive director for more than nine years, the Board
believes he remains independent in view of his wide business
experience and perceptive judgement. Louis Sherwood is the senior
independent director.
The Board met formally ten times during the year and there was full
attendance with the exception of Mark Kay on two occasions.The
directors have access to the company secretary and there is an
agreed procedure for directors to take independent advice, if
necessary at the Company's expense. New directors are 
provided with appropriate training as soon as practical after
appointment. It is planned to implement new procedures during the
year for conducting performance evaluation of the Board.
Board committees
The Board has long established Audit and Remuneration Committees
and established a Nomination Committee in December 2003. New
terms of reference for these committees have recently been adopted
and are available for inspection on the Company's website or at the
Company's registered office.
Audit committee
The Audit Committee comprises the three non-executive directors
and is chaired by Louis Sherwood. It meets at least three times a
year, with full attendance on each occasion during 2003. It is
responsible for reviewing the Group's interim and annual financial
statements, the scope and effectiveness of the external audit and for
receiving the reports of the auditors.The Committee advises the
Board on the appointment of the external auditors and reviews their
fees and any non-audit work to monitor their objectivity and
independence.The Committee considers the effectiveness of the
Group's internal controls and meets periodically with the head of
the Rok Assurance function. It also deals with any matters which may
be brought to its attention by the auditors.
Nomination committee
The Nomination Committee consists of the three non-executive
directors, together with Garvis Snook, and is chaired by Gillian
Camm. It will meet at least twice a year and is responsible for
regularly reviewing the structure and composition of the Board and
for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of
new directors. External search consultants and advertising are used
as appropriate in the recruitment of directors and senior executives.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the three non-executive
directors and is chaired by Gillian Camm. It meets at least three
times a year and there was full attendance during 2003.The
Committee's responsibilities include setting remuneration policy and
determining the remuneration packages for the executive directors
and other senior executives. It is also responsible for monitoring
best practice in remuneration and related issues.
Shareholder communications
The Board gives priority to establishing and maintaining good
relationships with all shareholders to develop a clear understanding
of the Group's strategy, performance and potential.The Chief
Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and
major current and potential shareholders. Feedback on such
meetings and shareholder views generally are communicated to the
Board as a whole.The Annual and Interim Reports are seen as
important communication tools and other information is released
through the Stock Exchange. Shareholders are also sent the
Company's regular in-house newsletter, Rokface.
BACK section 31-60_17/3  17/3/04  4:15 PM  Page 50 Rok annual report 03
51
There is also a comprehensive investor relations section on the
Company's website - www.rokgroup.com - which includes annual
and interim reports, institutional presentation documents and Stock
Exchange releases.
The Annual General Meeting is held in April and is attended by the
full Board, including the Chairmen of the three Board committees
who will be available to answer shareholders' questions.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of
internal control which are reviewed in accordance with the
Combined Code. Such systems, however, are designed to manage
rather than eliminate risk and can only give reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Board has
maintained the process adopted for its review of the effectiveness of
internal control.This process identifies the risk categories that
threaten the achievement of the Group's business plan objectives, the
factors contributing to these risks and the controls and early warning
systems in place.These are assessed and appropriate action and
responsibility identified and allocated.These actions will then be
monitored through the year.
In the year, the Board established a new function, Rok Assurance', to
focus on systems, controls and processes, risk identification and
business improvement throughout the organisation.The head of Rok
Assurance reports directly to the Chief Executive, with a functional
reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Each division operates a comprehensive rolling three year business
planning process which is reviewed and approved by Group
management. In the Autumn of each year annual operating, cashflow
and capital expenditure budgets at a divisional level are prepared
linked to the business plan objectives.The consolidated Group
budget that results is reviewed by the Board prior to its adoption.
Monthly financial results are reviewed by both the executive
directors and the full Board and compared to prior years and
budgets with variances highlighted and explained.A full re-forecast of
the result for the year is updated monthly.
The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the
internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Combined Code compliance
The Group has complied throughout the year with the Combined
Code.
Going concern statement
The directors are required under the Combined Code to consider
whether or not to adopt the financial statements on the basis that
the Company and the Group are going concerns.As part of its
normal business practice the Group prepares annual and longer-term
plans and, in reviewing this information and in particular the 2004 -
2006 three-year plan and the 2004 budget, the directors believe that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources for the
foreseeable future.Therefore the Company and the Group continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and Group at the end of the financial year
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing
those financial statements, the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  follow applicable accounting standards;
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection
of fraud and other irregularities.
BACK section 31-60_17/3  17/3/04  4:15 PM  Page 51