 35
ACAL plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Audit committee report
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee (the Committee ) during the year under review. A number of regulatory
changes have occurred during the year, not least the Committee's responsibility to ensure, on behalf of the Board, that this Annual
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee and external auditors
The Committee is comprised of me, Richard Brooman, as Chairman, together with Graham Williams and Henrietta Marsh.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director attend meetings, although no Executive Director has a right of attendance.
The Board is satisfied that the members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience. Indeed, both Graham Williams
and I are qualified chartered accountants.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and results of the audit, the accounting policies and systems of internal control of
the Group as well as the effectiveness and cost-efficiency of the audit. In addition, it considers and monitors the independence and
objectivity of the auditor as well as the extent of any non-audit services provided by the auditor. The interim statement, the preliminary
announcement of results and the annual financial statements are considered by the Committee prior to their approval by the Board. As
Chairman of the Committee, I maintain direct communication with the external auditor, independently of the management of the
Company.
The Committee met three times during the year and its principal activities during the period included reviews of:
  the interim and full year results;
  the risk management and internal controls systems of the Group;
  the scope and results of the external audit;
  the continued independence and objectivity of the external auditor, including an understanding of the external auditor's own
standards and procedures for maintaining their independence and reviewing the level of non-audit services provided by the auditor,
in order to ensure that these were not significant enough to prejudice their independence and objectivity;
  the performance of the external auditor and making a recommendation as to their re-appointment;
  the arrangements whereby staff may raise, in confidence, any concern they may have about possible improprieties.
With reference to the review for a formal internal audit function, the Committee considers that there is no current need for such a
function, given the internal controls and risk management processes that are in place.
The Committee considers appointment or reappointment of the external auditor, including the timing of rotation of the incumbent audit
partner on an annual basis. Ernst & Young LLP have served as the Company's auditor since 2005. The last audit tender was carried out in
2009.
With regard to recommending the re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee has recommended that the Board presents a
resolution to shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP . This followed an assessment
of the quality of service provided, including the qualification of the external auditor, the expertise and resources made available to the
Group, auditor independence and the effectiveness of the audit process. The decision was based on the consideration of reports issued
by the external auditor and feedback from executive management.
Part of at least one Committee meeting a year is held with the Non Executive Directors and representatives from the external auditor
present, thereby providing an opportunity for any concerns to be raised without executive management present.
As Chairman of the Committee, I report to the Board on any significant matters arising from the activities of the Committee.
Financial reporting and significant judgements
As part of the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have
been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements. Support from the external auditor is sought
when undertaking these assessments. 36
ACAL plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Audit committee report continued
The main issues assessed in the year under review are set out below:
Impairment of goodwill and other non current assets
A consideration of the carrying value of goodwill and the assumptions underlying the impairment review. The judgements in relation to
goodwill impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying the calculations of the value in use of the business being tested for
impairment, primarily the achievability of long term business plans and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals
A review of the acquisition accounting for material acquisitions and disposals during the year, including the appropriateness of the
assumptions used in assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Valuation of the legacy defined benefit pension scheme
A review of the appropriateness of the assumptions used in valuation of the legacy defined benefit pension scheme under IAS 19R -
Employee Benefits.
The recognition and valuation of judgemental provisions
A determination of the appropriateness of the assumptions used in the recognition and valuation of judgemental provisions which relate
mainly to onerous contracts, severance indemnities, acquisition earn-out arrangements, long term bonus plans and general restructuring
and integration.
Presentation of exceptional items
A review of the appropriateness of items disclosed as exceptional in the supplementary income statement information and note to the
consolidated financial statements, in line with the Group's stated policy.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above had been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Directors,
appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and that the disclosures made in this Annual Report and Accounts were
appropriate.
Internal controls
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes a requirement that the Board maintains sound risk management and internal controls
systems to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Company's assets. This requirement covers all controls including: operational;
compliance and risk management; as well as financial controls. Formal guidance for Directors on internal controls was published by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in September 1999 and subsequently revised in October 2005 by The Financial
Reporting Council, following which the Board approved a framework for the implementation of this guidance. The relevant procedures
have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's risk management and internal controls systems and for reviewing their effectiveness,
at least annually.
While no system of controls can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Group's systems are designed to
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In establishing and reviewing the systems, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, has
regard to the significance of the risks involved, the likelihood and severity of a loss being incurred and the costs of the relevant controls.
The foundation of the Group's systems is the value placed on the quality and integrity of its employees. Its principal components are:
  a clearly defined organisation structure with short and clear reporting lines;
  an ongoing process for the identification, regular review and management of the principal risks and issues affecting the business, both
at Group and operating levels;
  a regular review of the principal suppliers and customers of the Group, and how each impacts upon the Group's business;
  a comprehensive planning process, which starts with a strategic plan and culminates in an annual budget and a long term plan;
  regular forecasting throughout the year of orders, sales, profitability, cash flow, working capital and balance sheets;
  a regular review of actual performance against budget and forecasts;
  clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of major new investments and commitments;
  a requirement for each operating company to maintain a system of internal controls appropriate to its own local business environment.
The Finance Department is responsible for ensuring that the process for producing financial information delivers accuracy and is in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, it is responsible for the timely distribution of financial information, both
internally and externally. Key financial and operational performance is reported on a weekly and/or monthly basis and measured against
both the Board approved budget and management's rolling forecasts. A review of the financial statements is completed by management
to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected. All financial information published externally by
the Group is approved by the Board.
The above procedures encompass Acal plc and its subsidiary companies.
The Board receives regular submissions from management concerning the matters set out above and other matters relevant to internal
controls and the identification, evaluation and management of risk. In addition, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, has conducted a 37
ACAL plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Audit committee report continued
specific annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance
controls and risk management systems. The Group has embedded risk management and internal control into the operations of the
business and continues to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has effective procedures in place to deal with conflict situations.
Terms of Reference
The Committee has written terms of reference, which are available on request and are on the Company's website (www.acalplc.co.uk).
Richard Brooman
Chairman of the Audit Committee
5 June 2014