  
 
 Page 9 
Ross Group Plc & Subsidiaries 
 
Corporate Governance Statement 
for the Year Ended 31 December 2013 
 
The company is pleased to present its report on Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code. The 
Board strives to comply with the high standards set by the UK Corporate Governance Code as incorporated in the UK 
Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority. The Code requires the company to make a two part disclosure 
statement, firstly on how the principles of the code are applied and secondly confirmation of compliance or explanation 
of any reason for deviation from the Code. Throughout the year the Company has complied with the main principles of 
the Code. 
  
 Application Of The Principles Of The UK Corporate Governance Code 
  
The Board 
There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which in the year under review consisted of four directors. The 
Chief Executive, Mr Pettitt who is normally based overseas, also serves as Chairman.  The Board is fully aware that is 
contrary to Code provision A.2.1, which states that the roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by 
one individual.  The Board is of the opinion that, given the current size of the business, and also Mr Pettitt's undoubted 
and considerable knowledge, experience and contacts in the Group's field of operations, that the shareholders interests 
are best served by this arrangement.  The Board is active in its management of the Company and meets and 
confers regularly on business matters arising.  These frequent and robust discussions serve to ensure that no one 
individual has unfettered powers of decision. 
  
During 2013 Mr Pettitt was supported by three other directors: W L Wade and M J Simon, both appointed in April 
2009, and S C Mehta appointed in December 2009.  Mr Simon has acted as Company Secretary since April 2009.   
  
The non-executive director Mr Simon is considered to be independent as there are no circumstances or relationships as 
described by Code provision B.1.1 which apply to his appointment. The Group's definition of a non-executive director 
is one who considers the interest of all the shareholders and this is demonstrated during the board meetings.  As part of 
his role, the non-executive director constructively challenges decisions and helps develop strategies and plans for the 
benefit of the Board. 
  
At the time of writing, the Board is actively engaged in a process of selecting an individual with the appropriate 
experience and skill to serve as a second non-executive director on the Board. 
  
Board Procedure 
The Board is responsible for decisions concerning strategic and financial planning and matters involving the overall 
direction of the company. Management will seek Board approval of the annual budget and rolling business plan.  
Reforecasts are presented as updates to the budget throughout the year to account for variances and provide forward 
vision. The operational business decisions are taken by local management with reference to the Board where necessary. 
  
The Board has established separate committees for:  Appointments (Chaired by Mr Pettitt); Audit (Chaired by Mr 
Simon) and Remuneration (Chaired by Mr Simon).   
  
All of the directors are subject to periodic re-election and the full board considers all appointments. A director will 
require re-election within a maximum period of three years. 
  
Biographies of the Board are included in the Financial Statements. These indicate a wealth of experience, which is 
essential in effectively managing the activities of the Group. In addition to this the board members, where appropriate, 
attend seminars and courses of their respective professional organisations. 
 
Attendance 
Board meetings are held regularly throughout the year.  Due to the location of the directors, the meetings are often held 
electronically.  The Board is supplied with all the information relevant to the meeting in a timely manner and in a form 
and quantity appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties during the meetings. 
  
The Board has now established procedures in respect of access to the Company Secretary and the Directors have access 
to consult the Company Secretary when required. 
   
 
 Page 10 
Ross Group Plc & Subsidiaries 
 
Corporate Governance Statement 
for the Year Ended 31 December 2013 
 
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions to the Board during the Company's Annual General 
Meeting and the Board communicates with the Shareholders via the notices and other papers relating to the Annual 
General Meeting. The Company also welcomes and responds to written communication from its shareholders. The 
Company website allows shareholders to contact the directors by email. 
  
The Board has carried out a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its performance and of its committees and 
individual directors. This evaluation covers contribution, commitment and the manner in which board related duties 
have been completed. The chairman has discussed the review with individual directors where necessary to ensure the 
Board operates as an effective unit. The performance review was conducted using recognised evaluation processes. The 
independent non-executive director has conducted a performance review on the chairman which included the 
consideration of the views expressed by the executive directors.   
  
Internal audit and control 
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are set out 
in the audit report. The directors have overall responsibility of the effectiveness of the Group's whole system of internal 
control, including financial and other controls, which are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures that the directors have established to provide effective 
internal financial control are as follows: 
  
Financial Reporting 
There is a comprehensive system for reporting performance. During the course of the year, a one year rolling budget is 
prepared for each company within the Group and a consolidated budget is prepared for the whole Group. The Board 
then formally approves the budgets. The results are then reported regularly to the Board for their consideration and 
forecasts are revised accordingly. 
  
Quality and Integrity of Personnel 
The integrity of the Group is maintained through the appointment of experienced and professional staff and the 
application of appropriate policies and procedures. 
  
Capital Investment 
The Group has set procedures for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, appraisals and review of the 
required expenditure, approvals at the right levels of authority and the commissioning of independent professional 
advice where appropriate. 
  
Professional Advice 
Professional advice is usually sought on contentious and disclosure issues, this being as a result of discussions during 
the Board Meetings. During the year the Chairman can seek independent professional advice in relation to matters 
affecting the Group. 
  
The Group has an ongoing system for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group 
which has been in place for the whole of the year under review up to the date of approval of the annual report and 
accounts and which is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it continues to accord with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control during the 
year from information provided by the management and the Group's external auditors. It must be recognised that such a 
system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance, and in that context, the review revealed nothing which, 
in the opinion of the directors, indicates that the system was inappropriate or unsatisfactory. 
 
The Group has no formal internal audit function and the Board has determined that there is no need for one. The Board 
considers that internal audit is dealt with in other ways and the situation is regularly reviewed. 
 
Going Concern 
The directors confirm that after making the appropriate enquires, they are of the opinion that the Group as a whole has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore have prepared the 
Financial Statements on a going concern basis.   
 
 Page 11 
Ross Group Plc & Subsidiaries 
 
Corporate Governance Statement 
for the Year Ended 31 December 2013 
 
External Audit and Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee during 2013 comprised of the non-executive director, Mr Simon, as well as Executive 
Directors Mr Mehta and Mr Wade. It met periodically to review the adequacy of the Group's internal control systems, 
accounting policies, corporate governance policies and compliance with applicable accounting standards and to 
consider the appointment of the external auditors and to review their fees. Everett & Son is invited to attend these 
meetings. The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and 
obtain external professional advice as is necessary. 
  
  
By order of the Board 
  
  
  
  
Barry Richard Pettitt 
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 
29 April 2014 
 
 