  
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REMUNERATION REPORT 
 
 
 
 
The group is required to confirm its compliance with The Combined Code as incorporated in the UK 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. The Board makes every effort to ensure compliance 
and where any areas are identified which might give cause for concern action is taken to adopt the 
principles of the Code to ensure the maximum amount of compliance for a listed group of its size.   
 
The group has complied apart from Code provision A.3.1 which requires that at least one third of the 
Board should consist of non-executive directors. The group at present has only one non-executive 
director, who is a Chartered Accountant and a small shareholder of the Group.  
The group continues to actively seek to appoint additional non-executive directors of the correct 
experience and calibre.  Furthermore whilst the future strategy of the Group continues to develop, the 
board feels that it is essential that any additional non-executive director is brought on board with the 
correct skill-sets to enhance the overall abilities of the board. The improvement in the results and 
financial standing of the Group should assist with appointing additional non executive directors and 
thus strengthening the board.  
The Board  
There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which receives such information as is 
required to properly fulfil its duties.  
The board comprises the chairman and managing director (A C C Ma), the deputy managing director 
(T Wilkinson) one non-executive director (M J Simon) and two further executive directors (M A B 
Binney and R Lee).  
Although there is no separate chairman and managing director the division of responsibility between 
those two roles is dealt with by the deputy managing director, who is permanently based in the UK, 
having responsibility for the managing director role on a day to day basis.  
The board is of the opinion that taking into account the number of members on the board a 
Nomination Committee is currently not required. With the exception of the non-executive director 
who is on a one-year appointment at a fixed fee, all of the other directors are subject to periodic re-
election and the full board considers all appointments. A director will require re-election within a 
maximum period of three years. 
As mentioned above the board has one non-executive director who is a member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. As an ongoing part of the reorganisation process the Group is committed 
to re-examine the constitution of the board and to recruit at the earliest opportunity non-executive 
directors as necessary .The Group's definition of a non-executive director is one who considers the 
interest of all the shareholders and this is demonstrated during the board meetings.  
Biographies of the board are included in the Financial Statements. These indicate a wealth of 
experience, which is essential in effectively managing the activities of the Group. In addition to this 
the board members, where appropriate, attend seminars and courses of their respective professional 
organisations.  
The board meets every two to three months and there is a full board meeting twice a year. With the 
exception of A C C Ma, R Lee and M A B Binney, who attend only the full board meetings (this is as 
a result of the directors b eing based overseas) all of the other directors attend each of the these 
meetings. The overseas based directors participate in board meetings by conference call if they are not 
present in the UK.  
 Page 7  
 
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REMUNERATION REPORT  (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 
An agenda is prepared prior to each meeting and this would normally cover areas of the Group's 
finance operations and personnel matters. All current operating, financial and strategic information is 
submitted to the Board together with representations from the divisional managers. The chairman 
ensures that all members of the board are properly briefed on issues arising at the meetings through the 
prepared agendas, post meeting circulars and opportunities for questions during the meetings. 
Additional information can be obtained at any time from the other executive directors.  
The Board has now established procedures in respect to access to the Company Secretary and the 
Directors have access to consult the Company Secretary when required.  
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions to the Board during the Company's 
Annual General Meeting and the Board communicates with the Shareholders via the notices and other 
papers relating to the Annual General Meeting. The Company also welcomes and responds to written 
communication from its shareholders. 
Remuneration Policy  
The Board has in place a Remuneration Committee, comprising the non executive director and an 
executive director, to determine the remuneration of the Board.  
With the exception of the deputy managing director and the non-executive director, the other members 
of the current board do not receive remuneration at the present time. The remuneration of the deputy 
managing director and the non executive director is discussed and recommended by the committee and 
ratified by the full Board. The remuneration at present comprises only annual salary packages with no 
additional remuneration elements. The total of salaries paid in the year to 31 December 2003 was  
 54,889(2002: 49,020) of which  27,106(2002: 41,820) was paid to Mr A Eman, 
 19,592(2002: Nil) to Mr T Wilkinson and  8,190(2002: 7,200) was paid to Mr M Simon.  
No director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of 12 months. Mr T Wilkinson is 
entitled to a notice period of one month which would attract compensation of  5,833, for loss of 
office. 
The Group does not operate a director's share option scheme or a long-term incentive scheme. 
Internal audit and control  
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the Financial 
Statements are set out on page 11 to the Financial Statements.  
The directors have overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the Group's whole system of internal 
control, including financial and other controls, which are designed to provide reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key procedures that the directors have 
established to provide effective internal financial control are as follows:  
Financial Reporting  
There is a comprehensive system for reporting performance. During the course of the year, a one year 
rolling budget is prepared for each company within the Group and a consolidated budget is prepared 
for the whole Group. The Board then formally approves the budgets. The monthly results are then 
reported to the Board for their consideration and forecasts are revised accordingly.  
 
 
   
  Page 8   
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REMUNERATION REPORT  (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 
Quality and Integrity of Personnel  
The integrity of the Group is maintained through the appointment of experienced and professional 
staff and the application of appropriate policies and procedures.  
Capital Investment  
The Group has set procedures for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, appraisals and 
review of the required expenditure, approvals at the right levels of authority and the commissioning of 
independent professional advice where appropriate.  
Professional advice is usually sought on contentious and disclosure issues, this being as a result of 
discussions during the Board Meetings. During the year the Chairman can seek independent 
professional advice in relation to matters affecting the Group.   
 
The group has an ongoing system for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group. The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control 
during the year from information provided by the management and the Group's external auditors. It 
must be recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance, and in 
that context, the review revealed nothing which, in the opinion of the directors, indicates that the 
system was inappropriate or unsatisfactory.  
The Group has no formal internal audit function and the Board has determined that there is no need for 
one.  
Going Concern  
The directors confirm that after making the appropriate enquires, they are of the opinion that the 
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future and therefore have prepared the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.  
  
External Audit and Audit Committee  
The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive director and an executive director. Although this 
does not meet the provision of code 3.1, the spirit of the provision is in force and as stated above the 
Board is seeking to recruit additional non-executive directors during 2004.  
The Audit Committee meets periodically to review the adequacy of the Group's internal control 
systems, accounting policies, corporate governance policies and compliance with applicable 
accounting standards and to consider the appointment of the external auditors and to review their fees. 
Everett & Son is invited to attend these meetings. The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to 
investigate any activity within its terms of reference and obtain external professional advice as is 
necessary.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  Page 9  
ROSS GROUP PLC 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND REMUNERATION REPORT  (CONTINUED) 
 
 
 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
The Board, through local management, ensures that the Group addresses those corporate social 
responsibilities which are recognised as being of prime importance to the company. The responsibility 
for CSR rests with the Deputy Managing Director who will bring to the Board any major issues which 
require their approval and updates the Board as required. The views of shareholders and interested 
external parties are considered when developing the ongoing policy to CSR. 
The Group considers the following areas of CSR to have been addressed and agree with the policy 
adopted by its management: 
  The development of a culture and environment which suits the retention and recruitment of 
the highest calibre of staff. To ensure the all staff are trained to the appropriate standard 
required to fully meet their job specifications. 
  The establishment of a framework within which health and safety at work is of prime 
importance and is given the appropriate consideration on all occasions. 
  The appropriate sourcing and consuming of product to minimise any detrimental affect on the 
environment and to support re-cycling where possible.  
  Responding to the needs of its customers to ensure complete satisfaction. 
  To support the local community and develop a close relationship within its area of operation. 
The Group will continue to enhance its approach to CSR to ensure that it supports the principles as it 
expands its range of activities and welcomes any suggestions on how it can improve in this area.  
By order of the Board  
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________ 
 
A C C Ma  
Chairman  
 
15th April 2004 
 
 
 
 
   
  Page 10  
 