 14 annual report and financial statements 2003
Corporate Governance
Compliance with the
Combined Code
In July 2003 The Combined Code On
Corporate Governance  was issued
and it will supersede and replace the
Combined Code issued by the Hampel
Committee on Corporate Governance
in June 1998. It derives from a review
of the role and effectiveness of non-
executive directors by Derek Higgs
and a review of audit committees by 
a group led by Robert Smith. The new
code establishes a number of new
principles for companies to comply
with or provide an explanation where
they diverge from the code. The new
code is applicable to reporting periods
beginning on or after 1st November
2003. 
royalblue is committed to high
standards of corporate governance. 
In respect of the year ended 31st
December 2003 the Company has
complied with The Principles of Good
Governance set out by the Financial
Services Authority in Section 1 of the
Combined Code with the exception
that there was only one independent
non-executive director. A search for
two independent non-executive
directors has been initiated. The
Board believes that it is well advanced
in meeting the additional corporate
governance requirements for the
reporting period that commenced 
on 1st January 2004. 
The Board
The Company is controlled through 
the Board which at 31st December
2003 comprised the chairman, two
executive directors and three non-
executive directors. After formal
review, the Board has determined 
that due to length of service only 
one of the non-executive directors is
independent according to the terms
defined by the new Combined Code
and a search for two independent non-
executive directors has been initiated
by the Nominations Committee (see
below) using an outside firm of
recruitment consultants. 
The Board meets formally on a regular
basis to review trading performance
and forecasts, to review strategy,
policy and risk and to oversee
appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2003 the Board met on seven
scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, several impromptu Board
Meetings occurred to consider
specific issues. The Board is
responsible for the Group's system 
of corporate governance. The Board
delegates operational control to the
executive directors. A procedure
exists to allow the directors to seek
independent legal advice in respect 
of their duties at the Company's
expense where the circumstances are
appropriate. All directors have access
to the Company Secretary for his
advice and services. The following
committees deal with specific aspects
of the Group's affairs:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which is chaired
by CM Amies, comprises the non-
executive directors, CM Amies and LH
Liebman. It has met twice with the
external auditors during the year. The
Chairman and executive directors
were invited to attend for part of these
meetings. The committee reviews the
interim and annual reports from the
external auditors and has reviewed
the representation letters in respect 
of the annual audit. The committee
has met and reviewed the terms of
reference, scope, programme and
reports of the internal audit function.
The committee focuses the activity 
of the internal audit function on those
areas where they consider there to 
be the greatest risk.
Nominations Committee
During the year the Board formed a
Nominations Committee. It currently
comprises CM Amies, JR Hamer 
and CJF Aspinwall. The committee 
is undertaking the search for new
independent non-executive directors
and will formally report to the Board
with its recommendations.
Dialogue with Shareholders
The Company values the views of its
shareholders and recognises their
interests in the Company's strategy
and performance. The Chief Executive
and Finance Director hold briefing
meetings with analysts and
institutional shareholders, primarily
following the announcement of interim
and preliminary results but also at
other times during the year as may 
be suitable. The Chief Executive and
Finance Director provide feedback 
to the Board from these briefing
meetings. Communication with private
investors is through the Annual
Report, the Interim Report and the
Annual General Meeting. Financial 
and other information is made
available on the company's web site,
www.royalblue.com, which is regularly
updated. The Board undertakes and
commissions additional research
activity to ensure that it has a good
understanding of the views of major
shareholders. During the year the
Chairman and Senior Non-Executive
Director visited several of the major
shareholders and the Association of
British Insurers (ABI) to discuss
corporate governance, remuneration
and other subjects. It is expected that
such visits will be undertaken in the
future as and when required.
Feedback from these visits was
provided to the Board. The Board also
obtains formal feedback from analysts
and institutional shareholders through
the Company's PR adviser and
financial adviser. 15 annual report and financial statements 2003
Corporate Governance
Going Concern
Having reviewed the future plans 
and projections for the business, the
directors believe that the Company
and its subsidiary undertakings have
adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Internal Control
The Board is ultimately responsible for
the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that
directors review the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal
controls, including those of an
operational and compliance nature, 
as well as internal financial controls. 
The Board is of the view that there is
an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the Group's
significant risks and that this has been
in place for the period under review
and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report. The Board's
agenda includes a regular item for
consideration of risk and control, and
any actions that may be considered
necessary, and it receives reports
thereon from the executive directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters
reserved for the decision of the Board
that covers key areas of the Group's
affairs. The schedule includes
activities such as acquisitions 
and disposals, material financial
commitments and the release 
of price sensitive information. 
Management is responsible for the
identification and evaluation of
significant risks applicable to their
areas of business together with the
design and operation of suitable
internal controls. These risks are
assessed on a continual basis and
may be associated with a variety of
internal or external sources including
competition, control breakdowns,
disruption in information systems,
natural catastrophe and regulatory
requirements. A process of control
assessment and reporting is
established and defined in the Group's
Quality Management System. This
system is independently audited to
ISO quality standard 9001:2000
(TickIT) on a regular basis. There 
are clearly documented internal
procedures in place and these include
authority limits. The treasury function
operates within guidelines established
by the Board. 
A comprehensive budgetary process
is completed once a year and is
reviewed and approved by the Board.
An updated forecast is regularly
prepared throughout the year. The
operating results are reported monthly
to the Board and compared to the
budget and latest forecast as
appropriate. The Company reports 
to its shareholders twice a year. 
Auditor Independence
The Board has considered the issue 
of external auditor independence and
is satisfied that independence has
been maintained. During the year
there was a change of Audit Manager
due to the length of service of the
previous manager. During the period
non-audit work undertaken by the
auditor has been limited to the
preparation of tax returns, preparation
of monthly payroll for one region and
tax compliance advice. Board
approval is required before the
external auditors can undertake any
work outside of these activities.
The Audit Committee has considered
the independence of the internal audit
function and is satisfied that
independence has been maintained.
Directors' Responsibilities
UK company law requires the directors
to prepare financial statements for
each financial year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of
the Company and Group and of the
profit or loss for that period. In
preparing those financial statements,
the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies
and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates
that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting
standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for
keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial
position of the company and to 
enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 1985. They have
general responsibility for taking such
steps as are reasonably open to them
to safeguard the assets of the Group
and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.