 www.rurelec.com 15
Our Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
Policy Statement
The Board is committed to applying high 
standards of corporate governance and 
integrity to all our activities. The Company is 
not required by the rules of the AIM market 
of the London Stock Exchange to comply 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(June 2010) (the Code ). However, the 
Board has been briefed on the Code and is 
accountable to the Company's shareholders 
for good corporate governance and therefore 
seeks to comply with the Code in so far as is 
practicable as a smaller company.
Internal Controls
The Directors are responsible for the Group's 
systems of internal control. Whilst no risk 
management process or systems of internal 
control can completely eliminate the risk of 
material misstatement or loss, the Group's 
systems are designed to provide the Directors 
with reasonable assurance that problems 
are identified in a timely manner and dealt 
with appropriately. The Board considers that 
there have been no substantial weaknesses 
in financial controls resulting in material loss, 
contingencies or uncertainties and thus 
disclosable in the accounts. The Board has 
considered the need for an internal audit 
function and has concluded that there is no 
current need for such a function.
Board Composition and 
Independence
The Board currently comprises five members 
made up of a Non-Executive Chairman, three 
Executive Directors and one Non-Executive 
Director. The Board is responsible for the 
overall direction, strategic objectives and 
key policies for reviewing performance of 
the Company as well as approving major 
capital expenditure, potential acquisitions and 
financial matters. The Board meets regularly 
and has a schedule of business reserved 
to it including raising new capital, entering 
into financing facilities for projects, treasury 
policies and approval of annual operating 
budgets and monitoring of key risks. The 
Board met eight times during 2012. External 
advice is available to the Directors if they 
consider it necessary. The Chairman and 
Non-Executive Director met twice during the 
financial year without the Executive Directors 
being present.
The Chairman of the Board is Andrew Morris, 
who is also an Executive Director of another 
company. The other Non-Executive Director is 
Larry Coben. Both are regarded by the Board 
as independent in character and judgement.
The Executive Directors are Peter Earl, who 
is Chief Executive, Elizabeth Shaw, who is 
Finance Director, and Marcelo Blanco, who 
has special responsibility for regional financing 
in Latin America. All Directors are involved in 
significant decisions.
Shareholder Relations
The Group values the views of its 
shareholders and recognises their interest in 
the Group's strategy and performance, Board 
membership and quality of management. 
It therefore holds regular meetings with 
and gives presentations to its institutional 
shareholders to discuss objectives.
Corporate Governance Statement
The Annual General Meeting (AGM ) is used 
to communicate with private investors with 
whom dialogue is encouraged. Additional 
information is supplied through the circulation 
of the interim report and the Annual Report 
and Accounts. The Company maintains up-
to-date information on the investor section of 
its website www.rurelec.com.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Andrew 
Morris and Larry Coben who are both Non-
Executive Directors and is chaired by Andrew 
Morris. Both Mr Morris, who is an accountant, 
and Mr Coben have recent and relevant 
financial and commercial experience.
The Committee's remit is to review financial 
reporting practices, internal financial controls 
and internal and external audit policy 
including the appointment of the Company's 
Auditor. During the year, the Audit Committee 
met twice to review the draft half year and 
annual financial statements.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises 
Larry Coben and Andrew Morris and is 
chaired by Larry Coben. The Remuneration 
Committee reviews the remuneration policy 
for the Executive Directors and for senior 
management. The Executive Directors 
determine the remuneration arrangements 
for the Non-Executive Directors. No Director 
may participate in decisions regarding his 
own remuneration. Details of the Directors' 
remuneration can be found in Note 8c.
Appointment of Directors
The Nomination Committee presently 
comprises Andrew Morris as Chairman and 
Larry Coben. The Committee is responsible 
for monitoring the composition of the Board 
and meets to make recommendations to 
the Board on all new Board appointments 
and succession planning. The Board has not 
used external consultants in the appointment 
of Directors. All Directors are subject to re-
election by shareholders in accordance with 
the Company's Articles of Association.
Health, Safety and Environmental 
Protection Policy
The Group is committed to compliance 
with all relevant laws and regulations and 
continues to assess its operations to ensure 
protection of the environment, the community 
and the health and safety of its employees. 
The Group maintains appropriate procedures 
to ensure that all activities are carried out 
in compliance with safety regulations, in 
a culture where the safety of personnel 
is paramount and which recognises 
environmental sustainability and respect for 
cultural and heritage issues.
Share Dealing Code
The Company has a Share Dealing 
Code which covers dealings by Persons 
Discharging Managerial Responsibilities 
(PDMRs ). The Company's code complies 
with the provisions of the Code and restricts 
dealings in shares during designated closed 
periods and at any time when they are in 
possession of unpublished price sensitive 
information.
Statement of Non-Compliance
The Non-Executive Directors are all 
considered to be independent in character 
and judgement. However, in view of the 
size of the Board, Andrew Morris currently 
chairs the Audit Committee as he has recent 
relevant financial experience although the 
Company recognises that it is not able to 
comply with the Code in this respect.
Susan Laker
Company Secretary
7 June, 2013 RURELEC PLC  Annual Report 2012 Stock code: RUR 16
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
To the members of Rurelec PLC
We have audited the financial statements 
of Rurelec PLC for the year ended 31 
December, 2012 which comprise the 
consolidated and parent company statements 
of financial position, the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income, and company 
statements of cash flows, the consolidated 
and company statements of changes in 
equity and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs ) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company's 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company's 
members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor's report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company's members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of 
Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors' 
Responsibilities Statement set out in the 
Group Directors' Report, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board's (APB's ) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
A description of the scope of an audit  
of financial statements is provided on the 
APB's website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion, the financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of 
the group's and of the parent company's 
affairs as at 31 December, 2012 and of the 
Group's profit for the year then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union; 
 have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Emphasis of matter
We draw attention to the disclosure made 
in note 19 to the financial statements 
regarding the uncertain outcome of the 
parent company's ability to recover the 
compensation of  51.5 million for the 
nationalisation of Guaracachi. The ultimate 
outcome of this matter cannot presently 
be determined, and no provision for any 
adjustments that would result from a 
settlement at less than the carrying amount 
have been made.
Opinion on other matter 
prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Group Directors' Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following matters where the Companies Act 
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
 the parent company financial statements 
are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of Directors' 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
 we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit.
Christopher Smith
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
7 June, 2013