 The Board is committed to establishing and
maintaining high standards of corporate governance;
the process by which the Group is directed and
managed, risks are identified and controlled and
effective accountability assured. The following
statement is intended to describe how the Group has
applied the principles of the revised Combined Code
on Corporate Governance (the Code ), which applied
to the Group for the period under review. It also
explains the reasons for any areas of non-compliance
with Section 1 of the Code.
The Board
The Board comprises two non-executive directors and
three executive directors. The non-executive directors
are considered to be independent. All directors are
required to stand for re-election at least every three
years.
All the members of the Board are equally
responsible for the management and proper
stewardship of the Group. The non-executive directors
are independent of management and, other than
described in the directors' remuneration report and
note 25 to the accounts, free from any business or
other relationship with the Company or Group. The
non-executive directors are able to bring independent
judgement to issues brought before the Board.
During the period under review, the directors
considered that two non-executive directors were
sufficient to maintain an appropriately balanced
board, given the size of the Company.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and
more frequently where business needs require. The
Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision and the requirement for Board approval on
these matters is communicated widely throughout the
senior management of the Group. This includes
matters such as business acquisitions, appointments to
subsidiary company boards, material capital
commitments and commencing or settling major
litigation. Prior to each meeting directors are sent an
agenda together with additional information,
including financial reports, required for the meeting.
The Board has delegated responsibility in a number of
areas to three sub-committees.
The audit, remuneration and the nomination
committees each comprise the two non-executive
directors and the chief executive. Each committee is
chaired by Nigel Wayne who has also been nominated
by the Board as the Group's senior independent
director.
Directors have access to the advice and services of
the company secretary and may take, at the
Company's expense, independent professional advice.
During the nine month period ending 30 June 2005
there were six Board meetings, two meetings of the
audit committee, two meetings of the remuneration
committee and no meetings of the nomination
committee. All meetings were fully attended with the
exception of three Board meetings relating to the
approval of pre-circulated documents, which were not
attended by Nigel Wayne and Tim Ryan.
The audit committee
The audit committee meets at least twice a year to
review the financial results, the findings of the external
independent auditors and the Group's internal control
systems. It also considers the Group's financial
accounting procedures and policies as well as the cost-
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the
external auditors by monitoring the level and
appropriateness of any non-audit work provided by
them.
The members of the audit committee are
Jane Cavanagh, Nigel Wayne and Tim Ryan.
The remuneration committee
The committee is responsible for the remuneration of
the executive directors. It advises the Board on the
broad framework for executive remuneration and
determines, on behalf of the Board, the individual
remuneration packages. The policies adopted together
with details of the directors' remuneration and service
contracts terms are set out in the directors'
remuneration report on pages 59 to 63. The
committee meets on an ad hoc basis as necessary.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own
remuneration, whether determined by the committee
or, in the case of the non-executives, by the Board.
The members of the remuneration committee are
Jane Cavanagh, Nigel Wayne and Tim Ryan.
SCi Entertainment Annual Report & Accounts 2005 55
Corporate governance The nomination committee
The nomination committee is responsible for
reviewing the composition and structure of the Board
and for recommending Board appointments and
interviewing potential candidates. The committee
meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The members of the nomination committee are
Jane Cavanagh, Nigel Wayne and Tim Ryan.
Operational management
The executive directors are supported by a team of
senior managers who are responsible for assisting in
the development and achievement of the Group's
corporate strategy, business plans and budgets and for
reviewing operational and financial performance. The
team, together with the executive directors are
responsible for agreeing and monitoring policies and
other matters not reserved for the Board.
Relations with shareholders
The executive directors meet regularly with
institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts
and are available to answer questions from private
shareholders. Communication with all shareholders is
facilitated by the issue of full year and interim reports,
which, together with other corporate information and
press releases, are available on the Company's website:
www.sci.co.uk.
The Annual General Meeting provides a forum for
all shareholders to raise issues with the directors. The
notice convening the meeting is normally issued at
least 20 working days in advance and separate
resolutions are proposed on each substantially
separate issue.
Risk management and internal controls
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable,
but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. As part of the Board's ongoing
review and involvement with joint ventures, they also
give consideration to the adequacy of their internal
controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group, in compliance
with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code (the Turnbull
Report) published in September 1999. This process,
which is tied closely to operations, is regularly
reviewed by the Board. The key procedures that the
directors have established to ensure risk management
and internal controls are effective are as follows:
Risk identification
The Group has identified its major risks and has
policies in place to avoid and mitigate those risks. All
senior members of staff participate in this process and
the results are reported to the Board.
Operational risks
Operational management are responsible for the
identification and evaluation of significant risks
applicable to their area of business and, in conjunction
with the Board, for designing and operating suitable
internal controls. The senior management team, which
includes the executive directors who report directly to
the Board, are responsible for monitoring and
controlling all operational risks.
The Board regularly reviews risk summaries so that
prompt action can be taken in an appropriate manner.
In addition, the internal control process is supported
by:
(a) a comprehensive financial control and rolling
forecast system;
(b) a flat management structure which facilitates
open and timely communication;
(c) sophisticated project management systems to
coordinate and control key development and
publishing activities;
(d) an experienced legal function that supports the
Group's business needs; and
(e) a programme of commercial insurance covering
key risks including intellectual property matters,
product liability and business interruption.
The Board has considered the need for an internal
audit facility and has determined that the scale and
nature of the Group does not justify a dedicated
function at the present time. However, given the recent
changes to the Group, the internal control systems will
be further reviewed during the current financial year.
SCi Entertainment Annual Report & Accounts 2005 56
Corporate governance continued Compliance status
During the period under review the Company
complied with the provisions of the Code except as
follows:
(a) there is currently no formal procedure for
training newly appointed directors;
(b) non-executive directors have previously been
awarded share options;
(c) non-executive directors are not appointed for
fixed terms but, as with executive directors, retire
by rotation approximately every three years;
(d) the chief executive's service contract contains a
three-year notice period;
(e) the chief executive is a member of the
remuneration and audit committees and hence
these do not consist of at least three independent
non-executive directors;
(f) the Company does not currently have a chairman
and the position is maintained by Jane Cavanagh
as both CEO and chairman;
(g) the Board has yet to implement a self-evaluation
process.
The reason for non-compliance with item (b) is
given in the directors' remuneration report. For the
period under review, the directors considered the
Code provisions relating to the other exceptions listed
above to be inappropriate for the nature and size of
the Company. The Board intends to review these
issues in the light of the increased size and complexity
of the Group following the acquisition of Eidos plc.
Details of directors' remuneration and related
matters are set out in the directors' remuneration
report on pages 59 to 63.
External audit matters
Independence
The audit committee has sole responsibility for
assessing the independence of the external auditors,
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP . Each year the committee
undertakes to:
  Seek reassurance that the external auditors and
their staff have no family, financial, employment,
investment or business relationship with the
company. To this end the committee requires the
external auditor and their associates to confirm this
in writing, and detail the procedures which the
auditor has carried out in order to make this
confirmation.
  Check that all partners engaged in the audit process
are rotated at least every five years.
  Assess the likely impact on the auditors'
independence and objectivity before awarding
them any contract for additional services. It is
company policy to require the auditors to tender
for all non-audit assignments where the fee is in
excess of  100,000.
  Have as a standing agenda item auditor
independence issues at each audit committee
meeting.
Going concern
The directors confirm that, after making enquiries,
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the accounts.
SCi Entertainment Annual Report & Accounts 2005 57
Corporate governance continued