 26    SeaEnergy PLC     Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013    
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
SeaEnergy, as an AIM listed Company, is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code) published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012. However, the Board recognises the 
importance of sound corporate governance and ensures that the Company has adopted policies and procedures 
which reflect those principles of good governance considered appropriate to the Company's current size and 
structure.
Directors
The Board is currently comprised of three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of 
the current Directors are presented on pages 12 and 13.
D Sigsworth and D Laing are considered to be Independent Non-Executive Directors. D Laing is the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board is responsible for setting overall Group strategy, policy, monitoring Group performance and authorising 
significant transactions. The Board meets not less than four times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision. Directors may join certain board meetings by telephone. All Directors have full and timely 
access to information and may take independent professional advice at the Group's expense.
Attendance Record at Meetings
2013
Eligible
2013
Attended
2012
Eligible
2012
Attended
D Sigsworth 9 7 10 10
J Aldersey-Williams 9 9 10 10
S Bertram 9 9 10 10
C Moar (resigned 18 June 2013) 4 4 10 10
M Comerford (appointed 29 August 2013) 3 2 - -
D Laing 9 9 10 10
S Lampe 9 7 10 10
Board Committees
The Board has three standing committees. These Committees are comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors 
who take no part in the discussion of their own remuneration. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is currently chaired by D Sigsworth. The other member is D Laing.
The Audit Committee determines the terms of engagement of the Group's External Auditors and, in consultation 
with the Auditors, the scope of the audit. The Audit Committee receives and reviews reports from management 
and the Group's Auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts and the accounting and internal control 
systems in the Group. The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to, and oversees, the relationship with the 
Group's Auditors. The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and meets with the Group's Auditors at least 
once a year. Executive Directors may attend by invitation.
The External Auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements. They review and test the 
systems of internal financial control and data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to 
express their audit opinion. They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial 
position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors. The Committee reviews 
the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by the External Auditors each year to satisfy itself that there 
is no effect on their independence. Details of this year's fees are given in note 16. The Committee is satisfied that 
the External Auditors are independent. SeaEnergy PLC     Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013   27
The Audit Committee monitors the performance of the External Auditors on an ongoing basis, with input from the 
Finance and Commercial Director and other key members of the finance team. Following such an assessment, the 
Committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken. The Committee also makes a recommendation 
to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the External Auditors.
As a part of its preparations to obtain ISO 9001 recognition, the Group is establishing an internal audit function. 
Initially this function will focus solely on matters of quality but it may be expanded to cover financial matters if 
appropriate, as the Group expands. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is currently chaired by D Laing. The other members are D Sigsworth and S Lampe.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the scale and structure of the Executive Directors' remuneration and the 
terms of their service or employment contracts, including share option schemes, long-term incentive plan and other 
bonus arrangements. The remuneration and terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the 
entire Board. No Director or manager of the Company may participate in any discussion or any decision regarding 
his own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee also administers all incentive and bonus arrangements 
adopted by the Company from time to time.
The Remuneration Report is presented on pages 29 to 31 and contains a statement of remuneration policy 
and details of the remuneration of each Director.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is currently chaired by D Sigsworth and meets as required. The other members are  
D Laing and S Lampe. 
The Committee's remit is to propose to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, 
and to consider Board succession plans. Directors appointed by the Board in the course of the year must retire 
and offer themselves for reappointment at the next AGM. 
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group. Management identify risks, the likelihood of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and 
the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks to an acceptable level.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal financial control to 
safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group' s assets. Such a system can provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and correctly recorded, and that material 
errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period. The system, which has 
been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report, comprises the following main elements, all 
of which are reviewed by the Board:
  An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
   Appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
   Established procedures for budgeting and capital expenditure.
   Monthly reporting of actual performance compared to budget, reviewed by the Board quarterly.
   Rolling monthly forecasts for the financial year.
   The Group reports to shareholders on a half yearly basis to ensure timely reporting of financial results.
Investor Relations
Communications with investors are given high priority. The Company keeps its institutional shareholders up to 
date with its business and objectives, and obtains their views on the Company, by means of periodic presentations. 
Additionally the Company is ready to respond appropriately to particular issues or questions that may be raised by 
investors. All shareholders are sent the Annual Report and the Interim Report and can also elect to receive all press 
releases, many choosing to receive this information by email. 28    SeaEnergy PLC     Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013    
The Company has a web site, www.seaenergy-plc.com, which is regularly updated and contains a wide range 
of information about the Company including share price information, Annual Report, Interim Report and press 
releases. It also contains a section providing answers to investors' frequently asked questions. Group subsidiaries 
R2S and SeaEnergy Ship Management also operate web sites with a more customer-oriented focus - www.r2s.co.uk 
and www.seasm.com. Similar information about Lansdowne can be found at www.lansdowneoilandgas.com.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with investors and encourages them to attend. 
The Board aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are available to answer 
questions. The Chief Executive gives a short presentation on the business and its trading position. Shareholders 
are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally following the meeting. 
Whenever possible, the Company complies with best practice in ensuring that the Notice of the AGM is dispatched 
to shareholders at least 20 working days ahead of the meeting.
Directors' Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
Directors have elected to prepare the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRSs') as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company, financial performance of the Group and cash flows 
of the Group for that period. In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to:
   select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8,  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors' and then apply them consistently;
   present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information;
   provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable 
readers to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position 
of the Group and Company and performance of the Group; 
   state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
  make judgements and estimates that are responsible and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Group' s and Company' s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Group and of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the SeaEnergy PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors. The work 
carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept 
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
D Sigsworth 
Chairman, Audit Committee
16 April 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED