 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 22
Audit Committee Report
Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board from
the non-executive Directors. The main role and responsibilities of the
Committee include:
  considering and making recommendations to the Board regarding the
appointment of the external auditor, the audit fee, and any questions
of the resignation or dismissal of the external auditor;
  considering (if appropriate) the degree of any work undertaken by 
the external auditor for the Group other than the statutory audit;
  reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements before
submission to the Board and to report on them to the Board;
  discussing with the external auditor problems and reservations, if any,
arising from the interim and final audits and any other matters the
external auditor may raise;
  reviewing the internal audit programme, to receive periodical 
reports from the Group Finance Director, to consider the major
findings of internal audit investigations and management's response,
to ensure co-ordination between the Group and the external auditors
and to ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced
and has appropriate standing within the Group;
  reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems and to review
the external auditor's management letter and management's response;
  reviewing the effectiveness of the Risk Management Process ensuring
that the process is active, dynamic and focused on the achievement of
strategy at both Group and operational levels, and to ensure key
business risks and other issues arising from the process are
effectively identified and communicated to the Board; and
  considering any other topics specifically delegated to the Committee
by the Board from time to time.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board,
identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or
improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps 
to be taken.
The Audit Committee's Terms of Reference were reviewed and updated
during the year, and may be found on the Company's website. 
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee, both of which are independent
non-executive Directors, are:
Date of
appointment Qualification
D G Best 1 May 2007 D G Best is a Chartered 
Accountant and has previously 
acted as Group Finance Director 
for a number of major 
businesses.
I F R Much 21 December 2005 I F R Much has significant 
commercial and financial 
experience at a senior 
management level and sits on 
the Audit Committee of another 
quoted public company. 
M Clark retired from the Audit Committee on 1 May 2007, when he
became non-executive Chairman of the Company.
Two members constitute a quorum for the Committee.
The Board expects the Audit Committee to have an understanding of:
  the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial reporting
including the applicable accounting standards and statements of
recommended practice;
  key aspects of the Group's operations including corporate policies,
group financing, products and systems of internal control;
  matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts and 
key figures;
  the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific
laws and other relevant corporate legislation;
  the role of internal and external auditing and risk management; and
  the regulatory framework for the Group's businesses.
Meetings
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has an
agenda linked to events in the Group's financial calendar. The agenda
is predominantly cyclical, although each Audit Committee member has
the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the
cyclical items.
The Audit Committee normally invites the non-executive Chairman,
Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial
Controller, Group Internal Auditor, and senior representatives of the
external auditors to attend all of its meetings, although it reserves the
right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee 
to Discharge its Duties
During the year, the Audit Committee:
  reviewed the financial statements in the 2006 Annual Report, 
and the Interim Report issued in August 2007, as well as other formal
announcements relating to the Group's financial position. As part of
this review, the Committee received a report from the external auditors
on their audit of the Annual Report and the work carried out on the
Interim Report; 
  reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and
disclosures made in the Annual Report;
  reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken 
by the external auditors;
  agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of
the 2007 Accounts and review of the Interim Report;
  reviewed its own effectiveness;
  agreed a programme of work for the Group Internal Auditor;
  carried out an evaluation of the performance of the external auditors; 
and
  received reports from the Group Internal Auditor on the work he has
undertaken and the management responses to the proposals made in
his audit reports during the year.
External Auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation
and monitoring of the Group's policy on external audit. The Audit
Committee is responsible for monitoring the external auditor's
independence, objectivity and compliance with regulatory requirements.
Whilst the Company does not have a policy of subjecting its external
auditors to a regular fixed-term rotation, the Committee remains
cognisant of the importance of maintaining the objectivity of the
Company's external auditors. The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the
effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope, cost and timing of the work
of the external auditors, and acts to ensure their findings are
appropriately implemented. The Committee also reviews the level and
type of non-audit work carried out by the Company's external auditors.
In 2007,  0.2m (2006 -  0.7m) was paid in fees to the external
auditors for non-audit work, relating to tax compliance and tax advice.
The Committee considered it was beneficial for the Company to retain
Deloitte & Touche LLP for this work, because of their expertise in this
area and knowledge of the Group. However, the Committee will
continue to keep the nature and extent of such services under review,
in order to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external
auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed:
  the changes in key external audit staff: the Audit Partner last rotated
at the end of 2005; there were no changes in 2007;
  a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to
identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest and to maintain
their independence; and
  the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee
reviewed the external auditors' performance during the year and their
fulfilment of the agreed audit plan.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities of
the external auditors, the Committee has recommended to the Board
that the external auditors are reappointed.
Internal Control
The Company has a well-established and ongoing process, which was
in place for the full year and up to the date of the Financial Statements,
for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks, including non-
financial risks, faced by the Group. This process is regularly reviewed by
the Board and has been further improved during the year. The process
continues to accord with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
Information on the Group's significant risks, together with the relevant
control and monitoring procedures, is reviewed for completeness and
accuracy by the Group's management committees. This information is
presented to the Board, for it to assess the effectiveness of the system
of internal control. Whilst the Board acknowledges its overall
responsibility for internal control, it believes strongly that senior
management within the Group's operating businesses should contribute
in a substantial way, and this has been built into the process.
In carrying out their review of the effectiveness of internal control in the
Group, the Board takes into consideration the following key features of
the risk management process and system of internal control:
  senior management of each business has spent time identifying and
assessing business unit and Group objectives, key issues,
opportunities and controls. This assessment encompassed operational,
compliance, financial and business risks and is updated on an ongoing
basis. A risk assessment has similarly been prepared for the Group
covering central functions and strategic risks;
  a detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting for the
Group's operations is in place; this is monitored, both locally and
centrally, through a review of monthly management information;
  the Group Internal Auditor's audit plan, which includes a cyclical
programme of visits to all Group operations, is reviewed, updated and
approved by the Committee. The conclusions from the Group Internal
Auditor's work are reported to the Committee, the Group Chief
Executive and the Group Finance Director;
  the Group Internal Auditor also co-ordinates Financial Integrity
Declarations and self-assessment questionnaires which are applied on
a cyclical basis and subjected to review. The results of these reviews
and internal audit visits are reported to the Audit Committee, along
with those from the external auditors; and
  there is in place a formal annual risk management sign-off process for
senior management in each of the business units. This is operated in
order to ensure that, as far as possible, the controls and safeguards
are being operated in line with established procedures and standards.
The whole risk management process is subject to review twice a year
by the Audit Committee, and strengthened as appropriate. Steps are
taken to embed internal controls and risk management further into the
operations of the business, and to deal with areas of improvement
which come to management's and the Board's attention. The Board 
is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
control and for the review of its effectiveness. Such a system is
designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve the Group's objectives, and can only provide reasonable but 
not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
Overview
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded
that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has
ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. The
Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General
Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its
behalf by:
D G Best
Chairman of the Audit Committee
29 February 2008
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 23