 65
Directors' Report
Our governance framework 
Our governance structure has been developed over several years to meet the increasing span and complexity of our businesses. We have clearly 
defined roles and responsibilities at Board level and below it, to seek to ensure that decisions throughout the organisation are soundly based and risks 
are appropriately controlled and monitored.
At a glance
Approvals 
and Allotments
Committee
Page 67
Audit
Committee
Pages 75 to 79
Nomination
Committee
Page 80
Remuneration
Committee
Pages 82 to 105
Corporate
Responsibility
Committee
Page 81
 Board
Composition
Group Chief Executive
Group Chief Financial Officer
Divisional Chief Executives
Group Functional Heads
Sub-Committees
Executive Remuneration
Group Risk Management and Safety
Investments and Ethics 
Nomination
Composition
Divisional Chief Executives
Divisional Finance Directors
Senior Independent (Internal)
Sub-Committees
Audit and Risk
Operating & Financial Review
Remuneration
Ethics 
Group Chief Executive
Executive Committee 
Divisional Chief Executives
Divisional Boards
Executive Management
The role of the Board
The Board drives the development and performance of the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value over the long term, by setting the 
entrepreneurial and governance framework that supports the achievement of the Group's strategic objectives within an acceptable risk profile. 
It is responsible for setting the Group's ethical compass and its risk appetite, balancing risks and reward in the interests of shareholders having 
regard to the implications for other stakeholders, in particular customers and employees, and for achieving the Group's commercial potential, whilst 
effectively addressing the Group's weaknesses. It is responsible for oversight and review of the way in which the Group does business; of the Group's 
performance in meeting its commitments to customers, shareholders, and its employees; of the contribution of the Group's executive management; 
of the Group's principal risks; and of its internal control and risk management processes. 
Serco's business culture and standards of conduct are established and monitored by the Board to ensure that the Group's goals are achieved  
in a manner that also benefits society as a whole. The Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.serco.com and illustrates how  
Serco's approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in 
writing, and agreed by the Board. The Chairman leads the Board and ensures that it operates effectively and the Group Chief Executive has primary 
responsibility for the development and delivery of strategy and the operational performance of the Group. This separation of the two central board  
roles safeguards plurality and a balance of viewpoints on the Board, which promotes better decision-making. 
Senior Independent Director
This role is set out under written terms available on the Company's website www.serco.com. The Senior Independent Director provides an alternative 
point of contact to the Chairman, both for shareholders and other directors, should the need arise. The role would also deputise for the Chairman 
should the need arise. 66
Non-Executive Directors
Although the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not carry any executive responsibilities, together with the Executive Directors they are collectively 
responsible for the Company's direction. In particular, Non-Executive Directors apply their skills, experience, and independent judgement to constructively 
challenge and contribute to the development of the Group's strategy and business plans, and to hold management to account for Group performance. 
Company Secretary and independent advice
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all Board 
procedures are followed and that there are good information flows, together with facilitating induction programmes for newly appointed directors.  
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
The Board has approved a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
 Key Roles and Responsibilities
Chairman Group Chief Executive
Leads the Board and ensures that it is effective in all aspects of its role.
      Takes a leading role in determining the structure and composition of the 
Board, and its capabilities.
      Manages the business of the Board, ensuring that it facilitates the Board  
to fulfil its role and function and, in doing so, ensuring that:
  
  
the directors receive timely, accurate, concise and clear information; and
      
the Board invests sufficient time on each matter for effective consideration 
and decision-making, in keeping with the relative importance of each 
matter and especially for complex or strategically important issues.
      Provides appropriate counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive whilst 
respecting executive responsibility.
      Takes a leading role in the development and succession needs of the Board, 
and the effective performance of each director, including:
 
  
promoting the effective contribution of the non-executive directors;
 
  
ensuring that new directors receive an effective induction; and
 
   
assisting directors in determining individual training needs and ensuring  
that they update as appropriate their knowledge and capabilities.
      Takes a leading role in the performance evaluation of the Board and 
its Committees.
      Promotes the highest standards of corporate governance.
      Ensures that the Board has effective channels of communication with 
shareholders and that the views of principal shareholders on significant 
matters are taken into account.
Leads the business to develop and deliver the Group's strategy and business 
plans as agreed with the Board.
      Provides inspirational leadership across the Group, setting the tone from 
the top to promote the Company's values and the highest ethical behaviour  
by all employees.
      Develops, motivates and retains a strong, professional and internationally-
minded senior management team capable of meeting the challenges 
associated with the Company's long-term growth strategy.
      Identifies strategic opportunities to enable the Group to grow and differentiate 
itself, and agrees with the Board a roadmap to realising those opportunities.
      Accountable for the Group's performance and operational management, 
including its:
 
  
operational governance; 
 
  
ethical compass; 
 
  
profitability; 
 
  
competitive market position; and 
 
  
risk management and internal control systems.
      Maintains a close relationship of trust with the Chairman, seeking appropriate 
counsel and support whilst preserving executive responsibility.
      Leads the executive team, setting a personal example, building team spirit, 
ensuring clear lines of communication, developing individual and team 
capabilities, and ensuring that robust succession planning processes are  
in place. 
      Acts as an effective ambassador for the Group, developing and maintaining 
strong relationships with current and potential customers, and key 
stakeholders.
      Proactively promotes the Group's investment case to investors and listens  
to the views of major shareholders on key issues affecting the Group.
      Communicates both internally and externally the Group's culture and values, 
key strategic imperatives and performance of the business, ensuring that  
a clear sense of purpose is conveyed.  
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors
      Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and assists him in the 
delivery of his objectives as requested.
      Provides an alternative point of contact for principal shareholders if 
they have any concerns that are unresolved through normal channels 
of communication. 
      Seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and 
concerns of principal shareholders.
      Takes a leading role in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
      Should it become necessary, leads an orderly succession process for 
the Chairman.
      In the unlikely event that there is a serious failure in Board governance, 
or where normal Board functioning is seriously impaired or the 
Chairman is unable to act:
 
  
will act as an intermediary where necessary; 
 
   
will intervene to resolve the issues and restore the Board to effective 
functioning. 
      Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the 
Group's strategy and business plans.
      Ensure that the Group upholds high standards of integrity and probity 
with appropriate oversight over the effective embedding of the agreed 
culture, values, and ethical compass.
      Maintain effective oversight and review of the Group's performance 
against agreed goals and objectives, and of the performance of the 
executive management.
      Maintain an effective understanding and oversight of the Group's 
principal risks.
      Satisfy themselves as to:
 
   
the integrity of the financial statements and all other formal 
announcements;
 
   
whether, taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts is fair, 
balanced and understandable;
 
  
 whether the Group's risk management and internal control 
processes, including those relating to the financial reporting 
process, are robust and defensible; and
 
  
 whether the Board has robustly assessed the solvency and liquidity 
risks faced by the Group.
      Taking primary roles in:
 
   
appointing and, if necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in 
Board succession planning; 
 
   
 the Board's determination of remuneration policy for the Chairman; 
the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee members and the 
Company Secretary.  
Corporate Governance Report
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013
Leadership