 Directors' Report
continued
Share capital
Three resolutions are to be proposed at
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
relating to or concerning Share Capital.
(i) The directors are requesting that their
authority to allot shares be renewed.
The maximum amount of relevant
securities that may be allotted
pursuant to the authority is  672,935
in nominal value (6,729,350 shares)
representing approximately 33% of
the Company's total share capital in
issue as at 6 May 2005, being the
latest practical date prior to the date
of the Notice of Meeting. The Board
has no present intention of exercising
this authority, which will expire at the
end of the 2006 Annual General
Meeting, or on 9 September 2006,
whichever is the earlier.
(ii) The directors' power to allot equity
securities conferred by the Special
Resolution of the Company passed on
4 June 2004 will expire at the
conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held on 10 June 2005,
unless otherwise varied, revoked or
renewed. Your directors consider it
desirable that this power, being a
limited disapplication of pre-emption
rights, should be renewed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
such authority to expire at the end of
the 2006 Annual General Meeting, or
on 9 September 2006, whichever is
the earlier. Apart from rights issues,
open offers and other pre-emptive
issues, the aggregate nominal value of
new shares for which power is being
sought is not to exceed  101,960
(1,019,598 shares) representing 5% of
the Company's issued share capital.
The directors have no present
intention of exercising this power
but should any exercise be
contemplated in the future they will
have regard to the Investor Protection
Committee guidelines.
(iii) The directors are requesting that at
the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting they are given the authority
to buy, by way of market purchases,
up to 10% of the issued share capital
of the Company representing a
maximum of 2,039,197 shares. The
price to be paid will be no lower than
10p per share and no more than 5%
above the average of the middle
market quotations (as derived from
the London StockExchange Daily
Official List) for the 5 business days
preceding the day on which the
shares are purchased. Purchases
would not be made in the close
period preceding the announcement
of the Company's interim or final
results. This proposal does not
indicate that the Company will
purchase shares at any particular time
or price, or imply any opinion on the
part of the directors as to the market
or other value of the Company's
shares. This authority will expire at the
end of the 2006 Annual General
Meeting, or on 9 September 2006,
whichever is the earlier. It is the
present intention of the directors to
seeka similarauthority annually.
The total number of options to
subscribe for equity shares
outstanding at 6 May 2005, being
the latest practical date prior to the
date of the Notice of Meeting, is
12,500, representing 0.06% of the
Company's total share capital in issue
at that time. 22 23 Severfield-Rowen Plc Annual Report 2005
>
The directors have no present intention of
exercising this authority and will only do
so at price levels which they consider to
be in the interests of shareholders after
taking account of the Group's overall
financial position, and which would lead
to a beneficial impact on the earnings per
share of the Company.
Employee Information
Employees are regularly informed of
matters concerning the performance and
future developments of the Group.
The Board takes account of employees'
interests when making decisions and
suggestions from employees aimed at
improving the Group's performance are
welcomed.
Creditor Payment Policy
The Group's current policy concerning
the payment of its trade creditors is to
agree terms and conditions for its
transactions with suppliers and to abide
by those terms, subject to those terms
and conditions being met by the supplier.
At 31 December 2004 trade creditors of
the Group represented 61 days of
purchases (2003: 58 days). Creditor days
for the Company are Nil (2003: Nil).
Disabled Persons
The Company has continued with its
established policy of employing disabled
persons where practicable and
endeavours to ensure that they benefit
from training and career opportunities in
common with all employees. In the event
that employees become disabled every
effort is made to ensure that their
employment with the Group continues
and that appropriate training is arranged.
Health and Safety and the Environment
The Group is committed to achieving and
maintaining high standards in health and
safety and environmental performance. It
is the Group's policy to comply with all
laws, directives and regulations pertaining
to its field of operation, and to act in a
manner so as to minimise the effects of
its operations on the environment. The
Group is committed to working with the
local authorities to ensure it complies with
all permits and authorisations required to
carry out its operations.
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed
their willingness to continue in office as
auditors and a resolution to reappoint
them will be proposed at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of directors and
signed on behalf of the Board.
P.J. Davison
Secretary
18 May 2005
Dalton Airfield Industrial Estate, 
Dalton, Thirsk, North Yorkshire, YO7 3JN
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires
the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group as
at the end of the financial year and of the
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements,
the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies
and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that
are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting
standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records, for safeguarding
the assets of the Group and for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.  Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to high
standards of corporate governance. The
Board is accountable to the Company's
shareholders for good corporate
governance. 
In July 2003 the FRC Combined Code
was issued by the London Stock
Exchange for accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Section 1 of the Code is applicable to
companies.
This statement describes how the
principles of corporate governance are
applied to the Company and the
Company's compliance with the Code
provisions.
A. Directors
The Company is controlled through the
Board of directors which now comprises
seven executive and four non-executive
directors, two of which, J.K. Elliott and
D.P. Ridley, are considered as
independent. The Chairman is mainly
responsible for the running of the Board,
evaluating its performance and ensuring
that all directors receive sufficient relevant
information on financial, business and
corporate issues prior to meetings. The
Managing Director's responsibilities focus
on co-ordinating the Company's business
and implementing Group strategy. J.K.
Elliott has the role of senior independent
non-executive director. All directors are
able to take independent professional
advice in furtherance of their duties if
necessary.
The Board has a formal schedule of
matters reserved for it and generally
meets monthly. The Board met on nine
occasions during the year. The directors
attended all the meetings with the
exception of P.A. Emerson, T.G. Haughey
and J.R. Featherstone who each attended
eight meetings. It is responsible for overall
Group strategy, acquisition and
divestment policy, approval of major
capital expenditure projects and
consideration of significant financing
matters. It monitors the exposure to key
business risks including environmental
and health and safety issues. It reviews
the strategic direction of individual trading
subsidiaries, their codes of conduct, their
annual budgets, their progress towards
achievement of those budgets and their
capital expenditure programmes. The
Board also considers employee issues and
key appointments. It also ensures that all
directors receive appropriate training on
appointment and then subsequently as
appropriate. All directors, in accordance
with the Code, will submit themselves for
re-election at least once every three years.
The Board has established four standing
committees, all of which operate within
defined terms of reference. The
committees established are the Audit
Committee, the Remuneration Committee,
the Nomination Committee and the
Health and Safety Committee. Trading
companies are managed by separate
boards of directors. Any matters of a
material nature concerning the trading
companies are reported to the Group
Board of Directors on a monthly basis.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the
non-executive directors, with the exception
of P.M. Levine, and is chaired by J.K. Elliott.
The principal taskof the committee is to
deal with key appointments to the Board,
and related employment matters.
The Committee is responsible for
proposing candidates for appointment to
the Board, having regard to the balance
and structure of the Board. No
nominations were made during the year
under review.
The terms of reference for the Nomination
Committee will be available for inspection
at the AGM.
All directors arerequired to seekre-election
by the members at the AGM following
their appointment. Non-executive directors
are not appointed for a fixed term.
The terms and conditions of appointment
of non-executive directors will be available
for inspection at the AGM.
B. Directors' Remuneration
The Directors' Remuneration Report is set
out on pages 27 to 31 of the financial
statements.
C. Accountability and Audit
Financial Reporting
The performance and financial position of
the Company are provided in the
Operational Review on pages 8 to 10 and
the Financial Review on pages 1 1 to 1 7,
together with the Chairman's Statement on
pages 5 to 7 and the Directors' Report on
pages 19 to 23. These enable the Board to
present a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Company's position and