 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 40
Governance
Audit Committee
This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has 
undertaken during the year.
The members of the Audit Committee are Baroness Noakes DBE (Chairman), Dr Bernard 
Bulkin and Richard Davey whose experience and background are set out on pages 30 and 
31. The board is satisfied that Baroness Noakes and Richard Davey have recent and 
relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee remain independent. 
The members of the Committee receive updates in financial reporting and the group's 
regulatory framework in various forms throughout the year.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the 
Director of Strategy and Regulation, the Group Financial Controller, the Company Secretary 
and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee. Other 
members of senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate. In performing its 
duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Director of Internal Audit, the 
Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
We met five times in 2010/11 and our work focused on four key areas: financial statements 
and accounting policies; internal controls; oversight of internal and external audit; and the 
regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
Financial Statements and Accounting Policies
Reviewing the financial statements and accounting policies requires us to make certain 
judgements and we set out below some of the key issues we discussed in respect of 2010/1 1: 
  the implementation of accounting standards in the period, in particular IFRIC 18 (in 
respect of assets transferred from customers) 
  the assumptions which underpin accounting for the group's retirement benefits schemes
  the rationale for items shown as exceptional in the accounts.
In reviewing the financial statements, we receive input from the Executive Disclosure 
Committee and Deloitte. The former is chaired by the Finance Director and considers the 
content, accuracy and tone of the financial statements and other public disclosures prior  
to their release.
Deloitte reported to the Committee on their review of the half year interim results and on 
their audit of the year end financial statements.
Internal Controls
We receive regular reports from Internal Audit in respect of their work on internal controls 
and we review management letters received from the external auditors. We review Internal 
Audit's annual review of fraud prevention and mitigation as well as a regular fraud log.
Technology controls and governance were areas of focus in 2010/11 and we received 
several reports on the control environment in this area, where we had previously identified 
the potential to enhance controls. Much progress has been made in improving the control 
environment and we will continue to monitor progress into 2011/12.
We reviewed the processes for and outputs from our enterprise risk management process, 
through which the principal risks and related controls are identified. In addition, we 
monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and assurance processes in respect 
of the key risks.
We discussed the new compliance requirement for Senior Accounting Officers to provide 
certification in respect of the accounting records and processes which underpin the 
calculation of tax liabilities for UK based companies owned by the group.
A programme is under way to ensure the group is in compliance with the UK Bribery Act which 
is due to become effective in July 2011. We will receive further progress reports in 2011/12.
Further details of our Internal Control Framework, including the main features of our internal 
control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process, can be 
found in the Directors' Report on page 28.
Oversight of Internal Audit and External Audit
We are responsible for overseeing the work of the internal audit function and also for 
managing the relationship with the group's external auditor. We review the performance of 
Baroness Noakes DBE
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Committee assists the board in 
discharging its responsibilities for the 
integrity of the company's financial 
statements, the assessment of the 
effectiveness of the systems of internal 
controls and monitoring the effectiveness 
and objectivity of the internal and external 
auditors. The role and the responsibilities 
of the Committee are set out in written 
terms of reference. These can be  
found on the company's website  
(www.severntrent.com) and are also 
available from the Company Secretary. Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41
Governance
the internal and external auditor annually to ensure that they are effective and recommend 
to the board whether the external auditor should be reappointed.
The Committee regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external auditors in 
the absence of management. The Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the 
board on the Committee's work and the board receives a copy of the minutes of each 
meeting of the Committee.
Internal audit
The Director of Internal Audit and his Internal Audit team report on a day to day basis  
to management on the effectiveness of the group's systems of internal controls and the 
adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the group's assets 
and resources. This work is summarised and reported to the Audit Committee on a regular 
basis and is a key element of the assurance that the Committee receives on the risks and 
controls in the group.
The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the Internal Audit function are reviewed 
at least annually by the Audit Committee. The Director of Internal Audit is free to raise any 
issues with the Committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
External auditor
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) were appointed auditor of the company in 2005. The Audit 
Committee reviews the auditor's effectiveness each year prior to recommending to the 
board that they be proposed for reappointment at the AGM. Deloitte audit all significant 
subsidiaries of the group.
Annually, the committee reviews information provided by the external auditor confirming 
their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements 
and professional standards. The company does not have a policy of tendering the external 
audit at specific intervals but would initiate a tender process if there were any concerns 
about the quality of the audit or the independence and objectivity of the auditor. There are 
no contractual obligations that act to restrict the Committee's choice of external auditor.
Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are provided in note 
7 to the accounts page 75.
In accordance with the requirements for auditor independence, the lead partner stood down 
after the 2009/10 audit having served five years in that capacity. Our new lead partner 
observed the 2009/10 audit to ensure continuity following the changeover.
Severn Trent Water Limited
The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited result in other reporting 
requirements to Ofwat and these are also covered by the Audit Committee. These 
regulatory reporting obligations include a comprehensive annual return on all of Severn 
Trent Water Limited's regulatory obligations, known as the June Return, and a statement 
that underpins the customer charges made by Severn Trent Water Limited, known as the 
Principal Statement.
Deloitte make reports to Ofwat in respect of the June Return. The June Return covers many 
aspects which are not financial and Severn Trent Water Limited appoints a Reporter, Atkins, 
to report on those aspects. The Audit Committee receives reports from Deloitte and the 
Reporter on their work as part of its review of the returns.
In June 2010, we held an additional meeting to consider and review the new Ofwat reporting 
requirements regarding the split of operating costs and fixed assets between different 
activities within Severn Trent Water Limited ( accounting separation').
Audit Committee attendance in 2010/11
Baroness Noakes 5/5
Dr Bernard Bulkin 4/5
Richard Davey 5/5
In April 2010, we conducted an annual review of our performance as part of the annual 
Board Effectiveness Review process and the board, as a whole, concluded that we continue 
to operate effectively. 
Policy on the provision of non-audit 
services
The company has approved a formal 
policy on the provision of non-audit 
services aimed at safeguarding and 
supporting the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.
The policy sets out the approach to be 
taken by the group when using the 
services of the external auditor, including 
requiring that certain services provided 
by the external auditor are pre-approved 
by the Audit Committee or its Chairman. 
It distinguishes between those services 
where an independent view is required 
and that should be performed by the 
external auditor (such as statutory and 
non-statutory audit and assurance work), 
prohibited services where the 
independence of the external auditor 
could be threatened and they must not 
be used, and other non-audit services 
where the external auditor may be used. 
Non-audit services where the external 
auditor may be used include: non-
recurring internal controls and risk 
management reviews (i.e. excluding 
outsourcing of internal audit work), advice 
on financial reporting and regulatory 
matters, due diligence on acquisitions 
and disposals, project assurance and 
advice, tax compliance services, and 
employee tax services. 
The approval of the Audit Committee  
or its Chairman is always required if  
a non-audit service provided by the 
auditor is expected to cost more than 
 100,000 or if non-audit fees for the  
year would thereby exceed the amount  
of the audit fee.