 44
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Ian Barlow (62)
Independent Non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Ian was appointed Non-executive Director in March 2010 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee in May 2010. 
Ian is a Chartered Accountant and has had considerable 
 nancial experience both internationally and in the UK. 
Prior to his retirement in 2008, he was a Partner at KPMG, 
latterly Senior Partner , London. During his career with 
KPMG, he was Head of their UK tax and legal operations, 
and he acted as Lead Partner for many large international 
organisations operating extensively in North America, 
Europe and Asia.
Other Directorships
 - Lead Non-executive Director chairing the Board of 
Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs
 - Non-executive Director of The Brunner Investment 
Trust PLC
 - Non-executive Director of Foxtons Group plc
 - Board Member of the China-Britain Council
 - Chairman of The Racecourse Association
Nationality
British
Olivier Bohuon (55)
Chief Executive Of cer 
Olivier was appointed Chief Executive Of cer in April 
2011. He is a member of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee.
Olivier has had extensive international and leadership 
experience within a number of pharmaceutical and 
healthcare companies. Prior to joining Smith & 
Nephew, he was President of Abbott 
Pharmaceuticals, a division of Abbott Laboratories 
based in the US, where he was responsible for the 
entire business, including R&D, global manufacturing 
and global support functions.
Other Directorships
 - Non-executive Director of Virbac group
Nationality
French
Sir John Buchanan (70)
Chairman
Sir John was appointed Independent Non-executive 
Director in 2005 and was appointed Chairman and 
Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee in 
April 2006. He will retire from the Board following the 
Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014. 
Sir John has broad international experience gained in 
large and complex international businesses, with 
extensive former board experience at Vodafone Group 
Plc, AstraZeneca PLC and Boots Group PLC. He has 
substantial experience in the petroleum industry and 
knowledge of the international investor community . He has 
held various leadership roles in strategic,  nancial, 
operational and marketing positions, including executive 
experience in different countries. He is a former Executive 
Director and Group Financial Of cer of BP , serving on the 
BP Board for six years until 2003.
Other Directorships
 - Chairman of ARM Holdings plc (until 1 March 2014)
 - Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc
 - Chairman of International Chamber of Commerce UK
 - Chairman of the T rustees for The Christchurch 
Earthquake Appeal (UK)
Nationality
British/New Zealand
Julie Brown (51)
Chief Financial Of cer
Julie was appointed Chief Financial Of cer 
on 4 February 2013 and elected by Shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2013. 
Julie is a Chartered Accountant and Fellow of the 
Institute of Taxation with international experience and 
a deep understanding of the healthcare sector. She 
trained with KPMG and then worked for AstraZeneca 
PLC, where she served as Vice President Group 
Finance, and more recently, as Interim Chief Financial 
Of cer. Prior to that she held commercial roles as 
Regional Vice President Latin America, Marketing 
Company President AstraZeneca Portugal, and Vice 
President Corporate Strategy and R&D Chief Financial 
Of cer. She has previously held Vice President 
Finance positions in all areas of the healthcare value 
chain including commercial, operations, R&D and 
business development.
Nationality
British
Roberto Quarta (64)
Independent Non-executive Director and 
Chairman Elect
Roberto was appointed Non-executive Director and 
Chairman Elect on 4 December 2013. He is a 
member of the Nomination & Governance 
Committee.
Roberto has signi cant management experience 
spanning a broad range of manufacturing and 
service businesses in both the UK and 
internationally. He is Chairman of IMI plc, a FTSE 100 
listed engineering business, Chairman of Clayton, 
Dubilier & Rice and Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board of Rexel SA. Previously, he was Chief 
Executive and then Chairman of BBA Group plc. 
Other Directorships
 - Chairman of IMI plc
 - Chairman of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice 
 - Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rexel SA
Nationality
American/Italian
Richard De Schutter (73)
Senior Independent Director and 
Non-executive Director
Richard was appointed Non-executive Director in 
January 2001 and Senior Independent Director 
in April 2011. He is a member of the Nomination & 
Governance, Ethics & Compliance, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. He will retire from the 
Board following the Annual General Meeting on 10 
April 2014. 
Richard has had extensive US corporate experience 
at Chief Executive and Chairman level in a number 
of major corporations with primarily a scienti c, 
chemical, engineering or pharmaceutical focus 
including G.D. Searle & Co., Monsanto Company, 
Pharmacia Corporation and DuPont Pharmaceuticals 
Company.
Other Directorships
 - Non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation
 - Non-executive Chairman of Durata Therapeutics, Inc. 
 - Non-executive Director of Navicure, Inc.
 - Non-executive Director of Sprout Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
Nationality
American
Our Board has the depth and breadth of experience necessary to help the business take full advantage of the opportunities and challenges ahead.
Our Board of Directors 45
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION
Michael Friedman (70)
Independent Non-executive Director
Michael was appointed Non-executive Director and 
elected by Shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 11 April 2013. He is a member of the Ethics 
& Compliance Committee.
Michael was formerly Chief Executive Of cer of City of 
Hope, the prestigious cancer research and treatment 
institution in California and is now Executive for 
Special Projects and Emeritus Cancer Center Director. 
He has also served as director of the institution's 
comprehensive cancer centre and held the Irell & 
Manella Cancer Center Director's Distinguished Chair. 
He was formerly senior vice president of research, 
medical and public policy for Pharmacia Corporation 
and has served as Deputy Commissioner and Acting 
Commissioner at the US Food and Drug 
Administration. He has also served on a number of 
Boards in a Non-executive capacity, including RiteAid 
Corporation.
Other Directorships
 - Non-executive Director of Celgene Corporation
 - Non-executive Director of MannKind Corporation
Nationality
American
The Rt. Hon Baroness Virginia Bottomley (65)
Independent Non-executive Director
Baroness Virginia Bottomley was appointed Non-
executive Director in April 2012. She is a member of 
the Remuneration Committee. 
Baroness Virginia Bottomley has extensive 
experience and understanding of healthcare. She 
was appointed a Life Peer in 2005 following her career 
as a Member of Parliament between 1984 and 2005. 
She served successively as Secretary of State for 
Health and then National Heritage. She holds a 
number of positions within the public and private 
healthcare sector.
Other Directorships
 - Director of International Resources Group Limited
 - Member of the International Advisory Board of 
Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.,
 - Chancellor of University of Hull and Sheriff of Hull
 - Pro Chancellor of the University of Surrey 
 - Governor of the London School of Economics 
 - Trustee of The Economist Newspaper
Nationality
British
Pamela Kirby (60)
Independent Non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee
Pamela was appointed Non-executive Director 
in March 2002 and Chairman of the Ethics & 
Compliance Committee in April 2011. She is a member 
of the Remuneration Committee 
Pamela has extensive commercial and product 
development experience within the international 
pharmaceutical and healthcare industry. Her last 
executive position was Chief Executive of Quintiles 
Transnational Corporation in the US, having previously 
held senior positions in various pharmaceutical 
companies including AstraZeneca PLC and 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche. She is now a Non-executive 
Director of a number of international companies.
Other Directorships
 - Non-executive Chairman of Scynexis, Inc.
 - Senior Independent Non-executive Director of 
Informa plc
 - Non-executive Director of DCC plc
 - Non-executive Director of Victrex plc
Nationality
British
Brian Larcombe (60)
Independent Non-executive Director
Brian was appointed Non-executive Director in 
March 2002. He is a member of the Nomination & 
Governance, Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
He will become Senior Independent Director following 
the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014. 
Brian spent his career in private equity with 3i Group. 
After leading the UK investment business for 
a number of years, he became Finance Director and 
then Chief Executive of the Group following its 
 otation. He is well known in the City and has held 
a number of Non-executive Directorships.
Other Directorships
 - Non-executive Director of gategroup Holding AG
 - Non-executive Director of Incisive
Media Holdings Limited
Nationality
British
Ajay Piramal (58)
Independent Non-executive Director
Ajay was appointed Non-executive Director in 
January 2012. He will retire from the Board following 
the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014. 
Ajay is one of India's most respected businessmen. 
He enabled the Piramal Group to transform from a 
textile-centric group to a conglomerate in diversi ed 
areas. He has extensive industry and market 
knowledge and international experience. He has held 
a number of global healthcare leadership positions in 
both India and internationally. 
Other Directorships
 - Chairman of Piramal Enterprises Limited, Piramal 
Glass Limited, Allergan India Pvt. Limited, and 
IndiaREIT Fund Advisers Pvt. Ltd. 
 - Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Indian 
Institute of Technology, Indore
 - Member of the Board of Dean's Advisors at Harvard 
Business School
 - Chairman of Pratham India
Nationality
Indian
Joseph Papa (58) 
Independent Non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Joseph was appointed Non-executive Director in 
August 2008 and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee in April 2011. He is a member of the Ethics 
& Compliance and Audit Committees.
Joseph has had over 30 years' experience in the 
pharmaceutical industry working for a number of 
companies both in the US and Switzerland. He is now 
Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company 
plc, one of the largest over the counter pharmaceutical 
companies in the US, having previously held senior 
positions at Novartis International AG, Cardinal 
Health, Inc. and Pharmacia Corporation.
Other Directorships
 - Chairman and Chief Executive
of Perrigo Company plc
Nationality
American