 12
ATH ResouRces plc
annual report and accounts 2010
corporate social responsibility
The Group implements many initiatives to improve 
the local environment and environmental legacy 
issues. At the former Grievehill site in Ayrshire, the 
Group employs rangers to assist in supporting 
suitable nesting areas for birds of prey, including 
the rare hen harrier. This enabled hen harrier chicks 
to fledge during the year. At Grievehill, the Group 
improved the condition of 150 hectares of 
degraded bog through a re-wetting programme.
At Muir Dean in Fife, the Group is implementing 
a scheme to resolve what is considered to be the 
worst coal mine legacy pollution of a water course 
in Scotland. Working closely with the Scottish 
Environmental Protection Agency, the scheme 
involves the creation of a minewater treatment 
facility to remove iron and other pollutants from 
the Fordell Day Level, an old deep minewater 
drainage tunnel. The polluted minewater is 
pumped through water cascades and lagoons and 
filtered through organic reed beds before being 
discharged back into its original course. 
ATH is a partner of the East Ayrshire Coalfield 
Environment Initiative, a partnership involving the 
local authority, conservation bodies and industry, 
working to enhance, promote and conserve the 
environment. This initiative has included the 
creation and enhancement of wildlife habitats 
and schools liaison amongst others.
It is most regrettable however to report that the 
Group was fined  10,000 for contravening Section 
19(3) of the Nature (Conservation) Scotland Act 
2004 by carrying out operations out with the 
permitted area without the consent of Scottish 
Natural Heritage (SNH ). This arose from an 
incident at Grievehill site in March 2008 when 
a section of peat was disturbed adjacent to the 
permitted excavation boundary which caused 
damage to an area designated as a Special Site of 
Scientific Interest (SSSI ). Whilst ATH management 
acted according to competent external advice 
before, during and after the incident and ultimately 
reinstated the disturbed area by taking emergency 
measures, the Company fully accepts that failure 
to notify SNH of these emergency measures was 
in contravention of the Act. A thorough internal 
review has been carried out to ensure that any 
legal requirements to notify relevant parties are 
fully complied with in the future. 
PeoPle
The Group recognises that its people are the most 
valuable resource within the business and an open 
and challenging working environment is encouraged. 
ATH is committed to the training and development 
of its people to allow all staff members to fulfil 
their potential. 
environment
The Group considers the potential environmental impact of 
its operations at every stage of a mine's life cycle
The Group is aware that its activities can have an 
impact on a wide range of stakeholders including 
employees, neighbouring communities and local 
and national governmental agencies and departments. 
The Group strategy focuses on the integration of 
its policies to maximise opportunities for its people 
and the communities within which we operate, 
whilst minimising the impact of its activities 
on the environment, neighbours and other 
interested parties. 
environment
The Group is conscious that its activities could have 
a significant impact on the environment. The Group 
considers the potential environmental impact of its 
operations at every stage of a mine's life cycle from 
the initial planning phase to final restoration. 
Promoting excellence in environmental standards is 
a primary objective of the business and these issues 
are key to the strategic development of each site.
During the planning phase of each potential 
project, a full environmental assessment is carried 
out which is included within a formal planning 
application as the Environmental Statement. 
The potential impact on the environment at each 
stage of the development and operation of a site 
is considered and reported by senior mine 
management which engages specialist external 
consultants as required.  13
ATH ResouRces plc
annual report and accounts 2010
The year Governance Accounts
Gold
Award
20 10
The surface mining industry involves the use of 
large plant and machinery and the Group invests 
significant resources to ensure all operatives are 
properly trained to use the equipment safely and 
effectively. The Group undertakes an ongoing 
programme to monitor employee competency 
and each staff member has a tailored development 
and training plan to ensure that ATH remains 
an industry leader in employee competence.
management training
During the year, the Group continued to focus on 
talent management and career development, with 
the objective of identifying the future managers of 
the business and providing them with the training 
and skills to develop. Career ladders have been created 
for all departments to provide a clear career progression 
plan for each team, setting out the expected 
qualifications and anticipated experience required 
for an employee to be considered for promotion.
The Learning and Development Plan has 
amalgamated all the training identified during 
performance reviews. This plan provides cost 
effective, targeted training in order to develop the 
skills and capabilities of the Management of ATH.
oPerational training
During the year, the Group continued to provide 
specialist training through the Mining Training 
School at the Grievehill restoration site. This School 
is responsible for all the new starter inductions and 
delivery of all the NVQ assessments. Conducting 
both the assessments and inductions on a 
restoration site ensures the highest standard of 
training is delivered in a safe environment under the 
close supervision of a qualified trainer and assessor. 
The assessment centre has achieved accreditation 
to continue to offer qualifications under the new 
Qualifications Credit Framework in 2011.
The high level of training capability has seen the 
school train 85% of the workforce to NVQ Level 2 
standards on their primary piece of equipment, 
when combined with the large amount of tertiary 
training delivered to the workforce, means that 
ATH has one of the best qualified and most 
competent workforces within the industry.
HealtH anD safety
A key strategic Group objective is to provide safe 
working environments for all employees and 
visitors at ATH mines and facilities.
Group health and safety policies and procedures are 
controlled through the ATH Resources plc Health and 
Safety Committee, chaired by the Operations Director 
responsible for health and safety. Health and safety is 
managed through the Health and Safety Assessment 
Model which drives Group performance through 
four key stages. The policy strives for continuous 
improvement through awareness, competence, 
compliance and excellence.
The Group provides ongoing high quality training 
to all employees in every aspect of health and safety 
and promotes an open culture where unsafe 
practices are challenged and reported to achieve our 
targets of excellence and continuous improvement. 
The Group had four reportable injuries during the 
year (2009: four) and suffered no major injuries. 
The Group achieved full accreditation to OHSAS 
18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management 
Systems) in the year which recognised the quality 
of the processes for the management of Health 
and Safety within the Group.
rosP a golD a warD
During the year, ATH was awarded the RoSPA (Royal 
Society for the Prevention of Accidents) Gold Award. 
This accreditation was received in recognition of the 
Group's performance in promoting and attaining 
a high standard in the management of health and 
safety and in providing a safe place of work. Areas 
of particular strength were in hazard identification, 
the use of safe working practices, compliance with 
industry regulations and the involvement of safety 
representatives in new initiatives.
These achievements are shared by all employees of 
the Group without whose commitment and effort 
the improvements and awards would not have 
been attained.
social anD community
The Group understands the importance of 
communication and interaction with our 
neighbouring communities to provide information 
about its operations and support through 
sponsorship and donations. 
ATH operates community liaison groups at each of 
its sites. These groups meet on a regular basis and 
allow the exchange of information on site progress 
whilst enabling community representatives to raise 
any issues for discussion. 
The Group provides support to community groups 
and projects and provides financial support 
through direct sponsorship and activities or 
through community and environmental trusts. 
Supported independent trusts include the Cumnock 
and Doon Valley Minerals Trust, the Kirkconnel 
Coalfield Trust, the Coalfields Environment Initiative 
and the Muir Dean Environmental Trust. Overall, 
the Group contributed  291,000 to these schemes 
which provide support to a wide range of good 
causes including Scout and Guide groups, local 
Church organisations and sports clubs.
rosP a golD a warD
The Group's continued 
commitment to excellence in 
health and safety procedures 
and practices was recognised 
in the year with the 
presentation of the RoSPA 
Gold Award in Occupational 
Health and Safety.