 Governance
46 / Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit Committee report
The role of the Audit Committee in monitoring the integrity of 
the Group's financial affairs is important to our shareholders 
and other stakeholders and accordingly we work with the 
management team and our external and internal auditors  
to adopt best practice approaches to policies, processes  
and controls. A key function of the Audit Committee is to 
review the effectiveness of the Group's financial reporting 
and internal controls, together with the procedures for 
identification, assessment and reporting of key risks.  
James Morley
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee presents its report in relation to the financial 
year ended 31 March 2013.
 
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors: 
James Morley (Chairman), Michael Averill and Chris Masters,  
all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. 
Biographies of each of the members of the Audit Committee  
are set out on page 39.
James Morley is a chartered accountant with over 25 years' 
experience as a board member at both listed and private 
companies. He currently holds non-executive directorships  
at Clarkson plc, Costain Group plc, The Innovation Group plc  
and BMS Associates. Previously James was also a Non-Executive 
Director of the Bankers Investment Trust, WS Atkins, The Trade 
Indemnity Group and Acumus Limited. The Board is satisfied  
that James Morley has recent and relevant financial experience.
Attendance
The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year.  
Details of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings are  
set out in the table to the left.
Chris Masters was unable to attend one meeting because of  
a long-standing prior engagement linked to another of his 
non-executive posts.
Operation and responsibilities of the Audit Committee
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director, together with representatives from the external auditors 
and the Head of Risk and Assurance, are invited to attend meetings 
of the Audit Committee. The external auditors and the Head of  
Risk and Assurance regularly meet privately with the Audit 
Committee, to advise them of any matters which they consider 
should be brought to the Audit Committee's attention without the 
Executive Directors present. The external auditors and the Head  
of Risk and Assurance may also request a meeting with the Audit 
Committee if they consider it necessary.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it 
necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent 
professional advice at the Company's expense.
The Audit Committee's duties include, inter alia:
 > monitoring the integrity of the Group's Financial Statements and 
formal announcements relating to the Group's performance;
 > monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process 
including the appointment, cost and independence of the 
external auditors;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and the internal 
audit function;
 > approving the appointment or replacement of the Head of Risk 
and Assurance; and
 > reviewing the Board's process for identifying and managing 
significant risk in the business.
Audit Committee members and meetings attended
Names Position
Meetings 
attended
James Morley (Chairman) Non-Executive Director 4/4
Michael Averill Non-Executive Director 4/4
Chris Masters Non-Executive Director 3/4 Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 / 47 
The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an annual 
programme of business. The Audit Committee agrees the scope  
of the external audit work and discusses the results of the full-year 
audit and half-year review each year with the external auditors  
and the Group Finance Director and Chief Executive.
In accordance with its annual programme of business, the Audit 
Committee's terms of reference were reviewed and amendments 
adopted, so as to take into account the model terms published  
by ICSA and other relevant guidelines. The terms of reference  
of the Audit Committee are published on the Company's website  
at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available in hard copy form  
on application to the Company Secretary.
Priorities of the Audit Committee
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed a number of the 
Group's policies and procedures including the monitoring of  
fleet assets at depot level and depot audits in general. The Audit 
Committee also reviewed the Group's policy for international bad 
debt provisions, the effectiveness of the processes and controls  
for debt collection in the United Kingdom and Ireland, for procuring 
goods and services from third parties within the Group's 
procurement department, and for engaging with other suppliers  
of plant and equipment within the Group's supply partner services 
division.
The Audit Committee kept under review the Group's whistle-blowing 
procedures to ensure arrangements are in place to enable 
employees to raise concerns about possible malpractice or 
wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees on a confidential 
basis, and confirmed that they were satisfied with those procedures.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
During the year the Group established a formal Risk and Assurance 
Department, which incorporated the existing internal audit activities. 
The Head of Risk and Assurance reports to the Board and to the 
Audit Committee. The internal audit function is involved in the 
assessment of the quality of risk management and internal control. 
It helps to promote and further develop effective risk management 
in all areas of the business, including the embedding of risk 
registers and risk management procedures within individual 
business areas. The Audit Committee receives reports from the  
Risk and Assurance Department at each meeting.
Review of the work and independence of the external auditors
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the relationship between  
the Group and the external auditors and reserves oversight 
responsibility for monitoring the external auditors' independence 
and objectivity. This work includes an assessment of their 
performance and cost-effectiveness, as well as their compliance 
with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements. The Audit 
Committee also reviews any major issues which arise during the 
course of the audit and their resolution, key accounting and audit 
judgements, as well as any recommendations made to the Board 
by the auditors and the Board's response. The Audit Committee  
was also consulted by the Board in respect of the content of this 
Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained between the Group and the external 
auditors. The Group has implemented a policy to control the 
provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to 
ensure that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded. 
This policy provides that preference should be given to retaining 
consultants other than from the external auditors unless strong 
reasons exist to the contrary. The policy further requires that the 
provision of any non-audit services by the external auditors costing 
in excess of  30,000 is subject to prior approval by the Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee closely monitors the amount the 
Company spends with the external auditors on non-audit services.
During the year non-audit services were provided to the Group  
by both the external auditors and other accounting, or consulting, 
firms and the Group anticipates that this will continue. The amount 
payable to the external auditors for audit services was  219,600, 
whilst  76,425 was payable to the external auditors for non-audit 
services where they were best placed to undertake the work  
due to their knowledge of the business or as a by-product of the 
audit function. This involved work relating to certain compliance 
certificates required as part of the Group's banking facilities,  
a review of the risk profile relating to collection of payments from 
customers and a review of the Group's debt facility structure. A split 
of the audit and non-audit fees is set out in note 4 to the Group 
Financial statements on page 82. 
The Audit Committee considered the external auditors' performance 
during the year and reviewed the level of fees charged, which  
are considered appropriate given the size of the Group. The Audit 
Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit services 
undertaken by the external auditors has not impaired their 
independence and objectivity. Having considered the results of  
the Audit Committee's work, the Board is recommending the 
reappointment of the external auditors.
The Group's external audit contract was last tendered in 2001. The 
Audit Committee continues to monitor the proposed changes by  
the European Union/Commission in respect of auditor services and 
retendering and recognises the change made by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council regarding the retendering of audit services at 
least once every 10 years for companies in the FTSE 350 and above.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 May 2013.
James Morley
Chairman of the Audit Committee