 11
SPG Media Group plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Corporate governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration 
report on pages 14 to 17 describe how the Board has applied the principles set out in the Combined Code 2006 ( the Code') 
issued by the Financial Services Authority. The Code is part of the listing rules as issued by the Financial Services Authority. 
The Company has substantially complied with the provisions of the Code, except where the Board has determined that they 
are inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company.
The Board
The Company is headed by the Board, which is made up of two executive directors and three non-executive directors. 
Biographical detail on each director is shown on page 2. The Chairman of the Board is Stephen Davidson who has been 
Chairman since 18 April 2005. The Board identified Adrian Howe as the senior non-executive director .  
The Board met eight times during the year and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the consideration of the 
Board. The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group. The Board sets and monitors 
the Group strategy , reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining development possibilities and 
formulating policy on key issues. The Board is also responsible for the monitoring of the risk and control environment.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and, together with the Board, determining the strategy of the Group. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Group's businesses supported by divisional managing directors.
The non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive directors in order to discuss performance of 
the Board, its committees and individual directors. A performance review has been carried out.
All directors are required to stand for re-election at least once every three years. The terms and conditions of appointment of 
the non-executive directors are available for inspection at our registered office.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Board and its committees are supplied with papers to enable them to consider 
matters in good time for meetings and to enable them to discharge their duties. Procedures are in place for the directors, in 
the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary at the Company's expense, as required 
under the Code.
The Board has established a number of committees with mandates to deal with specific aspects of its business. The table 
below details the membership and attendance of individual directors at Board and committee meetings held during the year 
ended 31 March 2008.
  Board  Remuneration  Audit Nomination 
   committee committee committee
Number of meetings in the year 8 1 2 -
    
KK Appiah 8 - 2
1
 -
SJ Davidson 8 1 2 -
CJM Haines 8 1 2 -
AT Howe 8 1 2 -
KJ Sadler 8 - 2
1
 -
1.  By invitation and for part of meetings.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises Christopher Haines (chairman), Stephen Davidson and Adrian Howe. 
Adrian Howe joined the committee on 4 May 2007. The remuneration committee is responsible for determining the 
service contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors, details of which are set out in the 
Remuneration Report. The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available for inspection on request.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprised Stephen Davidson (chairman), Christopher Haines, Keith Sadler, Ken Appiah 
and Adrian Howe. The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations 
to the Board. The committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of 
that evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. The terms of 
reference of the nomination committee are available for inspection on request.  SPG Media Group plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2008
12
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises Adrian Howe (chairman), Christopher Haines and Stephen Davidson. The committee met 
twice in the year with the external auditors in attendance. Under C.3.1 of the Code the audit committee should comprise at 
least two independent directors. On the appointment of Adrian Howe the Group has complied with the Code.
Adrian Howe took over as chairman of the audit committee from 4 May 2007. 
The committee is responsible for reviewing the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts and it oversees the 
controls necessary to ensure the integrity of the fi nancial information reported to shareholders. The audit committee 
discusses the nature, scope and fi ndings of the audit with the external auditors, and monitors the independence of the 
external auditors. The committee is also responsible for considering the appointment or re-appointment of external 
auditors and the audit fee. The terms for the audit committee are available for inspection on request. 
The audit committee discharges its responsibilities through receiving reports from management and advisers, working 
closely with the auditors, carrying out and reviewing risk assessment and taking counsel where appropriate in areas when 
required to make a judgement.
The audit committee has considered the need for a separate internal audit function but due to the size of the Group and 
procedures in place to monitor both trading performance and internal controls, it was concluded the costs of a separate 
internal audit department would outweigh the benefi ts.
The audit committee reviews arrangements by which staff may raise possible improprieties in matters relating to fi nancial 
reporting. The Group has made staff aware of its whistleblowing policy which is published on the Group's intranet and 
company handbook. Notifi cation can be made anonymously to the Chief Executive Offi cer, Finance Director or Chairman.
The auditor's fees for the year are  65,000 (2007:  63,000).
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined that non-audit work will not 
be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear effi ciencies and value added benefi ts to the Company. The 
Audit Committee annually reviews the remuneration received by the auditors for audit services and non-audit work. The 
outcome of this review was that the performance of this work by the auditors was the most cost effective and also that no 
confl ict existed between such audit and non-audit work.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness. 
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Under the Code there is a requirement that the directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal 
controls.  This extends the existing requirement in respect of internal fi nancial controls to cover all controls including 
fi nancial, operational, compliance and risk management.
A formalised process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Group has been 
operating throughout the period under review. In addition to meeting the Code's requirement for an annual review of 
the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Group has established an embedded process for managing 
business risks. An integral part of each business's planning and review process is to identify their risks, the probability of 
those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks. The information is 
continually communicated upwards and enables the senior management to ensure that these risks are being managed on 
an effective and timely basis.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
 The key controls in place have been reviewed by the Board and comprise the following:
The preparation of comprehensive annual budgets and business plans integrating both financial and operational 
performance objectives and plans, with an assessment of the associated business and financial risks, for each area of 
the business. The overall Group budget and business plan is subject to approval by the Board.
Weekly revenue reports are produced and reviewed by management.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for each business unit and reviewed by the Board. This includes reporting 
against key performance indicators and exception reporting.
An organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility. Authorisation limits have been set throughout 
the Group and these are reviewed on a regular basis.  
 
 
 
  1 SPG Media Group plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Shareholder relationships
The Company is active in communicating with both its institutional and private shareholders. Effective communication 
with institutional shareholders and analysts is established through presentations involving the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Finance Director. The Company operates a corporate website at www.spgmedia.com where information is available to 
potential investors and shareholders. 
The Board will use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private shareholders and seek their participation. 
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting has been circulated more than 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Health and safety
It is the policy of the Group to conduct all business activities in a responsible manner free from recognised hazards and 
to respect the environment, health and safety of our employees, customers, suppliers, partners, neighbours and the 
community at large.
Going concern
After making relevant enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group as a whole has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
By order of the Board,
K K Appiah
Secretary
21 July 2008