 Corporate Governance Statement
Compliance
As an AIM listed company, the Company is not required to follow 
the provisions of the Combined Code (the Code ) as set out in 
the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules. However, the Group
recognises the importance of the principles of good corporate
governance and has continued its commitment to such high standards
throughout the year and particularly its voluntary compliance with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good
governance and the statement set out below describes how the
principles identified in the Code are applied by the Group.
The Board Constitution and Procedures
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which
currently comprises three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be
independent of management and free of any relationship which could
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
As the Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the Board,
he ensures that all Directors receive sufficient relevant information on
financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. The Chief
Executive's responsibilities focus on coordinating the Company's
business and implementing Group strategy.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for consideration by the Board,
which meets at least 12 times each year. The Board is responsible for
overall Group strategy, acquisition and investment policy, approval 
of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant
financing matters. It reviews the strategic direction of individual trading
subsidiaries, their codes of conduct, their annual budgets, their
progress towards achievement of these budgets and their capital
expenditure programmes. In addition, the Directors have access to 
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all Directors are
able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their
duties if necessary. The Directors receive training and advice on their
responsibilities as necessary. All Directors, in accordance with the Code,
submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Board Committees
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit, Remuneration
and Nomination Committees. The minutes of each Committee are
circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Holt with its other members
being Peter Dicks and Sean O'Connor. The Audit Committee meets at
least twice a year and normally invites a representative of both the
auditors and the Executive Directors, the latter usually being the Group
Finance Director. The terms of reference of the Committee include
monitoring the auditors' performance and reviewing accounting policies
and financial reporting procedures.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Peter Dicks with its other
members being Sean O'Connor and Brian Harris. The Remuneration
Committee meets when necessary during the year and considers the
terms of employment for the Executive Directors and key members of
senior management. In particular, the Committee makes decisions
regarding grants under share plans, salaries and incentive
compensation. The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is
determined by the Board.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Peter Dicks with its other
members being Sean O'Connor and Brian Harris. It meets during the
year as and when required and its function is to carry out the process
of nominating candidates to fill vacancies on the Board.
Communication with Investors
The Group places a great deal of importance on communication 
with its institutional and private shareholders and responds quickly 
to all queries received. There is regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders as well as general presentations after each quarter end
and the issue of preliminary results.
All shareholders have at least 20 working days' notice of the Annual
General Meeting at which all Directors are introduced and available 
for questions.
Accountability and Audit
(a) Internal Control
The Group has fully complied with provision D.2.1 of the Code for the
16 month period to 31 July 2004 and up to the date of approval of the
Report and Accounts. The Directors acknowledge that they have
overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for
monitoring its effectiveness. The Board has ensured that there is an
ongoing process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of
internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group. This process, which is regularly
reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with business
planning and is documented in a risk register that was developed 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the system of
internal control, the Board are aware that the system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group's internal control procedures continue to be progressively
developed and formalised to ensure that they sufficiently meet all
requirements of the Group. This is reflected by the appointment of 
a Director of Internal Audit in the financial period to 31 July 2004.
Executive members of the Board are involved daily in all aspects of 
Sportingbet Plc annual report and accounts 03/04 24 the business and they attend the regular management meetings at
which performance against plan and business prospects is reviewed.
Additionally, the Board seeks to continually strengthen the internal
control system where this is consistent with improving the relationship
between risk and reward.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the
internal control system are described below:
  Monthly management information, including financial accounts and
key performance indicators, have been defined and are produced on
a timely basis for review by the Board;
  A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses
culminates into an annual budget which is reviewed and approved 
by the Board. Results for the Group and for its main constituent
businesses are reported monthly against the budget to the Board and
revised forecasts for the financial year are considered each quarter;
  A comprehensive financial and accounting package sets out the
principles of the minimum standards required by the Board for
effective financial control. This package sets out the financial and
accounting policies and procedures to be applied throughout the
Group. Compliance with the policies and procedures set out in this
package is reviewed regularly;
  Formal reports for the Board are prepared by the senior executives
on the operation of those elements of the system for which they 
are responsible;
  The Company has clearly defined guidance for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review
procedures, levels of authority and stringent due diligence
requirements where businesses are being acquired.
(b) Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee meets periodically to review the adequacy of the
Group's internal control systems, accounting policies and compliance
with applicable accounting standards and for considering the
appointment of external auditors and audit fees. The Group's auditors
are invited to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee is authorised
by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference
and obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice as
necessary. The auditors and individual Board members are afforded the
opportunity for separate meetings with the Audit Committee. The Audit
Committee consists wholly of Non-Executive Directors.
Social Responsibility
Sportingbet has developed and complies with its Customer Charter
and Code of Conduct.
Customer Charter
1. Sportingbet promises to ensure complete transparency and clarity in
all its financial relationships with customers.
2. Sportingbet will offer odds on all mainstream sporting events and
these will be competitive with other major bookmakers.
3. Sportingbet respects the privacy of all its customers and commits
itself to protect any data about customers from outside parties.
4. Sportingbet maintains 24 hour customer service, available in a wide
range of languages, to resolve all customer matters as quickly as
possible. In the event that there is no amicable agreement in a
dispute, Sportingbet agrees to abide by independent arbitration.
Code of Conduct 
1. Sportingbet complies with all route-to-market legislation everywhere
in the world. The Company will only physically operate where it is
expressly permitted or licensed to do so.
2. Sportingbet commits to be transparent on the setting and changing
of odds and the prompt settling of all customers' financial
transactions.
3. Sportingbet complies with all securities' legislation in each market it
operates in, and by the appropriate rules and regulations of the UK
Stock Exchange.
4. Sportingbet pays all taxes and levies wherever they are applied.
5. Sportingbet is committed to support the world-wide liberalisation
and regulation of online gambling.
6. Sportingbet refuses to take bets from minors and supports all efforts
to avoid taking bets from compulsive or problem gamblers.
7. Sportingbet commits to be proactive in combating money laundering
and any form of financial fraud.
8. Sportingbet's conduct with its customers will be straightforward and
helpful at all times.
Sportingbet Plc annual report and accounts 03/04 25