 ANNUAL REPORT 2008/2009
15
Corporate Social Responsibility
Overview 
Since its formation in 1998 Sportingbet has 
always sought to exhibit responsible and ethical 
practices. The Company's culture was formalised 
in 2000 in a series of written statements entitled 
Customer Charter and Code of Conduct. Since 
then these statements have been available for 
viewing on the Sportingbet website and continue 
to illustrate the Company's social responsibility 
to its customers, to its shareholders and to the 
governments of markets in which it operates. 
The Company's objective is to provide a  protected 
entertainment environment' in which its customer 
care programmes give responsible adults the 
confidence of knowing that their money is safe, 
whilst providing the Company with the confidence 
that all reasonable steps are being taken to 
protect the vulnerable.
Social responsibility 
committee 
The Social Responsibility Committee is chaired by 
Non-Executive Director Brian Harris and its other 
members are Sean O'Connor, Non-Executive and 
Senior Independent Director, and the Company's 
General Counsel Daniel Talisman who also acts 
as the Committee's Secretary. The Committee 
meets at least two times a year and in fact met 
three times during the last financial year. The 
Audit & Compliance Manager and the Group 
Head of Human Resources attend its meetings 
and the Group Chief Executive is apprised of the 
Committee's work at least twice in the course of 
the year. 
The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
the Company's policies on corporate social 
responsibility and stimulating Group-wide best 
practice on matters including age verification, 
fraud, money laundering, responsible gaming,  
self-exclusion and privacy.
Appropriate recommendations are made to the 
Company's Board. Terms of Reference can be 
viewed on www.sportingbetplc.com and are 
available in writing on request. 16
Customers 
As a service business, the core of Sportingbet's 
policies on social responsibility lie in its approach 
to its customers. All operational directors and 
managers are committed to winning and retaining 
the trust and loyalty of their customers. 
The guiding principle behind Sportingbet's policies 
can be summarised as  Know Your Customer'. 
Procedures to achieve this mean far more than 
merely collecting documentary evidence of 
people's identities. It is about understanding their 
individual requirements, appreciating concerns and 
closely researching their patterns of behaviour.
Knowing one's customers and creating profiles of 
their activities and preferences leads to targeted 
and appropriate marketing strategies. This lies at 
the heart of the Company's Customer Relationship 
Management policies.
The way different customers spend money 
and what they spend it on provides an overall 
understanding of their motivation. For almost all of 
the Company's customers online gambling is an 
entertainment pastime, and Sportingbet's products, 
promotions and culture make their relationship 
with the Company an enjoyable experience.
It is the small minority, however, who may be 
potential fraudsters, underage gamblers or 
problem players that result in the need for 
comprehensive systems and procedures to 
protect the Company and, often, the customer. 
Of course, nothing can ever be entirely secure 
against determined offenders, but the Company 
commits much time and investment to finding 
organisational and software driven approaches to 
excluding the vulnerable and identifying fraud.
With the advent of multi-player environments 
such as poker, the Company is particularly vigilant 
about the risk of collusion or irregular fund 
movements between participants. Systems have 
been designed to highlight unusual or concerning 
patterns of play.
Employees 
The Board of Sportingbet is of the firm belief that 
the Company's success is due to the quality and 
commitment of its workforce. The Company's 
employee management priorities, including its 
remuneration strategies, are based on recruiting 
and retaining the best people in the industry and 
on encouraging working practices that improve 
productivity, reduce costs, develop talent and give 
job satisfaction.
Further, the Board recognises the need for 
communication with employees at every level. 
Weekly sales notes and all quarterly results 
announcements are circulated to employees and 
copies of the Annual Report and Accounts are 
made available. The Company is committed to 
developing ongoing communication with all of 
its employees. This is achieved through a variety 
of channels, including the Group's intranet, and 
ensures that everyone is informed of the Group's 
progress and recognises the key roles that they, as 
employees, play in Sportingbet's success. Further, 
the Group is committed to a policy of equal 
opportunity in matters relating to employment, 
training and career development of employees 
and is opposed to any form of less favourable 
treatment afforded on the grounds of age, 
disability, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, 
nationality, race or religion.
Corporate Social Responsibility 17
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/2009
Trade and charitable 
organisations 
The Company recognises the obligation upon the 
gaming industry to demonstrate its commitment to 
self-regulation. The Company is supportive of the 
role that the industry's trade associations can play 
in this regard and Sportingbet is an active member 
of the Remote Gambling Association (RGA ), 
holding a seat on its Executive Committee and 
being represented on various RGA  
sub-committees.
The Company has signed up to the RGA's Codes 
on Social Responsibility and Age Verification, the 
provisions of which the Committee endorses.
Sportingbet invests time and resources in meeting 
and communicating with officers and politicians of 
governments, and national online gaming licensing 
authorities. The Company's management remains 
committed to playing its part in promoting the 
value of legislation that will lead to a regulated 
approach to the industry, not least as a mechanism 
for protecting the vulnerable elements of society 
from unscrupulous operators.
Recognising that some customers may be 
affected by gambling dependency, the Company 
has continued to provide funding in the UK to 
Responsibility in Gambling Trust (RIGT ), being 
the body which supports GamCare. The Company 
also supports charitable organisations that are 
not linked to the online gaming industry, including 
Friends of Israel Sport Centre for the Disabled, 
The Dan Maskell Tennis Trust, Headway - a local 
Guernsey charity, the Bishop Simeon Trust in 
South Africa and the Bury St. Edmunds  
Theatre Royal. 18
Community liaison
In order to encourage a socially integrated 
work environment, the Company has placed an 
emphasis on investing in the local communities 
in which it operates.  In Guernsey, where the 
Company's primary licenced operations are based, 
the Company has invested a significant amount of 
time and money into the local community, including 
the sponsorships of Heather Watson, the UK's 
number one and world number three ranked junior 
tennis player, the Channel Islands Athletics Club, 
and local events like the Sportingbet Guernsey 
Marathon and the Sportingbet Channel Islands 
Sports Personality of the Y ear Awards. 
In Antigua, where the Group has held sports 
betting and gaming licences for many years, the 
Company has donated a significant sum of money 
to fund both the building of a library at the Island 
Academy International School and bursaries for 
a number of less privileged local children. The 
Antigua Girls High School has benefited from a 
donation to provide desks and other key furniture, 
as part of the school's commitment to update  
its resources.
Sponsorship - Investing in 
the future of sport
In the last twelve months the Company has 
invested significantly in sport.  In football in the 
UK, Sportingbet announced its sponsorship of the 
Premier League team, Wolverhampton Wanderers 
Football Club, for the 2009/2010 season. In 
addition, Sportingbet is the official online betting 
and gaming partner of Portsmouth Football Club.  
Commencing in April, Sportingbet.com became 
the official sponsor of Monday Evening Racing 
at Windsor Race Course, and sponsored over 75 
individual horse races across the UK throughout 
the summer.  In conjunction with this, in the last 
financial year Sportingbet.com has become the 
main supporter of HEROS, the leading charity 
dedicated to the welfare of former racehorses to 
ensure they have a comfortable existence once 
their race days are over.  In Europe the Company's 
investment in sport has focussed on football and 
basketball sponsorships, through partnerships with 
the Romanian football team, Steaua Bucharest, 
the Bulgarian team Slavia Sofia, the Spanish team 
Real Ovieda, and the main sponsorship title of the 
Euroleague Basketball.  
In Australia, the Group is the major sponsor of 
the Brisbane Broncos, one of Australia's leading 
Rugby League teams, and Carlton Football Club, 
one of Australia's largest Aussie Rules teams.
Finally, in Brazil, Sportingbet is the main sponsor of 
Brazilian football league's second division - home 
of Corinthians, Brazil's most popular team.
Corporate Social Responsibility