 34 Governance 
  Annual Report and Accounts 2008
are four Non-Executive Directors (one of whom is the Senior Independent
Director ( SID')) and two Executive Directors.
Details of the Chairman's professional commitments are included in his
biography . The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman
do not interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman. The Board
considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent in character
and judgement and by reference to the Combined Code and that controls are
in place to ensure that no single Director has unfettered powers of decision.
The management of operational matters within the Group is delegated 
to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and
certain other senior executives. The Executive Committee meets monthly.
Board evaluation
During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors. Previous
evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the Chairman, whilst
the SID conducted the evaluation of the Chairman. The Board concluded that
this process remained appropriate. 
All Directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire, which
each Director then discussed with the Chairman and with the SID, in relation 
to responses about the Chairman. 
The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable process, which
has contributed to fostering an environment within the Board that is challenging
but supportive and encourages focus on the main issues facing the Group. 
In 2006/07 , the recommendations included a more detailed half-year review
on strategy and greater focus on succession planning. These matters are now
incorporated into the Board's annual schedule.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme
involving existing and potential investors within the UK and overseas. 
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and certain senior executives meet
with institutional investors on a regular basis. The Chairman and SID make
themselves available to meet with institutional investors. The SID attends 
the preliminary and interim results presentations with investors and analysts.
An investor relations report is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, to
communicate with investors and encourage their participation. The Directors
are available to speak informally with shareholders after the meeting.
Board Committees
The Board has established three committees. Each committee operates
in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually
and can be viewed on the Company's website, www.ssl-international.com.
Committee chairmen report at the next meeting on the proceedings of the
committee which they chair. 
The membership and a summary of the principal activities of each
committee is shown in the table on the opposite page.
Policy on auditors' independence
Safeguarding the independence of the external auditors is paramount
and controls are in place to ensure their continued independence. However,
there are occasions when services can be more efficiently undertaken by the
external auditor and at no risk of impairment of their independence. The Audit
Committee has put in place a detailed policy on the provision of services by
the external auditors, that sets out the services which the external auditors are
allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and those which are prohibited to
them. Under this policy, external auditors cannot be engaged to provide any 
of the following services:
 Design or implementation of IT systems;
 Valuation;
 Internal audit; and
 Litigation support, legal or corporate finance advice, tax advice (if on a wholly
or partly contingent fee basis), recruitment, executive compensation
advice, accounting and actuarial valuation. 
Secondment of senior audit staff to the Company is also prohibited.
Introduction
The Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders and 
other stakeholders, by developing strategy and by leading the Group, 
ensuring that the appropriate resources, processes and controls are 
in place to execute that strategy. Developing and maintaining high 
standards of corporate governance is integral to the delivery of value. 
This report explains SSL 's corporate governance arrangements 
and how the Group has applied the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (the  Code').
The Board
There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board. 
This schedule includes:
 Approval/development of the Group's long-term objectives and
commercial strategy;
 Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any
material changes to them;
 Review of performance in the light of the Group's strategy, objectives,
business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective
action is taken;
 Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions;
 Approval of contracts which are material strategically , or by reason of size; and
 Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
T o ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board 
has a schedule of matters for each meeting. These matters include:
 Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director;
 Health and safety;
 Presentations from the heads of the business units;
 Investor relations; and
 Regulatory reviews.
The Board also receives regular updates on relevant legal and
environmental matters.
The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and 
Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by 
Directors at those meetings.
During the year under review, the Board continued to be led by the
Chairman, Gerald Corbett. Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is primarily
responsible for the effective running of the Group's business. There is a clear,
written schedule on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and
the Chief Executive. In addition to the Chairman and Chief Executive, there
Corporate
governance
Scheduled AuditNominationRemuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings meetings
I. Adamson 7(7)
R. Adam 7(7) 4(4) 3(3) 4(4)
G. Corbett 7(7) 3(3) 4(4)
A. Catalano 7(7) 4(4) 4(4)
M. Moran 7(7)
S. Murray 7(7) 4(4) 4(4)
P. Read 7(7) 4(4) 3(3) 4(4)
G. Watts 7(7) 3(3)
The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which
the individual was a Board member. When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they
receive the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting. One
of the Board meetings was devoted solely to strategy. Under this policy, it has been agreed that due to their understanding 
of the Group's business and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, the external
auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services, for which there
is a pre-agreed limit for fees (not including VA T) which do not require prior
approval from the Audit Committee:
 Audit-related regulatory reporting including interim review, covenant
reporting and other audit certificates ( 100,000);
 Further assurance including advice on accounting matters, non-regulatory
reporting on internal controls or corporate governance, due diligence work
and environmental audits ( 100,000); and
 T ax compliance and tax advisory services ( 300,000).
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve urgent engagements
not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying the Audit Committee
at its next meeting. A breakdown of fees paid to the external auditors during
the year is set out on page 56.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and
for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is monitored by the Audit Committee.
Key elements of this system include:
 Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved for
Board discussion;
 Clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate delegation 
of authority (adherence to which is kept under review);
 Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits;
 Review of the Group's accounting manuals and procedures; 
35
 Receipt of annual compliance statements from all statutory units within 
the Group, stating compliance with Group accounting manuals; and
 An effective Internal Audit function providing independent scrutiny of
internal control systems and risk management procedures.
Risk management is embedded within the day-to-day activities of 
all executives. Management of this area is the responsibility of the Group
Operating Committee. A significant element of this process is the maintenance
of a Group Risk Matrix (the  Matrix'). The Matrix contains both financial and
non-financial risks, identified through regular top-down and bottom-up reviews.
The Board believes that the Company operates an effective embedded
system of internal control and is confident that it complies with Internal Control
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (the  T urnbull Report').
Further information about the risk management processes is given on
pages 36 to 37 .
Combined Code compliance
During the year the Company complied with the Code except in the
following respect:
A4. 1 The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive,
the SID and a Non-Executive Director . Whilst the Board considers the Chairman
to be independent, membership of this Committee does not consist of a
majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the Code.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the
Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements.
Audit
Richard Adam
Anna Catalano
Susan Murray
Peter Read
Chairman
Chief Executive
Finance Director
External auditor
Head of Business Assurance
Financial Controller
Company Secretary
Review of financial statements,
including half-year and annual reports,
interim management statements and
considering the comments of the
external auditor thereon
Review of risk management and
internal control systems
Review of the Group's internal audit
processes, including approval of the
annual internal audit plan
Monitoring the provision of services 
by the external auditors and an annual
appraisal of their effectiveness as
auditors (see the policy on auditors'
independence on the previous page)
Committee Chairman
Members
Attending by invitation
Summary of the principal
activities of the Committees
during the year
Nomination
Peter Read
Richard Adam
Gerald Corbett
Garry Watts
Group HR Director
Company Secretary
Reviewing the size and composition 
of the Board including the mix of skills
and experience
Consideration of succession issues
Recommending the re-election 
of Directors at the Annual General
Meeting
Remuneration
Peter Read
Richard Adam
Anna Catalano
Gerald Corbett
Susan Murray
Chief Executive
Group HR Director
Company Secretary
Reviewing the remuneration policy
for the Executive Directors and the
Executive Committee
Developing proposals for an
enhancement to the Performance
Share Plan
(Further information on the work 
of this committee can be found in
the Remuneration Report on 
pages 39 to 45)
Board Committees membership and principal activities