 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005
C ORPORATE G OVERNANCE
Compliance statement
In the opinion of the board the Company has, with the exception of Provision A.4.1 (formation of Nomination
Committee), throughout the year complied with the Provisions of the Combined Code on corporate
governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 (the Code). The board has not formed
a Nomination Committee and applies an alternative process for the selection of new directors to the board.
The full board initially settles in each instance on a candidate profile. The full board then forms a panel of
directors, made up of those directors the board decides are best suited to the circumstances. This panel
first selects a recruitment consultant and then agrees on a long listing of applicants, conducting initial
interviews and agreeing a short list of prospective directors for further interview. All directors then
participate in interviewing prospective directors, whether executive or non-executive, prior to selecting the
preferred candidate.
The following section describes how the board has applied the other Principles and Supporting Principles
contained in the Code and, where appropriate, has adopted elements of corporate governance  good
practice'.
Board of directors
The board comprises an executive chairman, four non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Excluding ad hoc meetings to deal with procedural matters, the board met eight times during the year and
all directors attended all these meetings apart from those held on 30 September 2004 and on
31 March 2005. Dame Sue Tinson was unable to be present at either meeting and Lorraine Baldry was
absent from the latter meeting.
It is the opinion of the board that, throughout the year, each of the Company's non-executive directors was
independent for corporate governance purposes and free from any business or other relationship which
could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her judgement. In reaching this opinion the board has
carefully considered the balance between applying  good practice' and what it believes is in the
shareholders' best interests. David Wilbraham has served on the board for more than nine years. The
board's view, however, is that he displays every quality of independence in carrying out his responsibilities
as a non-executive director. He is prepared to challenge others' assumptions and viewpoints, questions
intelligently, debates constructively and has developed a sound understanding of the Group's business
which, allied to his independence of judgement, serves shareholders' interests well. The board has
concluded that, notwithstanding his length of tenure, David Wilbraham continues to be independent.
The non-executive directors each have a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities, which are
appropriately documented. The non-executive directors met during the year, without the Chairman being
present, and appraised the Chairman's performance. The non-executive directors also met separately with
the auditors. David Wilbraham fulfilled the role of Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
The board meets at regular intervals and is responsible to the shareholders for overall Group strategy,
acquisitions and divestments, major capital projects and financial matters.
During the year the board carried out a review of matters reserved to it for decision. These matters include
the approval of annual budgets of individual trading subsidiaries, major individual items of capital
expenditure, acquisitions and major procurement and supply contracts; the management of risks likely to
disrupt the ability of the Group or any subsidiary to carry on business or which might damage the reputation
of the Group as a whole in the eyes of its shareholders or the general public; and the management of
matters which might result in a substantial unplanned financial risk to any subsidiary.
The directors consider themselves collectively responsible for ensuring that risks arising from social,
environmental and ethical factors and the health and safety of the Group's employees are suitably managed
and are referred to the board, as necessary. The board has identified and assessed those financial, social,
environmental and ethical issues which may present a significant risk to the business.
19 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005
C ORPORATE G OVERNANCE continuedD IRECT
The board has established a process, led by the Chairman, for the evaluation of the board, its committees
and individual directors. This evaluation was carried out during the year and resultant recommendations
were considered by the board in September 2004 and implemented. After conducting a review of the
membership of the board and its principal committees the board decided that the make up of each was
appropriate to the business of the Group and the responsibilities and duties of each forum.
The roles of Chairman and Managing Director are separate and distinct and have been so since the
Company first obtained a Listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1985. An appropriate division of
responsibilities has been set out in writing and agreed by the board. During the year the board considered
succession planning.
Miles Emley holds an external non-executive directorship with Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries plc and
his fee for providing his services has been paid to the Company, in accordance with the board's policy.
The Company's Articles of Association require all directors to retire and offer themselves for re-appointment
by shareholders at least once every three years.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant information needed to enable them properly to
discharge their responsibilities. The procedure for directors to seek independent professional advice in the
furtherance of their duties and to be reimbursed their reasonable legal fees was reconfirmed during the
year, as was the right of each to have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. All
directors also have unrestricted access to other executives within the business to discuss any matter of
concern to them.
On appointment, each director receives an induction appropriate to their previous experience as a director
and their knowledge of the industry.
Board committees
Separate Audit and Remuneration Committees of the board exist, each with written terms of reference
which were reviewed and revised during the year. Copies of these terms of reference can be obtained from
the Secretary and are made available on the Group's corporate web site.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the committees.
Audit Committee
Throughout the year the Company's four independent non-executive directors, David Wilbraham (chairman
of the Committee), Lorraine Baldry, Simon Marquis and Dame Sue Tinson each served on the Audit
Committee.
The board is of the opinion that the Audit Committee includes sufficient relevant financial experience and
that the number of meetings held (three) during the year was sufficient for it to properly discharge its
business.
The Audit Committee met twice during year with the Group's external auditors: to agree the scope of the
audit and review the independence of the auditors, including the level of fees for audit and non-audit
services; and to review the results of the audit prior to the approval by the board of the Group's financial
statements. The Group Chairman and the Finance Director were also invited to attend each meeting to
ensure that committee members were fully informed and supported in carrying out their duties.
During the year the Audit Committee evaluated its performance, reviewed the Group's  Whistle-blowing
policy' and made a recommendation to the board that no circumstances had arisen to warrant the
establishment of an internal audit function. In addition, the Committee also reviewed the annual internal
control reviews performed by the operating sites and the controls over key business risks. The members
of the Audit Committee have been given specific approval by the board to meet with the Group's auditors
whenever they, or the auditors, consider it appropriate.
20
Board of directors continued S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005
ORS ' R EPORT continued
Remuneration Committee
Throughout the year the Remuneration Committee has been made up solely of independent non-executive
directors: David Wilbraham (chairman of the Committee), Lorraine Baldry, Simon Marquis and Dame Sue
Tinson. The Remuneration Committee met twice during the year which, in the opinion of the board, was
sufficient to discharge its business.
At the end of the year the Remuneration Committee formally evaluated its performance.
Internal control
The board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness. A workable and realistic
system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and, therefore, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
During the year the directors reviewed the need for an internal audit function and accepted the view of the
Audit Committee that the existing control environment, financial controls and the annual external audit of
all trading subsidiaries are sufficient.
The board believes that its internal control procedures, outlined below, have enabled the directors to report
in full compliance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
The board exercises these controls via monthly meetings of each division's senior management with the
Group's Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director present. All attendees receive agendas and
papers in advance of each meeting: detailed minutes are recorded and actions followed up. Regular items
for discussion encompass any areas of significant risk to the businesses, which are then raised at the next
meeting of the board when appropriate.
In addition, throughout the year the executive directors met at regular intervals with divisional managing
directors, the Company Secretary, the Group's director of personnel and the Group's technical director, as
an executive committee, to review the Group's businesses world-wide as an integral part of the Group's
internal control mechanism.
Annual internal control reviews are performed by all operating sites and any inconsistencies with the
Group's established corporate governance and authority limits regimes are identified and disclosed to the
Audit Committee. The board has also carried out its annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal control and the identification of and controls over key business risks which covers the
year under review and the period up to the date of this annual report.
Approved by the board of directors
and signed on its behalf by
Philip Harris
11 October 2005
21