 10
Corporate governance statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
As a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange, Staffline Group plc is not 
required to comply with the Combined Code (the Code ). However, the Board of Directors has considered the effects 
of the Code and taken steps to comply with the Code insofar as it can be applied practically, given the size of Staffline 
and the nature of its operations. The Group supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Group 
and a brief outline of the role of the Board and its committees, together with the Group's systems of internal financial 
control which the Board will continue to keep under review, is given below.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Finance Director, two Executive Directors and two 
Non-Executive Directors.  Biographies of the Directors appear below including who sits on which committee (A = Audit 
Committee, R = Remuneration Committee, N = Nominations Committee). The Non-Executive directors, although they 
have small shareholdings in the Company, are considered by the Board to be independent.
Shaun Brittain - Executive Director
Shaun Brittain joined the Group in August 2000 and the Board in February 2009. He was one of the Group's divisional 
directors, with responsibility for the largest region. He has made a significant contribution to the growth of Staffline's 
Onsite model and helped to shape the outsourcing development. Prior to that he spent 11 years at Blue Arrow, where he 
held senior roles, both operational and strategic. 
John Crabtree - Senior Independent Director (A, R, N)
John Crabtree joined the Board on 1 March 2005 as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. John was the senior partner of Wragge & Co, the Birmingham based corporate law firm and whilst in this 
role John was responsible for the firm's evolution into a practice with 100 partners and a turnover of  75m. John has a 
number of business interests, including being Non-Executive Chairman of Real Estate Investors plc, SLR Holdings Limited 
and TruckEast Ltd. In addition he is a director of Birmingham Hippodrome Theatre Trust and Advantage West Midlands.
Marshall Evans - Executive Director 
Having gained broad experience with P&O, NFC and Freightliners, Marshall spent six years as Operations Director of TIP 
Trailer Rental (TIP ), joining GE Capital when that company acquired TIP in 1993. He then spent four years as part of the 
acquisition team which purchased and integrated ten further companies, including TLS Vehicle Rental, into GE Capital 
and became an Executive Director of TLS. He joined Staffline and the Board in July 2002. Marshall is a board member of 
both the Gangmaster Licensing Authority and the Recruitment & Employment Confederation (the main UK trade body for 
recruitment agencies).
Andy Hogarth - Chairman and Chief Executive (R, N)
Andy has held senior roles in a wide range of businesses including retail, support services, healthcare, hospitality and 
construction. As Finance Director he led the MBO and subsequent trade sale in 2002 of Pipeline Constructors Group, a 
 100m utility services business. He is currently Executive Chairman and CEO of Staffline Group plc, Non-Executive 
Chairman of Carnell Support Services Ltd, sits on the board of an elderly care charity and is a Director of Hogarths Hotel, 
a boutique hotel in Solihull. He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA) as well as a 
Master Practitioner of Neuro-Linguistic Programming and a Certified NLP coach. He joined Staffline in 2002 as Finance 
Director, becoming Managing Director in 2005 and Chairman in 2009.
Tim Jackson - Finance Director
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Grant Thornton Tim spent nine years in various financial and commercial 
roles at Salvesen Logistics Plc. He then spent 7 years at Redbridge Holdings Limited culminating in the position of 
Finance Director of its food service division, Redbridge Fresh Services. As Finance Director of SG Maintenance Services 
Limited he was instrumental in the operational and finance side of the business and its eventual disposal, before joining 
Applied Language Solutions Limited, a fast growing translation business, as Finance Director. He joined Staffline as 
Finance Director in December 2008. He remains a non-executive director of Applied Language Solutions Limited.
Nicholas Keegan - Non-Executive Director (A, R, N)
Nicholas is a qualified Chartered Accountant, who after spending 10 years in investment banking was Finance Director  
of a number of quoted and unquoted West Midland companies, including Newman Tonks Group plc and Frederick 
Cooper plc. He was from 2005 until 2009 Chief Financial Officer of CompAir Holdings Limited, a venture capital backed 
international manufacturing business. He was a Non-Executive Director of Interserve plc from 2003 until 2009. He joined 
Staffline in November 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.  11
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and 
performance. The Annual General Meeting will be used to communicate with all investors and they are encouraged  
to participate. The Directors will be available to answer questions. Separate resolutions will be proposed on each issue 
so that they can be given proper consideration and there will be a formal resolution to approve the Annual Report  
and Accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' interests and the 
Group's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal financial control is designed to provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Nicholas Keegan, has met four times during the year and is responsible for ensuring 
that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported on, as well as meeting the auditors and 
reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and internal control systems. During the year the Group has 
again performed a risk identification exercise with mitigating actions implemented.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by John Crabtree has met four times during the year. It is responsible for 
determining the level of remuneration to be paid to the Executive Directors.  A separate report on remuneration is 
contained on pages 13 to 15.
The Nominations Committee, chaired by John Crabtree has met twice during the year. It is responsible for ensuring that 
the balance of the board is appropriate to control and direct the business.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size and complexity of the Group 
does not justify it at present. However, it will keep this decision under annual review.
The Directors keep a register of risks faced by the business, rating these risks on a scale of 1 to 5 for both probability 
and impact. These risks have been mitigated to the extent considered practical and are reviewed annually. The Directors 
have identified the following key risks and uncertainties facing the Group:  
Risks
 	 Because of the industries in which the Group specialises, principally food processing, the Directors consider the 
Group likely to be relatively less affected than others in the sector during a general economic downturn. However, 
this sector is subject to great change and consolidation as the buying power of major retailers continues to drive the 
need for rationalisation and greater economies of scale. We are at risk if our clients lose business in this process. We 
continue to counter this risk by expanding our client base and can expect to gain as much business as we lose if we 
have a wide enough spread of clients. 
 	 Because we allow credit to our clients we are at risk if one of them runs into financial difficulties and is unable to pay 
their outstanding debt. To minimise the risks we monitor client payment patterns, subscribe to a monitoring service 
and employ pro-active credit control systems. To date these actions have been successful and the total bad debt 
charge to the Group in the last three years, excluding VAT, has been  50,000 on sales of  441m, equating to 0.01% of 
sales. 
 	 We face the risk that one of our members of staff may deliberately by-pass the procedures set up to ensure we fully 
comply with all legislative requirements. Although the systems we have should detect most of such acts there is a 
reputational and financial risk to the business should someone deliberately choose to do this.
 	 Major failure of IT systems. The Group has a robust Disaster Recovery plan in place in the event of a major internal 
failure of our IT systems, which has proven to be successful three times in the past five years. However as our 
business grows we become ever more reliant on third party telecommunication and other providers, including BT, 
BACS and Project Telecom. A major failure by any of these suppliers might prove very disruptive.
 	 Competition. The Group operates in a sector where there are a significant number of competitors and barriers to 
entry are relatively low. To counter the threat of competitors seeking to win business from us the Group aims to build 
strong long term relationships with its customers through excellent service levels and through its rigorous selection 
and checking procedures which ensure that all contractors provided by the Group are fully compliant with the  
legal requirements. 12
Corporate governance statement (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Uncertainties
 	 The recovery of the UK from recession may impact the Group in both positive and negative ways. The core business 
model, with its emphasis on the food-production sector is considered relatively defensive as food consumption in the 
home should not be significantly impacted. The recovery may provide some opportunities if clients seek to use 
temporary staff in lieu of replacing permanent employees. The exposure to permanent recruitment is minimal as 
permanent appointments represent under 1% of Group sales.
 	 Onerous changes in the regulatory framework, driven by potential European or UK legislation, could lead to greatly 
increased employment costs which might lead to a reduction in demand for our temporary workers.
Going concern
In considering the ongoing funding requirements of the Group, the directors have prepared detailed cash flow forecasts 
extending to March 2012 and these indicate that the Group expects to be able to continue to operate within its existing 
bank facilities for the foreseeable future. The Group enjoys a strong working relationship with its bank and had undrawn 
overdraft facilities of  7.5m at 31 December 2010. Coupled with a strong financial performance for the year ended  
31 December 2010 and a strong start to 2011 the directors are of the view that it remains appropriate for the financial 
statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.