 7
Statement by the directors on compliance with
the provisions of the Combined Code
The Group takes steps to apply principles of corporate
governance commensurate with its size notwithstanding
that the rules of the Financial Services Authority do not
require companies that have securities traded on the
Alternative Investment Market to formally comply with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Group supports the concept of an effective Board
leading and controlling the Group and a brief outline of 
the role of the Board and its committees, together with 
the Group's systems of internal financial control which 
the Board will continue to keep under review, is given
below.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman,
the Managing Director, the Finance Director, the Operations
Director and two Non-Executive Directors. Biographies 
of the Directors appear below including who sits on 
which committee (A = Audit Committee, R = Remuneration
Committee, N = Nominations Committee).The Non-
Executive directors, although they have small 
shareholdings in the Company, can be considered
independent.
Derek Mapp - Non-Executive Chairman (N, R) 
Derek has been a director of the Board since September
2004. He has previous positions in an executive capacity in
Tom Cobleigh plc, Leapfrog day Nurseries Limited (98-04)
and Imagesound plc (current). Currently he is Senior
Independent Director of Informa plc and Chairman of
Salmon Developments plc. In the last 10 years he has held a
number of Government positions being Chairman of the
East Midlands Development Agency and Sport England and
a board director of English Partnerships, none of which he
currently holds. He is Chairman of the Nominations
Committee.
Andy Hogarth - Managing Director
Andy's previous experience in recruitment was as a
franchisee for Adecco. Having sold this business he went on
to train as an accountant and is now a Fellow of the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. He joined
Pipeline Constructors Group plc as Finance Director and
then headed a management buyout of that group in 1995.
This investment gave the venture capital backers, 3i and ISIS,
a 25% compound return over 6 years. In this period sales
grew from  17m to  75m whilst profits grew tenfold.
Following the sale of Pipeline to Morgan Sindall plc, Andy
joined Staffline in August 2002, initially as Finance Director,
becoming the Managing Director in February 2003.
He has had experience of buying, growing and selling
businesses in a number of sectors.
Nicholas Francis Keegan - Non-Executive Director
(A,R,N)
Nicholas is a qualified Chartered Accountant and after 10
years in investment banking has been Finance Director of a
number of quoted and unquoted West Midland companies,
including Newman Tonks Group plc until 1997. He is
currently Finance Director of CompAir Holdings Limited, a
venture capital backed international manufacturing
business and is a Non-Executive Director of Interserve plc.
He joined Staffline in November 2004 and is Chairman of the
Audit Committee.
Carole Harvey - Finance Director 
Carole joined the Board in September 2005 as Finance
Director. Having held a variety of functional finance roles, the
last one as Commercial Finance Manager for Boots plc,
Carole has spent the last eight years in senior management
roles, the last two being General Manager of Halfords and
Commercial Director of Boots Wellbeing Services, taking the
division from a  30m loss to breakeven.
Marshall Evans - Operations Director 
Having gained broad experience with P&O, NFC and
Freightliners, Marshall spent six years as Operations Director
of TIP Trailer Rental (TIP ), joining GE Capital when that
company acquired TIP in 1993. He then spent four years as
part of the acquisition team which purchased and
integrated ten further companies, including TLS Vehicle
Rental, into GE Capital and became an Executive Director of
TLS. He joined Staffline in July 2002.
John Crabtree - Non-Executive Director (A,R,N)
John Crabtree joined the Board on 1 March 2005 as a 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee. John was until recently the senior partner of
Wragge & Co, the Birmingham based corporate law firm.
Whilst in this role John was responsible for the firm's
evolution into a practice with 100 partners and a turnover of
 75m. John has a number of business interests, including
being Non-Executive Chairman of Metalrax Group plc, SLR
Holdings Limited, Claimar Care Group plc and Birmingham
Hippodrome Theatre Trust. In addition he is a director of
Advantage West Midlands and Warwick Racecourse
Company Limited.
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and
recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and
performance.The Annual General Meeting will be used to
communicate with all investors and they are encouraged to
participate.The Directors will be available to answer
questions. Separate resolutions will be proposed on each
issue so that they can be given proper consideration and
there will be a formal resolution to approve the Annual
Report and Accounts
Corporate Governance
Staffline Recruitment Group plc
for the year ended 31 December 2007
78121 Staffline txt07  17/4/08  20:27  Page 7 8
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of
internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and
the Group's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.The
system of internal financial control is designed to provide
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Nicholas Keegan, has met
three times during the year and is responsible for ensuring
that the financial performance of the Group is properly
monitored and reported on, as well as meeting the auditors
and reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding
accounts and internal control systems. During the year the
Group has again performed a risk identification exercise
with mitigating actions implemented.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by John Crabtree has
met twice during the year. It is responsible for determining
the level of remuneration to be paid to the Executive
Directors. A separate report on remuneration is contained
on pages 9 and 10.
A Nominations Committee has been formed comprising of
the three Non-Executive Directors, which has not met in 2007.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit
function but has decided the size and complexity of the
Group does not justify it at present. However, it will keep this
decision under annual review.
The directors keep a register of risks faced by the business,
rating these risks on a scale of 1 to 5 for both probability and
impact.These risks have been mitigated to the extent
considered practical and are reviewed half yearly.The
Directors have identified the following key risks and
uncertainties facing the Group:
Risks
  Because of the industries in which the Group specialises,
principally food processing, the Directors consider the
Group likely to be relatively less affected than others in
the sector in the event of a general economic downturn.
However, this sector is subject to great change and
consolidation as the buying power of major retailers
continues to drive the need for rationalisation and
greater economies of scale.We are at risk if our clients
lose business in this process.We continue to counter this
risk by expanding our client base and can expect to gain
as much business as we lose if we have a wide enough
spread of clients.
  Because we allow credit to our clients we are at risk if
one of them runs into financial difficulties and is unable
to pay their outstanding debt.To minimise the risks we
monitor client payment patterns, subscribe to a
monitoring service and employ pro-active credit control
systems.To date these actions have been successful and
the total bad debt charge to the Group in the last three
years, excluding VAT, has been  116,000 on sales of  315
million, equating to 0.04% of sales.
  We face the risk that one of our members of staff may
deliberately by-pass the procedures set up to ensure we
fully comply with all legislative requirements. Although
the systems we have will detect most of such acts within
35 days there is a reputational and financial risk to the
business should someone deliberately choose to do this.
  Major failure of IT systems.The Group has a robust
Disaster Recovery plan in place in the event of a major
internal failure of our IT systems, which has proven to be
successful twice in the past four years. However as our
business grows we become ever more reliant on third
party telecommunication and other providers, including
BT, BACS and Kingston Communications. A major failure
by any of these suppliers might prove very disruptive.
  Competition.The Group operates in a sector where
there are a significant number of competitors and
barriers to entry are relatively low.To counter the threat
of competitors seeking to win business from us the
Group aims to build strong long term relationships with
its customers through excellent service levels and
through its rigorous selection and checking procedures
which ensure that all contractors provided by the Group
are fully compliant with the legal requirements.
Uncertainties
  The extent of any forecast UK recession may impact the
Group in both positive and negative ways.The core
business model, with its emphasis on the food-
production sector is considered relatively defensive as
food consumption in the home should not be
significantly impacted. A recession may provide some
opportunities if clients seek to use temporary staff in lieu
of replacing permanent employees.The exposure to
permanent recruitment is minimal as permanent
appointments represent only 3% of Group sales.
  Onerous changes in the regulatory framework, driven by
potential European or UK legislation, could lead to
greatly increased employment costs which might lead
to a reduction in demand for our temporary workers.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance continued
Staffline Recruitment Group plc
for the year ended 31 December 2007
78121 Staffline txt07  17/4/08  20:27  Page 8