 7
Statement by the directors on compliance with
the provisions of the Combined Code
The Group takes steps to apply principles of corporate
governance commensurate with its size notwithstanding
that the rules of the Financial Services Authority do not
require companies that have securities traded on the
Alternative Investment Market to formally comply with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Group supports the concept of an effective Board
leading and controlling the Group and a brief outline of the
role of the Board and its committees, together with the
Group's systems of internal financial control which the
Board will continue to keep under review is given below.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman,
the Managing Director, the Finance Director, the Operations
Director and two Non-Executive Directors. Biographies of
the Directors appear below including who sits on which
committee (A = Audit Committee, R = Remuneration
Committee, N = Nominations Committee).The Non-
Executive directors, although they have small shareholdings
in the Company, can be considered independent.
Derek Mapp - Non-Executive Chairman (N) (R) 
Derek joined the Board in September 2004. Following a
series of positions within the brewing industry he formed
the public house chain Tom Cobleigh plc floating it in 1995
before it was taken over in 1996 by the Rank Group plc. In
1999 he formed Leapfrog Day Nurseries plc selling this
organisation to Nord Anglia in 2004. He went on to float
Imagesound plc on the AIM market later in 2004. In
December 2004 Derek stepped down from the chair of the
East Midlands Development Agency after two three year
terms. He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Sport
England and Executive Chairman of Imagesound plc. Derek
is also the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Andy Hogarth - Managing Director
Andy's previous experience in recruitment was as a
franchisee for Adecco. Having sold this business he went on
to train as an accountant and is now a Fellow of the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. He joined
Pipeline Constructors Group plc as Finance Director and
then headed a management buyout of that group in 1995.
This investment gave the venture capital backers, 3i and ISIS,
a 25% compound return over 6 years. In this period sales
grew from  17m to  75m whilst profits grew tenfold.
Following the sale of Pipeline to Morgan Sindall plc, Andy
joined Staffline in August 2002, initially as Finance Director,
becoming the Managing Director in February 2003. He has
had experience of buying, growing and selling businesses in
a number of sectors.
Nicholas Francis Keegan - Non-Executive Director
(A,R,N)
Nicholas is a qualified Chartered Accountant and after 10
years in investment banking has been Finance Director of a
number of quoted and unquoted West Midland companies,
including Newman Tonks Group plc until 1997. He is
currently Finance Director of CompAir Holdings Limited, a
venture capital backed manufacturing business and is a
Non-Executive Director of Interserve plc. He joined Staffline
in November 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Carole Harvey - Finance Director 
Carole joined the Board in September 2005 as Finance
Director. Having held a variety of functional finance roles, the
last one as Commercial Finance Manager for Boots plc,
Carole has spent the last eight years in senior management
roles, the last two being General Manager of Halfords and
Commercial Director of Boots Wellbeing Services, taking the
division from a  30m loss to breakeven. Carole is a Chartered
Management Accountant & MBA.
Marshall Evans - Operations Director 
Having gained broad experience with P&O, NFC and
Freightliners, Marshall spent six years as Operations Director
of TIP Trailer Rental (TIP ), joining GE Capital when that
company acquired TIP in 1993. He then spent four years as
part of the acquisition team which purchased and
integrated ten further companies, including TLS Vehicle
Rental, into GE Capital and became an Executive Director of
TLS. He joined Staffline in July 2002.
John Crabtree - Non-Executive Director (A,R,N)
John Crabtree joined the Board on 1 March 2005 as a 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee. John was until recently the senior partner of
Wragge & Co, the Birmingham based corporate law firm.
Whilst in this role John was responsible for the firm's
evolution into a practice with 100 partners and a turnover of
 75m. John has a number of business interests, including
being Non-Executive Chairman of Metalrax Group plc, SLR
Holdings Limited, Claimar Care Group plc and Birmingham
Hippodrome Theatre Trust. In addition he is a director of
Advantage West Midlands and Warwick Racecourse
Company Limited, president of the Birmingham Chamber of
Commerce and High Sheriff of the West Midlands.
Corporate Governance
Staffline Recruitment Group plc
for the year ended 31 December 2006 8
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and
recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and
performance.The Annual General Meeting will be used to
communicate with all investors and they are encouraged to
participate.The Directors will be available to answer 
questions. Separate resolutions will be proposed on each issue
so that they can be given proper consideration and there 
will be a formal resolution to approve the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of
internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and
the Group's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal financial control is designed to
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
An Audit Committee has been established, chaired by
Nicholas Keegan, which has met three times during the year
and is responsible for ensuring that the financial
performance of the Group is properly monitored and
reported on, as well as meeting the auditors and reviewing
any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and
internal control systems. As a result of this overview the
Group has performed a risk identification exercise that has
resulted in a review of internal controls and the creation of a
whistle blowing process.
A Remuneration Committee has been established, chaired
by John Crabtree and has met once during the year. It is
responsible for determining the level of remuneration to be
paid to the Executive Directors. A separate report on
remuneration is contained on pages 10 and 11.
A Nominations Committee has been formed comprising of
the Non-Executive Directors which has not met in 2006.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit
function but has decided the size and complexity of the
Group does not justify it at present. However, it will keep this
decision under annual review.
The Directors keep a register of risks faced by the business,
rating these risks on a scale of 1 to 5 for both probability and
impact.These risks have been mitigated to the extent
possible and are reviewed on a quarterly basis.The directors
are required by the Companies Act to disclose the principal
risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the following issues
have been identified.
Risks
  Because of the sectors in which the Group specialises,
principally food processing, the directors do not
consider the Group likely to be vulnerable in the 
event of a general economic downturn. However,
this sector is subject to great change and consolidation
as the buying power of major retailers continues to 
drive the need for rationalisation and greater economies 
of scale.We are at risk if our clients lose business in this
process.We continue to counter this risk by expanding
our client base and can expect to gain as much business
as we lose if we have a wide enough spread of clients.
  Because we allow credit to our clients we are at risk if
one of them runs into financial trouble and is unable to
pay their outstanding debt.To minimise the risks we
monitor client payment patterns, subscribe to a
monitoring service and employ pro-active credit control
systems.To date these actions have been successful and
the total bad debt charge to the Group in the last three
years, excluding VAT, has been  78k on Sales of  195m.
  We face the risk that one of our members of staff may
deliberately by-pass the procedures set up to ensure we
fully comply with all legislative requirements. Although
the systems we have will detect any such act within 
35 days there is a reputational and financial risk to the
business should someone deliberately choose to do this.
  The Group has a robust Disaster Recovery plan in place
in the event of a major internal failure of our IT systems,
which has proven to be successful twice in the past four
years. However as our business grows we become ever
more reliant on third party telecommunication and
other providers, including BT, BACS and Kingston
communications. A major failure by any of these
suppliers might prove very disruptive.
Corporate Governance continued
Staffline Recruitment Group plc
for the year ended 31 December 2006 9
  Competition.The Group operates in a sector where
there are a significant number of competitors and
barriers to entry are relatively low.To counter the threat
of competitors seeking to win business from us the
Group aims to build strong long term relationships with
its customers through excellent service levels and
through its rigorous selection and checking procedures
which ensure that all contractors provided by Staffline
are fully compliant with the legal requirements.
Uncertainties
  There has been a recent case of bird flu in East Anglia,
which has resulted in a drop in demand for processed
chicken meat. If this were to continue we might see a
drop in demand for labour in this sector. Historically less
than 2% of our workforce has been involved in the
processing of chickens although that figure is likely to
increase by the middle of 2007 following a number of
poultry sector client wins. However, any shift in
consumer demand to other products is likely to benefit
us since we have a higher proportion of our business in
other meat production areas.
  Onerous changes in the regulatory framework, driven 
by potential European legislation, could lead to greatly
increased employment costs which might lead to a
reduction in demand for our temporary workers.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.