 Page 30 | www.statpro.com
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Corporate Governance
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Company transferred its listing on 16 June 2003 from the London Stock Exchange Main List to the Alternative Investment Market of the 
London Stock Exchange (AIM ).  The directors believe that it was appropriate for the Company to move to AIM to take advantage of the greater 
degree of flexibility afforded by this market.  As a result, the Company is not required to follow the Combined Code, which applies only to fully 
listed companies.  Nevertheless, the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the 
Company's shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the 
Company and the Company's compliance with the Code provisions.  The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in the 
Combined Code during the year except as noted below.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and three non-executive directors and is responsible to 
shareholders for the proper management of the Group.  The Board considers Charles Fairbairn to be the senior independent director. Dominic 
Wheatley, a non-executive director, is the brother of Justin Wheatley, Chief Executive, but in all matters concerning the Group acts independently. 
Directors' biographies appear on pages 22 and 23 and demonstrate a range of relevant experience bringing independent judgement to bear on 
issues of strategy, performance, resources, industry knowledge and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group. 
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information. The Board meets at least quarterly 
and has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring that it exercises control over appropriate 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. At these meetings the Board reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, 
sets and monitors strategy, examines investment and acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders.  The directors can also 
take independent professional advice as appropriate at the Company's expense.  The following committees have been established to deal with 
specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
Operating Board
The Board has established an executive committee (the Operating Board ), which comprises the executive directors together with other senior 
executives of the Group who meet once a month to discuss operational and strategic matters. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Chairman (an executive director), Charles Fairbairn and Mark Adorian, and meets at least twice annually. 
The Company therefore did not comply during the year with D.3.1 of the Code, which requires at least three non-executive directors, a majority 
of whom should be independent.  However, whilst the Chairman's role is executive, his operational role with the core business is limited, and as 
such, the Board considers the composition of this committee appropriate.  The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's 
external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Finance Director.   
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the half-year and annual accounts before their 
submission to the Board and monitoring the controls, which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information, reported to shareholders. 
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of external auditors and their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work and discusses the 
nature and scope of the audit.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for executive directors, including 
performance-related bonus schemes and participation in the Group's Long Term Share Option Schemes. The Remuneration Committee is chaired 
by Charles Fairbairn and comprises the non-executive directors. Section B.2.2 of the Code requires the Remuneration Committee to comprise 
only independent non-executive directors. Dominic Wheatley, a non-executive director, is the brother of Justin Wheatley, Chief Executive, but in 
all matters concerning the Group is considered by the Board to be  independent. 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Dominic Wheatley and currently comprises Carl Bacon, Charles Fairbairn and Mark Adorian. The 
Nomination Committee undertakes the function of nominating appointments to the Board, although all such appointments are reviewed and 
approved by the full Board. 
The Remuneration Report, which includes details of directors' remuneration, pension entitlements and directors' interests, together with information 
on service contracts is set out on pages 32 to 36. 
Sales Strategy Committee
The Group's sales strategy is reviewed and controlled at a series of Sales Strategy Committee meetings. This committee ensures that the sales 
and marketing effort is invested in the most appropriate regions and distribution channels to maximise the long-term commercial potential of 
sales of our products and services.
Product Strategy Committee
The Group's product and development strategy is reviewed and controlled at a series of Product Strategy Committee meetings. This committee 
ensures products, whether acquired or developed internally, are designed to meet clients' current and future requirements, and are developed in 
a cost effective manner.   www.statpro.com | Page 31 
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and market analysts including 
presentations after the Company's preliminary announcement of the annual and interim results and other major announcements. 
Internal controls and risk management 
The Board is formally required to review and report on the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls in accordance with the Combined 
Code.  This review is required to address not only internal financial controls but other risks and controls of the business.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Company's system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate business risks and which provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss. 
The Company has established risk management procedures, appropriate to a group of its size and complexity, and during the year, the internal 
controls and risk management procedures were reviewed by the directors.  The Company has a Group Risk Manual, which sets out the key risks by 
function and by region and the controls in place to manage the risks and identifies actions to be taken to improve risk management processes. Given 
the size and nature of the business the directors consider that the Group is compliant with the requirements of The Turnbull Report. A statement 
of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on page 28 and a statement on going concern is shown below. 
Each director is responsible for managing risks in his or her function or region and making regular reports on risk issues to both the main Board 
and Operating Board. This risk analysis covers all business risks including commercial, financial, operational, legal and environmental risks. These 
reports include the potential impact to the business of each key risk and its likelihood. The Board is thus able to monitor the risk profile for all 
significant business risks. Recommendations on internal controls and risk improvement are reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.  Risk 
awareness is further embedded within the business at a series of off-site review meetings during the year extending to Operating Board members 
and other senior managers.
 
Financial controls
The Group has established written expenditure approval, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control 
procedures together with accounting policies and procedures, which are approved by the Board.
Budgetary process 
Each year the Board approves the annual budget and key risk areas are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action is taken throughout 
the year through regular reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the year together with information on the 
key risk areas.
Investment appraisal 
Major capital and other project expenditure is controlled by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For capital expenditure above specified 
levels, and for acquisitions and disposals, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board for approval. 
Internal audit 
The Group currently does not have an internal audit function as the directors consider this to be inappropriate given the current size of the Group. 
However, this situation will be reviewed by the Board from time to time.
Going concern
After making reasonable enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 
GFMT Wheatley
Company Secretary
26 March 2004