 Above all other objectives, the Board (whose biographies are set out
in this report) is there to ensure that the Group provides long term
and sustainable growth for its shareholders.
Good corporate governance assists in the promotion of this growth
by ensuring that there is effective authority and accountability
throughout an organisation. The base that the Group uses for this is
the 2006 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council
(Code) which sets out best practice of how a company should be run.
Whilst the Group was incorporated in Guernsey and hence was not
required under law to comply with the Combined Code, the Board
is committed to its standards. 
The purpose of this report is to show how the Group complies with
the Code and, on the rare occasions where it does not, explain the
reason for non-compliance.
The Board - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by
different individuals in order to provide segregation of roles. 
The Chairman's role is to manage the Board of Directors, ensure that
the Non-Executives are committed to their positions and are able to
contribute to the management of the Group as a whole. 
The Chief Executive Officer's role is to implement strategy laid down
by the Board of Directors and to manage the Group and its operations.
Board balance and independence
The Board now consists of 10 individuals of whom six (including the
Chairman) are independent Non-Executive and four are Executive
Directors. It is considered that this expanded board provides the
appropriate balance of skill sets and experience whilst remaining of
a practical and manageable size. 
Senior Independent Director 
Nick Watts has been appointed as Senior Independent Director of
the Group, his role is to: 
Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot
be dealt with by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer.
Attend institutional and analyst briefings, in addition to the Chief
Executive Officer and his team.
Meet with the Non-Executive members of the Board at least
once a year without the presence of the Chairman or the
Executive Directors in order to review the Chairman's
performance in his role and also the Chairman's relationship
with the Chief Executive Officer.
Company Secretary and independent advice
The Company Secretary's role is to act as advisor to the Board on
matters relating to Corporate Governance and, in conjunction with
the Chairman, to ensure good information flows between the Board,
its various committees, the Non-Executive and Executive Directors
and Senior members of the Executive Team.
Richard Butcher, the Company Secretary was appointed on 1
March 2008 upon the Group's move to the UK for tax purposes.
Richard is an employee of one of the Group's subsidiaries but not
a Director of the Group. The Non-Executive Directors have access
to his advice and services in addition to independent, professional
advice if required (at the Group's expense).
Matters reserved to the Board and how it operates
In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed a formal
schedule of matters requiring its decision. This schedule is available
on the Group's website. In summary, those matters reserved to the
Board include:
Strategy of the Group.
Being alert to market and other prevalent conditions and their
potential consequence on the Group and the environment in
which it operates.
Continuing review of Group performance against its forecasts.
Consideration and approval of financial results, dividend policy
and payments.
Capital structure and any debt funding of the Group.
Approval of financial and other commitments above those
delegated to the Executive.
Monitoring internal control and risk management.
Appointment of the Executive Directors on the recommendation
of the Nomination Committee.
In previous years, the Board has met on a quarterly basis with
additional ad-hoc meetings as required. Following the Group's move
to the UK, the number of board meetings to take place will be at least
eight per annum with one of these meetings being a two day
meeting to discuss strategy for the following review period.
Corporate Governance Report
Stobart Group Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
Corporate Governance
49137_NEW_StobartA&R_Text_17_24:49137_NEW_StobartA&R_Text_17_24  19/5/08  16:37  Page 21 The Board met for six scheduled meetings during the course of the
14 months under review and attendance at such board meetings by
individual Directors is set out below:
Director Number of Number of
meetings attended meetings possible
Rodney Baker-Bates 6 6
Tim Chesney 5 6
William Kay 5 6
Iain Stokes 5 6
Nick Watts 5 5
Board meetings are an opportunity, for example, for the Non-
Executive Directors to challenge performance of the various
divisions against targets and KPIs set, to review transactions which
have taken place since the preceding meeting and to receive
reports from the Board's committees.
Board proceedings are recorded in comprehensive minutes which
permit any director to record their views if they have any concerns
which the Board cannot satisfactorily resolve. No such concerns
were voiced during this period.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee which is
required to meet at least once a year or more often, if so required, in
order to make recommendations to the Board on the composition,
balance and membership of the Board. 
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments
and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and
composition of the Board and succession planning for Directors and
Senior Executives. 
The Committee's members are Rodney Baker-Bates (Chairman), Tim
Chesney, Andrew Tinkler and Nick Watts.
Information, induction and professional development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all Directors receive
comprehensive information on a regular basis to enable them to
perform their duties properly. Board papers are normally distributed
five days in advance of scheduled board meetings. 
New Directors receive appropriate induction on joining the Board,
typically including meeting members of the senior management
team and visits to operational sites. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with. 
Board/Director evaluation and training
The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual appraisals with
Executive Directors and has regular one-to-one discussions about
their performance with them, as does the Chairman with the Chief
Executive. Over the next year, the Board intends to conduct an
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and
individual Directors. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board considers risk assessment, implementation of mitigating
actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving the
Group's strategy.
The system of internal control is based upon:
The Board's overall responsibility.
Regular and at least annual review by the Board and the Audit
Committee.
Compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005.
Support by company policies in other areas such as finance.
Management rather than elimination of the risk of failure to achieve
strategic objectives. It can also only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness
of internal control (including financial, operational and compliance
controls together with risk management in accordance with the
Code) over the period of this report, and to the date of its publication
and confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses have been
identified. If they had been, the Board confirms that the necessary
actions would have been taken to remedy them.
22 Stobart Group Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Corporate Governance Report, continued
49137_NEW_StobartA&R_Text_17_24:49137_NEW_StobartA&R_Text_17_24  19/5/08  16:37  Page 22 Audit Committee Membership
With effect from 1 March 2008, the Audit Committee is chaired by
Michael Kayser and its other members are Rodney Baker-Bates and
Nigel Rawlings. The Company Secretary acts as its Secretary.
Michael Kayser is considered by the Board and the Nomination
Committee to hold the requisite recent and relevant financial
experience. In the period under review, Iain Stokes chaired the Audit
Committee and its members were the other Non-Executive
Directors of the Board at that time.
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee from 1 March 2008
(which are available on the Group's website) require it to meet at
least three times per year. During the period under review, the Audit
Committee met on two occasions with attendance as set out in the
table below:
Number of Audit Committee Meetings in period 2
Member Number of meetings attended
Rodney Baker-Bates 2
Tim Chesney 2
William Kay 2
Iain Stokes 2
Nick Watts 2
The quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is any two members.
Only members of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary
are permitted to attend meetings. However, the Chief Financial
Officer and the Group's external auditors will normally be invited to
attend meetings. At least once a year, the Audit Committee will
meet with the external auditors without the Chief Financial Officer
or any other Executive Directors present.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is to establish formal and transparent
arrangements for considering how to apply the financial reporting
and internal control principles and to maintain an appropriate
relationship with the external auditors. 
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial
statements, internal financial controls and internal audit functions.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board in
relation to the appointment of the Group's external auditors. 
Stobart Group Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
Corporate Governance
49137_NEW_StobartA&R_Text_17_24:49137_NEW_StobartA&R_Text_17_24  19/5/08  16:37  Page 23