 23  Strategic Thought Group plc   Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance
The Company is quoted on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock 
Exchange (AIM).  The regulatory requirements of AIM do not require the Company to 
follow the Combined Code which applies to fully listed companies.  Nevertheless, the 
Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance to the extent that it 
is practicable and appropriate for a Group of our size.  This statement describes how 
some of the recommendations outlined in the Combined Code 2006 are implemented 
by the Group.
the Board
The Chairman of the Board, Lynton Barker, who 
was appointed to the Board in November 2008, 
is one of the four independent Non-executive 
Directors.  This number will reduce to three, 
following the 2009 Annual General Meeting 
( AGM').  The Board considers that all Non-
executive Directors are independent in accordance 
with the Code.  In assessing independence, the 
Board weighed a number of factors including 
whether each Non-executive Director is objective, 
provides a challenge to management, is prepared 
to challenge the views of others, demonstrates 
a good understanding of the business, has the 
best interests of the Company in mind and has no 
relationships or circumstances that are likely to 
affect his judgement.
The Board comprises the Non-executive 
Chairman, Lynton Barker, two Executive Directors, 
Martin Metcalf and Andrew Darby, one Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director, Simon 
Ricketts and two independent Non-executive 
Directors, Peter Morgan and Alastair Gordon, who 
was appointed to the Board in November 2008.  
The Board collectively has a wide range of relevant 
business, financial and international experience 
which is vital to the success of the Group.  Each 
of the Directors has significant knowledge of 
the technology business combined with general 
business skills.
The Code calls for the re-election of one third of 
the Directors at each AGM.  Accordingly Martin 
Metcalf is standing for re-election.  Simon Ricketts 
is retiring and is not standing for re-election.
The Non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role 
in corporate accountability by bringing their 
independent judgement to bear on issues brought 
before the Board and Board committees.  They 
bring considerable knowledge and experience 
from other areas of business and public life and 
their views carry significant weight in the Board's 
decisions.  They also meet as a group from time to 
time without the Executive Directors being present 
to consider the performances of the Executive 
Directors.
The Board met seventeen times throughout the 
year and all the necessary information is supplied 
to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to 
discharge their duties effectively.  The Board has a 
statement of responsibilities and is presented with 
an agenda and supporting documentation prior 
to each Board meeting.  It is responsible for the 
overall management of the Group and the approval 
of its long term objectives and strategy. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for decision by it, thus 
ensuring that it exercises control over appropriate 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance 
issues.  At these meetings the Board reviews 
trading performance, ensures adequate financing, 
monitors strategy, examines investment and 
acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to 
shareholders.  The Non-executive Directors can 
also take independent advice as appropriate at the 
Company's expense.
Each Committee of the Board has written terms of 
reference which have each been reviewed by the 
relevant Committee in the last year. 24 Strategic Thought Group plc   Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Board evaluation
The performance of the Board and its sub-
committees is formally evaluated annually by the 
Board as a whole through completion of a formal 
questionnaire.  The results of the questionnaire 
are then discussed by the Board and appropriate 
actions are taken.
t raining
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all 
new Board members are equipped to fulfil their 
duties and responsibilities.  There is an induction 
programme for new Directors and they are kept up 
to date with any significant changes in the law.
management committee
The Board has established a Management 
Committee which comprises the Executive 
Directors together with other senior Executives of 
the Group.  They meet once a quarter to discuss 
strategic and operational matters and the key 
issues from the meetings are presented to the 
Board.  
Remuneration and nomination committee
The Remuneration and Nominations Committee 
comprises all four Non-executive Directors.  During 
the year, Lynton Barker assumed responsibility 
for the Chairmanship from Simon Ricketts.  It 
met on two occasions in the past year.  It reviews 
the remuneration of each of the Executive 
Directors and sets the scale and structure of 
their remuneration and other benefits.  The 
Remuneration Committee report can be found on 
pages 20 to 22.
The Remuneration Committee as constituted 
also serves as the Nomination Committee for 
consideration of Executive and Non-executive 
Director appointments.
audit committee
The Audit Committee comprises all four Non-
executive Directors.  During the year Alastair 
Gordon assumed the Chairmanship of the 
Committee from Peter Morgan.  Directors and 
auditors attend the meetings by invitation 
to support the Committee in carrying out its 
responsibilities.  The Audit Committee met twice in 
the last financial year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing 
a wide range of financial matters including the half 
year and annual financial statements before their 
submission to the Board and monitoring controls, 
which are in force to ensure the integrity of the 
financial information reported to the shareholders.  
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of 
external auditors and their remuneration both for 
audit and non-audit work and discusses the nature 
and scope of the audit.
The Committee recognises that the independence 
of the Group's auditors is of paramount importance 
to shareholders and regularly reviews the level of 
non-audit work being performed by the auditors to 
ensure that they remain independent.  The Audit 
Committee consults the auditors in the absence 
of Executive Management in order to obtain 
independent advice.  Audit and non-audit fees 
paid or payable to the auditors in the year under 
review are set out in note 4.
The Group does not have any internal audit 
function.  In the opinion of the Committee and 
the Board the limited scale and complexity of the 
business does not warrant the establishment of a 
separate internal audit function. 25  Strategic Thought Group plc   Annual Report & Accounts 2009
internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's 
system of internal controls.  The Directors monitor 
the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls 
on an annual basis including operational, financial, 
compliance and risk management controls.  The 
key controls are designed to mitigate risk rather 
than eliminate it and are as follows:
   Comprehensive financial planning and 
reporting (including a three year plan) and a 
detailed annual budget, which is approved by 
the Board, monthly reporting of actual results 
against budget and reporting against key 
financial and performance objectives;
   Monthly performance reviews by the Chief 
Executive and the Management Committee;
   Established procedures and controls with the 
Group IT systems designed to protect the 
security of the Company data and provide 
disaster recovery arrangements (with annual 
reviews and updates);
   Controls for all acquisitions, investments and 
capital expenditure with clear authorisation 
levels;
   Maintenance of the Group's ISO 9001 
accreditation driving regular internal reviews 
and checks and mandatory annual audits in 
sales and marketing, project management, 
health and safety, office management, 
environmental and human resources;
   Procedures for the escalation of material 
risks from the Management Committee to the 
Board;
   Operation of a structured system of risk 
management throughout the business 
which now includes the formation of a Risk 
Management Committee which meets twice 
per annum and the results of which are 
discussed at the Management Committee 
meetings. 
The internal control systems continue to be 
reviewed and developed where necessary.
Relations with shareholders
The Company acknowledges the importance 
of maintaining good communications with its 
investors.  This is principally effected by the CEO 
and CFO through presentation and dialogue with 
shareholders, institutions, brokers and media 
particularly following the interim and preliminary 
results announcements.  Their views are 
communicated to the Board.
The principal communications with private 
investors are through the Company's website  
(www.strategicthought.com), the annual report and 
financial statements, the interim statement and 
AGM.  All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, 
which provides shareholders with the opportunity 
to question the Chairman and the Board.
By order of the Board:
penelope Rose 
company secretary 
28th may 2009