 Summit plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007/08 19 Corporate Governance Report
The Group is subject to the continuing requirements of AIM Rules and is committed to adhering to corporate governance standards appropriate for a group 
of Summit's size. As an AIM-quoted company, the Group is not required to comply with the disclosure requirements of the Combined Code. As such, this 
section provides general information on the Group's adoption of corporate governance but does not constitute full compliance with the Combined Code. 
The Board
At 31 January 2008, the Board comprised five non-executive directors, including the Chairman and three executive directors. This composition follows the 
resignation on 31 January 2008 of James Taylor, an Executive Director, David Norwood and Sir Brian Richards, both Non-executive Directors. With the 
exception of Andrew Richards who was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 22 March 2007 and George Elliott who was appointed as a Non-
executive Director on 23 April 2007, all directors served throughout the period under review. Directors' biographies are on page 16. 
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group and meets formally at least 10 times a year to set the overall 
direction and strategy of the Group, to review scientific, operational and financial performance and to advise on management appointments. All key 
operational and investment decisions are subject to Board approval. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed 
and applicable rules and regulations are complied with. 
There is a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman is responsible for overseeing the running of the Board, 
ensuring that no individual or group dominates the Board's decision-making and ensuring that the non-executive directors are properly briefed on matters. 
The Chief Executive Officer has the responsibility for implementing the strategy of the Board and managing the day-to-day business activities of the Group 
through his chairmanship of the Executive Committee.
 
Of the five current non-executive directors, four are considered to be independent (Barry Price, Colin Wall, Andrew Richards and George Elliott). The Board 
considers that all the non-executive directors are of sufficient competence and calibre to add strength and objectivity to the Board. The Senior Independent 
Director is Colin Wall.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by 
shareholders at least once every three years. 
The Company has directors' and officers' liability insurance in place. 
Performance evaluation
The Board has a process for evaluation of its own performance, that of its committee and individual directors, including the Chairman. These evaluations 
are carried out at least annually.
Board committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, each of which has formal terms of reference 
approved by the Board. In addition, the Board established a Risk Committee to develop, implement and monitor a risk management strategy.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
Audit Committee 
During the financial year the Audit Committee comprised Professor Stephen Davies (until 19 July 2007), David Norwood, Sir Brian Richards and George 
Elliott (from 19 July 2007). Until 19 July 2007 the Committee was chaired by Professor Stephen Davies, after this date George Elliott acted as Chairman. The 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation only. 
The role of the committee includes:
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group.
Reviewing accounting polices, accounting treatment and disclosures in the financial reports.
Reviewing the Group's internal financial controls and risk management systems.
Overseeing the Group's relationship with external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment 
of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors' independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee met three times in 2007/08.
Remuneration Committee
During the financial year the Remuneration Committee comprised Colin Wall (Chairman), David Norwood (until 19 July 2007), Professor Stephen Davies 
(until 19 July 2007), George Elliott (from 19 July 2007) and Andrew Richards (from 19 July 2007). Other directors are able to attend the meeting by 
invitation only.
The role of the Committee includes:
Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all directors.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director; and performance conditions 
which are to apply.
Determining bonuses payable under the Group's cash bonus scheme.
Determining the vesting of awards under the Group's long-term incentive plans and exercise of share options.
The Directors' Remuneration Report is presented on pages 21 to 25.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 January 2008 Summit plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007/08 20 Corporate Governance Report
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprised Sir Brian Richards, Colin Wall and is chaired by Barry Price. Other directors can attend the meeting by invitation 
only. On 31 January 2008, Sir Brian Richards resigned and his position on the Nominations Committee was taken by Professor Stephen Davies.
The Combined Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic 
and made against objective criteria. The Nominations Committee meets at least once per year and is responsible for reviewing the composition, balance 
and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the re-appointment and 
orderly succession of existing directors. 
The terms of reference for all committees are available on request from the Company Secretary. 
Attendance at Board meetings and committees
The directors attended the following Board meetings and committees during the year:
Attendance  Board  Remuneration  Nominations  Audit
Barry Price  10/10  -  2/2  -
Steven Lee  9/10  -  -  -
Richard Storer  10/10  -  -  -
Darren Millington  10/10  -  -  -
James Taylor  10/10  -  -  -
Stephen Davies  10/10  3/3  -  2/3
David Norwood  9/10  -  -  3/3
Brian Richards  7/10  3/3  2/2  3/3
Colin Wall   10/10  3/3  2/2  -
Andrew Richards - appointed 22 March 2007  7/7  -  -  -
George Elliott - appointed 23 April 2007  7/7  -  -  3/3
Risk management and internal control
The Risk Committee, established by the Board during the financial year, is responsible for the development of a risk management strategy within the Group. 
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
The Risk Committee is chaired by George Elliott and comprises of Andrew Richards, Richard Storer and senior staff representing human resources and finance. 
Summit has an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of reporting and responsibility. The structure is reviewed regularly to ensure appropriate 
levels of delegation and authority. All Group employees are required to adhere to specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures.
 
Although the Company does not have an internal audit function, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance 
controls during the year and is satisfied that these have been followed during the year.
Corporate social responsibility 
The Board recognises the growing awareness of social, environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to take into account the interest of the Group's 
stakeholders, including its investors, employees, suppliers and business partners, when operating the business.
Employment
The Board recognises its legal responsibility to ensure the well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and maintain a safe and healthy working 
environment for them and for its visitors. Health and safety is a regular agenda item for Board meetings. 
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of communication with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood and that it 
remains accountable to shareholders. Our website, www.summitplc.com, has a section dedicated to investor matters and provides useful information for 
the Company's owners.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, while the Chairman and Chief Executive ensure 
that the views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole. The Board ensures that the Group's strategic plans have been carefully 
reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value. Interim statements and fully audited annual reports will be sent to shareholders 
and posted on the Company's website.
Shareholders are welcome to attend the Group's Annual General Meeting (AGM), where they have the opportunity to meet the Board. All shareholders will 
have at least 21 days' notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors will be available to discuss aspects of the Group's performance and 
question management in more detail. The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate 
or has failed to resolve concerns.
 
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 January 2008