 Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for the direction
and overall performance of the Group
with emphasis on policy matters, strategy,
financial results and major operational
issues. The Board comprises five Executive
Directors at present and four Non-
Executive directors, two of whom are
independent based on the guidelines in
the Combined Code, one of whom is also
a director of the Company's major
shareholder and one of whom is an
employee of the Company's major
shareholder. The names of the Directors
together with their biographical details
are set out on pages 14-16. The Non-
Executive directors are appointed for a
term of two years.
The Board meets at least eight times per
year and a meeting timetable is agreed
annually. There is an agenda of matters
specifically reserved for Board attention.
This includes overall Group strategy,
planning for the succession of the
executive and the Board itself, approving
appointments of Board Directors and of
the Company Secretary, financing
arrangements, material licensing
transactions, acquisitions and disposals 
of companies, approval of the annual
budget, major capital expenditure, risk
management, treasury policies and the
operation of internal controls. At each
meeting the Board is briefed on issues
arising, reviews the progress of the Group
towards its objectives and monitors
financial performance against budget.
The Company Secretary is responsible for
advising the Board through the Chairman
on all governance matters. All directors
have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary and are
encouraged to regularly update and
refresh their skills and knowledge, for
example, through attending courses on
technical areas or briefings for non-
executive directors. Newly appointed
directors are provided with appropriate
induction training. The Board has
established a procedure for directors to
take, if necessary, independent
professional advice at the Group's
expense. Appropriate Directors and
Officers' liability insurance has been
arranged by the Company.
All Board members receive monthly
management accounts and regular
management reports enabling them to
review the Group's performance against
agreed objectives. Regular reports and
papers are circulated to directors in a
timely manner in preparation for Board
and Committee meetings. This
information includes items specifically
requested by the non-executive directors
from time to time.
The terms and conditions of appointment
of non-executive directors are available
for inspection by request at the
Company's registered office during normal
business hours and at the AGM.
The non-executive Chairman is recognised
as the senior independent non-executive
director to whom concerns by staff of any
suspected improprieties can be conveyed
in private and investigated as required by
the Code of Best Practice. 
Board committees
The Board has established Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations
Committees each comprising the four
non-executive directors: Nigel Randall
(Chairman), Kazuhiko Sato, Eizo Yasui and
Mike Love. Executive Directors attend
committee meetings by invitation.
The Audit Committee meets at least three
times per year and is attended by the
external auditors. The Committee is
responsible for review of the annual
report and for ensuring any matters
raised by the external auditors are given
proper consideration. The Committee is
also responsible for reviewing the scope
and results of the external audit and its
cost-effectiveness, together with the
independence and objectivity of the
external auditors.  The Committee also
provides the forum through which the
Group's external auditors report to the
Board and is responsible for the
authorisation of any material non-audit
work proposed to be undertaken by the
Group's auditors. Such authorisation will
only be given if the Audit Committee is
satisfied that there will be no negative
effect on the independence or objectivity
of the auditors and will be subject to a
competitive tendering process except
where it is mandatory for the particular
work in question to be undertaken by the
Group's auditors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Although not required to do so by the AIM Rules, the Directors have
decided to provide voluntary corporate governance disclosures,
comparable with those required of a full listed company.
20 20 20
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the
Board intends, so far as is practical, that it will comply with the July 2004 FRC Combined
Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance. 21
The Remuneration Committee meets at
least twice annually and is responsible for
recommending to the Board the
remuneration packages for executive
directors and the bonus and share option
strategy for the Group. 
The Nominations Committee meets at
least twice annually and is responsible for
recommending to the Board all Board
appointments and for ensuring the Board
has an appropriate balance of expertise
and ability among the Directors.
Shareholder relations
The Group encourages communication
with both its institutional and private
shareholders and responds quickly to all
enquiries received. The Group also
undertakes a formal programme of
institutional presentations on the
announcement of its full year and interim
results. In addition, shareholders receive at
least 21 days notice of the Annual General
Meeting at which all Directors are
normally present and available to answer
questions. The Board seeks to ensure that
its Annual Report and other public
financial statements provide a clear
assessment of the Group s position. 
Internal control
The Board acknowledges that it is
responsible for the Group s system of
internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. A process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant
risks faced by the Group is embedded into
the operations of the Group. That process
is regularly reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Internal Control guidance
for Directors on the Combined Code
produced by the Turnbull working party.
The system has been in place throughout
the year under review and up to the date
of approval of the financial statements.
The Board keeps its risk control procedures
under constant review, particularly as
regards the embedded internal control and
risk management procedures, both in the
UK and overseas, and dealing with areas
of improvement which come to
management s and the Board s attention.
Information on the Group's significant
risks, together with the relevant control
and monitoring procedures, are reviewed
for completeness and accuracy by the
Group's management team. The information
is presented to the Board for Directors to
assess the effectiveness of the system of
internal control. In addition, the committees
of the Board monitor the Group's
significant risks on an ongoing basis. 
As might be expected in a group of this
size, a key control procedure is the day-
to-day supervision of the business by the
executive directors supported by
managers responsible for operations and
the key support functions of Finance,
Information Systems, Human Resources
including Health and Safety, and Business
Development. The Executive Directors are
involved in the budget setting process.
They monitor key statistics and review
management accounts on a monthly
basis, noting and investigating major
variances. The Board as a whole approves
all significant capital expenditure
decisions. The Group's accounting
function facilitates a tight financial
control environment including regular
bank and control account reconciliation
as part of a strict monthly Group
consolidated management accounts
preparation process. 
The Audit Committee has formally
considered whether an internal audit
function is needed and has concluded
that, given the current size and level of
complexity of the Group and the
involvement of Group finance staff in
regular review of the subsidiary
companies, a formal internal audit
function is not required at this stage in
the Group's development.
The Group's system of internal control is
designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against misstatement or loss.
Corporate governance compliance
The Board reports on compliance with the
Principles set out in the July 2004 FRC
Combined Code. Throughout the
accounting period ended 31 December
2005 and to the date of signing this
Report the Group has been in compliance
with the Code provisions set out in
Section 1 of the July 2004 FRC Combined
Code on Corporate Governance except for
the following matters:
  Code Provision A.5.1 The Group does
not have a formal training programme
for Directors although the executive
Directors have access to professional
coaching services and have
participated in management
development training.
  Code Provision A.6.1 The Board does
not undertake a formal and rigorous
annual evaluation of its own
performance and that of its
committees and individual directors.
  Code Provision A.7.2 The Board does
not set out to shareholders why it
believes a non-executive director
should be elected.
  Code Provision A.1.2 No table of
attendance at the Board, Nomination
and Remuneration committee meetings
is presented.
The Directors believe that the above
departures from the Combined Code on
corporate governance are reasonable 
given the current size and composition 
of the Group.