 22 Annual Report 2003
Board Structure
The Company's Board is made up of a balance of executive and non-executive directors. It currently comprises
a part-time executive Chairman, two other executive directors and three non-executive directors, who have the
responsibility for ensuring that the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries are managed competently and
with integrity. The Chairman is Mr P J Andrews, the Chief Executive is Mr T J Murch and the senior non-
executive director is Mr R Templeton.
The non-executive directors provide a diversity of business perspective and objectivity that complements the
expertise of the executive directors. All the non-executive directors, with the exception of Dr D L Speirs, are
regarded as independent of management and free from business or other relationships that could interfere with
the exercise of their independent judgement. Dr D L Speirs is not regarded as independent as he undertook a
temporary executive role as Chief Executive, following the retirement of Mr M Clewes on 19th July 2001 until the
appointment of Mr T J Murch on 24th June 2002. All the non-executive directors play a full part as members of
the Board and share responsibility for Board decisions.
The composition of the Board is kept under review with the aim of ensuring that the Board collectively
possesses the necessary skill and experience for the proper direction of the Group's business activities. New
directors are appointed at general meeting or submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first
opportunity and at three-yearly intervals thereafter.
The Board meets at least eight times a year and directors are supplied with all relevant information to assist them
in the discharge of their duties. The Board focuses on considering longer-term strategic issues as well as
reviewing and monitoring the management and financial performance of the Company.
The Board has established three committees with specified terms of reference, which assist the full Board in the
exercise of its responsibilities. These are: 
Nomination Committee This Committee recommends new appointments to the Board and reviews re-
appointments when they become due. It has formal terms of reference and its current membership comprises
Mr J C Barnsley, Mr P J Andrews, Dr D L Speirs and Mr R Templeton.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration and contractual
arrangements of individual executive directors of Syltone plc and their direct reports. The aim of the Committee
is to ensure that executive directors receive a competitive remuneration package that both attracts and retains
management of a high quality and provides motivation for those executives to perform in the best interests of
the Company, its shareholders, employees and customers.
The members of the Committee are Mr R Templeton (Chairman), Dr D L Speirs and Mr J C Barnsley.
The Board's Report on Remuneration appears on pages 18 to 21.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Mr J C Barnsley (Chairman), Dr D L Speirs and Mr R
T empleton. Its duties cover the areas of internal control, liaison with external auditors and formulating and
implementing policy on granting of non-audit services. Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the
external auditors. The Finance Director and Chief Executive also attend when requested to do so.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal control and the
monitoring of compliance with regulatory requirements. The Committee approves the internal audit plan, which
is based on risk assessment, and reviews all internal audit reports.
On behalf of the Board the Committee reviews the annual report and accounts and the interim report. In
undertaking this work the Committee considers the accounting policies of the Group, major areas of judgement
and estimates and compliance with accounting principles and regulatory requirements.
Relations with shareholders
The Company seeks to maintain good communications with shareholders and welcomes communication with its
institutional shareholders through meetings and results briefings. The Company also appreciates that the Annual
General Meeting and the Annual Report sent to the shareholders before the meeting provide an opportunity to
communicate with private investors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee and of the Remuneration Committee
will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions from the shareholders.
Information about the Company is available on the Company's website and all announcements made to the
London Stock Exchange are now posted to it. The website address is www.syltone.co.uk.
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control; Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on
the Combined Code (the Turnbull guidance), the Board confirm that there is a continuing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that has been in place for the
year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and that this process is
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. In particular, it has reviewed and
updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies
and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Statement on corporate governance 23 Annual Report 2003
The key elements of the Group's system of internal controls are as follows:
Control Environment The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to
maintain these standards across all of its operations throughout the world. The Group has adopted a written
code of business ethics and practices including supporting group policies and procedures which provides
practical guidance for all staff. 
The Board is supported by two divisional Executive Committees which consist of full-time senior managers of
Syltone who each have a functional responsibility.The Executive Committees operate a system of review of
divisional, regional and individual subsidiaries' performance against budget and report appropriately to the
Board.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring
business operations in order to achieve Group objectives. 
Risk Identification A Risk Committee exists with the remit to ensure that key risks applicable to the business
are identified by Group management and that such risks are properly evaluated. The Board considers significant
risk areas, including those arising from the development of new activities or changes in external risk factors.
The key risks affecting the business have been identified. The Risk Committee is responsible for the regular
reassessment of these risks and reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The risks considered are associated with both internal and external sources including control breakdown,
disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Information and communication Group divisions and regions prepare five-year strategic plans which are
revised annually and include consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation of strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities and threats in relation to the business. Annual budgets are also prepared and
performance against plans and budgets is actively monitored. Results against budgets are consolidated and
presented to the Board at routine board meetings. The Board reports to shareholders half yearly (the interim
results) and announces other major events as they occur.
Through these mechanisms, Group performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner,
their financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and
implemented.
Control procedures The Group and its operating units have implemented control procedures designed to
ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of
assets or fraud. Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties, and reviews by management.
There is a programme of internal audits carried out by the Group internal audit personnel with the objective of
auditing each trading subsidiary at least once every eighteen months. In addition reviews are carried out by
external auditors covering financial matters, ISO 9000 certification, health and safety and various insured risks to
the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
Monitoring and corrective action There are clear and consistent procedures in place for monitoring the
system of internal controls. The Audit Committee, which meets at least twice a year, receives reports from the
internal audit function, the risk committee and management. Within its remit the Audit Committee reviews the
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. Any corrective action which may be necessary is agreed
and implemented.
Compliance statement
The Board of Directors has complied throughout the year with the Combined Code provisions apart from the
matters noted below.
a) S22 of the Combined Code requires the Remuneration Committee to consist exclusively of independent
non-executive directors. Following the retirement of Mr M Clewes as Director and Chief Executive of the
Company on 19th July 2001, he was replaced on a temporary basis as Chief Executive by Dr D L Speirs.
Despite his executive role Dr D L Speirs continued as a member of the Audit Committee. Dr D L Speirs also
continued to be a member of the Remuneration Committee, but played no role in deciding his own
remuneration for the period in which he was Chief Executive. Mr T J Murch was appointed as the new Chief
Executive on 24th June 2002 following which, Dr D L Speirs reverted to being a non-executive director.
b) The Board has reviewed its policy of not providing fixed term contracts for non-executive directors and
considers that this is still appropriate for the Company under its present circumstances. The appointment of
non-executive directors is supervised by the Nomination Committee.
c) All directors have independent access to the Company's professional advisers at the Company's expense,
but this is not the subject of a written practice statement.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of that
control, and has done so for the year ended 31st March 2003.
Going concern
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business
for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
accounts.
Statement on corporate governance