 Autoclenz Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2008 18
 Autoclenz           Autoquality
16318      20/04/2009    PROOF 7
The Combined Code
The Directors are committed to high standards of Corporate Governance. The Board is accountable to its Shareholders for 
good Corporate Governance and adopts the necessary structures and procedures. Although Autoclenz Holdings Plc is listed 
on the Alternative Investment Market and therefore does not need to comply with the Combined Code, the Board has reviewed 
the Corporate Governance of the Group and has taken steps to comply with the Combined Code as far as is practicable and 
appropriate for a Public Company of its size and nature.
Board
The Board comprises of a Non-Executive Chairman, a Non-Executive Director and two Executive Directors. The Executive Directors 
have a clear division of duties and meet to direct and control strategy and the performance of the Group. The Executive Directors 
together with the Senior Management of Autoclenz meet formally as a Management Team on a monthly basis. These Executive 
Meetings consider, approve and monitor performance against budget, review operational performance, receive reports from key 
Managers for their respective areas of responsibility, discuss significant issues and determine any appropriate action to be taken.
The Group also has a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board, specifically Audit and Remuneration.
Attendance at meetings during the year to 31 December was as follows:
      Actual Maximum Possible
      Attendances Attendances
John Bell - Non-Executive Chairman      14 14
Michael Stone - Non-Executive Director      13 14
Grahame Rummery - Chief Executive      13 13
Trevor Clingo - Finance Director      13 13
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Chairman is 
responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Board and to ensure that each Director is able to make effective 
contribution to the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Company, implementing policies and 
strategies determined by the Board.
Board Balance and Independence
The Group Board considers that the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Director are independent of the Executive 
Directors and are free from any business or other relationship that might materially interfere with their exercise of independent 
judgement. The Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Director bring experience at a senior level of business operations, 
finance and strategy.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at Stanhope Road, Swadlincote, DE11 9BE.
Corporate Governance Report
16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   18 16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   18 20/04/2009   11:20 20/04/2009   11:20 www.autoclenz.co.uk 19
Highlights Our Business Chairman's Statement Financial Review
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2007
16318     20/04/2009    PROOF 7
Financials Governance
Appointment to the Board
There were no appointments to the Board during the year ended 31 December 2008. However John Bell resigned as 
Non-Executive Chairman on 28 January 2009 and James Leek was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 28 January 2009.
Prior to the appointment of Mr Leek as Non-Executive Chairman representation was made to major Shareholders and Professional 
Advisors by Michael Stone Non-Executive Director to ascertain the suitability for this role.
There is no Nominations Committee and therefore the Group does not comply with the Combined Code in this respect. The Group 
does not feel, given their size, there is a need for a Nominations Committee currently but will review the situation periodically.
Information and Professional Development
All Directors are given regular information and briefing on all relevant information relating to the Group.
Directors have access to the Company Secretary at all times, the Company Secretary ensures good information flows are 
maintained to ensure the Directors have sufficient information to carry out their Company duties efficiently.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and 
regulations are complied with.
Performance Evaluation
Performance evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Management of the 
Company is done in-house.
Re-Election
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting all the Directors will seek re-election. The Board strongly supports their re-election as 
the Board considers that they remain independent and they continue to fulfil their respective roles to the highest standard providing 
appropriate leadership and direction to the Company.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial Reporting
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position through the Chairman's Statement, 
Finance Directors Report, Remunerations Report and Directors Report.
16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   19 16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   19 20/04/2009   11:20 20/04/2009   11:20 Autoclenz Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2008 20
 Autoclenz           Autoquality
16318      20/04/2009    PROOF 7
Corporate Governance Report continued
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control, which is designed to meet the 
particular needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed. Such a system is designed to manage these risks to provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and to maintain proper accounting records to ensure 
the integrity of financial information used within the business and for external publications.
As well as the key areas of control listed below, the Board has reviewed the Group's arrangements for its employees to raise 
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing, this is formalised in a whistleblowing  policy circulated to all employees.
The Group key systems of control include:
Strategic
The Group Board meet annually for a strategic review, the purpose of which is to review the Group's position against its strategic 
targets and to formulate and update a strategic framework to achieve the Group's financial targets for the following three years.
Operational
The Board meet monthly to manage the affairs of the Group. The Group's financial and operational performance is closely monitored 
at each Board Meeting with formal Board Reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Senior Management of the Group.
The Group prepares an annual budget, developed through a comprehensive operational budget process prior to the 
commencement of the financial year. The budget is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Board and Senior Managers monitor the actual financial performance of each operational Division against the budget, with any 
significant variances highlighted and explained.
Investment Appraisal
An annual budget is set for capital expenditure. Actual expenditure is authorised by the Board and monitored against the annual 
budget.
Disaster Recovery
The Group has established procedures over the security of data held on IT Systems and has put in place disaster recovery 
arrangements.
Identification of Risk
The Board is responsible for identifying the main business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate actions 
necessary to manage those risks. Details included in the Finance Directors Report.
16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   20 16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   20 20/04/2009   11:20 20/04/2009   11:20 www.autoclenz.co.uk 21
Highlights Our Business Chairman's Statement Financial Review
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2007
16318     20/04/2009    PROOF 7
Financials Governance
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee comprised of Mr Bell and Mr Stone until the resignation of Mr Bell on 28 January 2009, at that point Mr Leek 
replaced Mr Bell on the Committee. Mr Stone is the Chairman of the Committee, both Mr Stone and Mr Leek are fellows of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The Committee met twice during 2008. The Committee reviews the Group 
Annual Report, Financial Statements, Interim Statements and Preliminary Announcements before recommending their approval to 
the Board. The Group's external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the need to appoint an internal audit function and does not feel the Group justifies a dedicated internal 
audit function due to its present size and nature. The Audit Committee also considers the appointment and the audit and non audit 
fees of the external auditors together with their independence and objectivity.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognise the importance of continual communications with Shareholders and will maintain a programme of regular 
dialogue with its investors, including meetings with Shareholders following the Company's announcements of its preliminary full 
year's figures and of the half year results. The Executive Directors showcased the Company at the Growth Company Investor Show 
held at the Barbican in June 2008 for the second year running. Invitations were sent to all Shareholders to attend.
The Group Investor Relations website contains information on current activities including all the Public Reports prepared by the 
Company to date. The Company website is www.autoclenz.co.uk
Annual General Meeting
The Board encourages individual Shareholders to attend the Company's Annual General Meeting, where there is an opportunity 
for them to raise general business matters with the full Board. The notice of the Company's Annual General Meeting is circulated 
to all Shareholders at least 20 working days before such a meeting. All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are 
available to answer Shareholders questions at the meeting. There is also an opportunity following the formal business for informed 
communications between Investors and Directors.
16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   21 16318AUTOCLENZ.indd   21 20/04/2009   11:20 20/04/2009   11:20