 15  | Synairgen plc annual report and accounts 2013  |  www.synairgen.com  |  LSE:SNG
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for 
good corporate governance and it is the objective of the Board to 
attain a high standard of corporate governance. As an AIM-quoted 
company, full compliance with The UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the  Code') is not a formal obligation. The Company has not 
sought to comply with the full provisions of the Code, however it 
has sought to adopt the provisions that are appropriate to its size 
and organisation and establish frameworks for the achievement of 
this objective. This statement sets out the corporate governance 
procedures that are in place.
Board of Directors
On 31 December 2013 the Board of directors (the  Board') 
consisted of a non-executive Chairman (Simon Shaw), three 
executive directors (Richard Marsden, Dr Phillip Monk and John 
Ward), and four non-executive directors (Iain Buchanan, Dr 
Bruce Campbell, Paul Clegg and Prof. Stephen Holgate). Brief 
details about the directors are given on pages 11 and 12. The 
responsibilities of the non-executive Chairman and the Chief 
Executive Officer are clearly divided. The non-executive directors 
bring relevant experience from different backgrounds and receive 
a fixed fee for their services and reimbursement of reasonable 
expenses incurred in attending meetings. 
The Board retains full and effective control of the Group. This 
includes responsibility for determining the Group's strategy and 
for approving budgets and business plans to fulfil this strategy. 
The full Board ordinarily meets bi-monthly. It also meets on any 
other occasions it considers necessary. During the year ended 
31 December 2013, the Board met nine times, with each member 
attending as follows:
 
Director
Number of meetings held 
whilst a Board member
Number of  
meetings attended
Simon Shaw 9 9
Richard Marsden 9 9
Dr Phillip Monk 9 8
John Ward 9 9
Iain Buchanan 9 8
Dr Bruce Campbell 9 7
Paul Clegg 9 9
Prof. Stephen Holgate 9 2
It is the duty of the Chairman to ensure that all directors are properly 
briefed on issues arising at Board meetings. Prior to each Board 
meeting, directors are sent an agenda and Board papers for each 
agenda item to be discussed. Additional information is provided 
when requested by the Board or individual directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and that the applicable rules 
and regulations are complied with. All directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary, and independent 
professional advice, if required, at the Company's expense. Removal 
of the Company Secretary would be a matter for the Board.
As appropriate, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities  
to Board committees.
Corporate Governance
Directors' interests in ordinary shares
The directors, who held office at 31 December 2013, had the 
following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
1 January and 31 December 2013
Number of shares
Richard Marsden 110,972
Dr Phillip Monk 28,592
John Ward 243,912
Simon Shaw (i) 1,408,879
Iain Buchanan 112,741
Dr Bruce Campbell 294,259
Paul Clegg (ii) 204,244
Prof. Stephen Holgate (iii) 858,360
(i) Simon Shaw's shareholding includes 40,299 shares held in his pension plan.
(ii) Paul Clegg's shareholding includes 180,149 shares held in his pension plan.
(iii) Prof. Stephen Holgate's shareholding includes 1,923 shares owned by his wife, 
Elizabeth Holgate.
Between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report there 
has been no change in the interests of directors in shares or 
share options as disclosed in this report.
Directors' and officers' liability insurance
Qualifying indemnity insurance cover has been arranged in 
respect of the personal liabilities which may be incurred by 
directors and officers of the Group during the course of their 
service with the Group. This insurance has been in place during 
the year and on the date of this report.
Post balance sheet events
On 10 March 2014, the Company raised  1,500,000 (gross) 
for working capital purposes by issuing 3,125,000 1p ordinary 
shares at a price of 48p per share.
Political donations
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group made no 
political donations (2012:  nil).
Auditors
All of the current directors have taken all the steps that 
they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any 
information needed by the Company's auditors for the purposes 
of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that 
information. The directors are not aware of any relevant audit 
information of which the auditors are unaware.
By order of the Board   
John Ward      
Company Secretary
19 March 2014 
Directors' Report 
(continued) LSE:SNG  |  www.synairgen.com  |  Synairgen plc annual report and accounts 2013 |  16
Investor relations
The directors seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives 
between the Company and its shareholders by meetings with major 
institutional investors and analysts after the Company's preliminary 
announcement of its year-end results and its interim results. The 
Company also maintains investor relations pages on its website 
(www.synairgen.com) to increase the amount of information 
available to investors. 
There is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for individual 
shareholders to question the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Remuneration and Nomination committees, and the executive 
directors. Notice of the meeting is sent to shareholders at least 
21 clear days before the meeting. Shareholders are given the 
opportunity to vote on each separate issue. The Company counts 
all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each 
resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands. Details of 
the resolutions and explanations thereto are included with  
the notice. 
Internal control
The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the 
Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The main features of the internal control system are as follows:
  a control environment exists through the close management of  
 the business by the executive directors. The Group has a defined  
 organisational structure with delineated approval limits. Controls  
 are implemented and monitored by personnel with the necessary  
 qualifications and experience;
  a list of matters reserved for board approval;
  monthly management reporting and analysis of variances;
  financial risks for each major transaction are identified and  
 evaluated by the Board; and
  standard financial controls operate to ensure that the assets of  
 the Group are safeguarded and that proper accounting records  
 are maintained.
By order of the Board   
John Ward       
Company Secretary
19 March 2014 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises Simon Shaw (Chairman), 
Iain Buchanan and Dr Bruce Campbell. Whilst it is not normal 
in larger companies for the chairman of the Company to chair 
the Audit Committee, the Company considers it appropriate for 
Simon Shaw to be Chairman as he is considered to have the most 
significant, recent and relevant financial experience of the non-
executive directors. 
The committee has primary responsibility for ensuring that the 
financial performance of the Group is properly measured and 
reported on and it reviews the interim financial information and 
annual financial statements before they are submitted to the 
Board. The committee reviews accounting policies and material 
accounting judgements. The committee also reviews, and reports 
on, reports from the Group's auditors relating to the Group's 
accounting controls. It makes recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment of auditors and the audit fee. The committee 
monitors the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of the audit. 
It has unrestricted access to the Group's auditors. In certain 
circumstances it is permitted by the Board for the auditors to supply 
non-audit services (in the provision of tax advice, or on specific 
projects where they can add value).
The committee has approved and monitored the application of this 
policy in order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence. 
The overall fees paid to the auditors are not deemed to be of such 
significance to them as to impair their independence. The Group 
does not have an internal audit function, but the Board considers  
that this is appropriate, given the size of the Group. The committee 
keeps this matter under review annually. During the year ended  
31 December 2013, the committee met four times with each 
member attending as follows:
 
Director
Number of meetings held 
whilst a Committee member
Number of  
meetings attended
Simon Shaw 4 4
Iain Buchanan 1 1
Dr Bruce Campbell 4 3
Remuneration and Nomination Committee
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee currently comprises 
Paul Clegg (Chairman), Dr Bruce Campbell and Simon Shaw. The 
committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board 
on remuneration policy for executive directors and the terms of their 
service contracts, with the aim of ensuring that their remuneration, 
including any share options and other awards, is based on their 
own performance and that of the Group generally. The committee 
administers the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the staff share option 
scheme and the Qualifying Non-Employee Option Scheme and 
approves grants under all three schemes. It also advises on the 
remuneration policy for the Group's employees. The committee is 
responsible for all senior appointments that are made within the 
Group. During the year ended 31 December 2013, the committee 
met four times and all meetings were attended by Paul Clegg,  
Dr Bruce Campbell and Simon Shaw.
Corporate Governance