 Autoclenz Annual Report 2010
clearly a better class of service
20
20259.04 14/04/2011 Proof 5
Corporate Governance Report
The Combined Code
As an AIM quoted company, Autoclenz Holdings Plc does not have to comply with the Combined Code of Corporate 
Governance (the  Combined Code' 2008) published by the Financial Reporting Council. However the Board embraces the 
principles of good corporate governance.
Application of the Principles of the Combined Code
The following statements describe how the relevant principles and provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code (2008) 
were applied to the Company and Group during the financial year and will continue to be relevant for the forthcoming year.
Board of Directors
The Group is managed by a Board consisting of a Non-Executive Chairman, a Non-Executive Director and two Executive 
Directors. The Board is responsible for the formulation of corporate strategy, including acquisitions, treasury policy, 
audit and remuneration. The Executive Directors together with the Senior Management of Autoclenz meet formally as a 
Management Team each month. These Executive Meetings monitor, consider and approve both operational and financial 
performance against budget for each division. The key Manager for each division will prepare and discuss reports for their 
areas of responsibility, raising any issues for discussion and to determine appropriate action to be taken.
Attendance at meetings during the year to 31 December was as follows:
       Maximum 
      Actual Possible 
      Attendances Attendances
James Leek - Non Executive Chairman     15 15
Michael Stone - Non Executive Director     15 15
Grahame Rummery - Chief Executive     14 14
Trevor Clingo - Finance Director     14 14
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Chairman is 
responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Board and to ensure that each Director is able to make effective 
contribution to the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Company, implementing policies 
and strategies determined by the Board.
Board Balance and Independence
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Director are independent of the Management 
and are free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with their exercise of independent 
judgement. The Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Director bring experience at a senior level of business 
operations, finance and strategy. The Non-Executive Chairman also has extensive experience in the management and 
growth of small companies.
The number of Directors and the balance between Executives and Non-Executives provides for effective operation and is 
considered appropriate to the Company's size and scope of activities.
Appointment to the Board
There have been no appointments to the Board during the year ended 31 December 2010.
There is no Nominations Committee and therefore the Group does not comply with the Combined Code in this respect. The 
Group does not feel, given their size, there is a need for a Nominations Committee currently but will review the situation 
periodically.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at Stanhope Road, 
Swadlincote, DE11 9BE. 21
Autoclenz   clearly a better class of service
www.autoclenz.co.uk
Our Business
Our Performance
Our Governance Our Financials
20259.04 14/04/2011 Proof 5
Our Business
Our Performance
Our Governance Our Financials
Development and Performance Evaluation
All Directors are given a monthly information pack covering Financial, Operational and Corporate Governance issues. 
The Directors have access to the Company Secretary at all times. The Company Secretary ensures Board procedures are 
followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Performance evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the senior management of the 
Company is done in-house.
This approach is periodically reviewed to confirm whether further external evaluation is necessary.
Re-election
All Directors were reappointed at the Annual General Meeting in May 2009. The articles require Directors to retire and seek 
re-election at the third Annual General Meeting after the General Meeting that he was last appointed or reappointed.
Although no Directors are required to seek re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, two Directors will seek  
re-election a year early to avoid having all four Directors seeking re-election at the same time.
Accountability and Audit
Financial Reporting
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects through the 
Chairman's Statement, Finance Review, Corporate Governance Report, Remunerations Report and Directors Report.
Internal Control
The Directors are responsible for the Company's system of internal control which aims to safeguard the Groups assets, 
ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements 
and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations including the assessment and management of risk. A system of 
internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide 
only reasonable and not absolute assurance particularly against misstatement or loss.
Autoclenz has a well established and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control to identify, evaluate 
and manage risks faced by the Group. The Group Board meet annually for a strategic review, the purpose of which is to 
review the Group's position against its strategic targets and to formulate and update a strategic framework to achieve the 
Groups financial targets for the following three years. The Directors and the Executive Management of the Company are 
accountable for their conduct and performance within the agreed strategies. A Management Structure exists with clearly 
defined lines of responsibility and the appropriate levels of delegation.
The Group and its operations are subject to a detailed annual budget process. Actual performance during the year is 
monitored monthly against budget, forecast and the previous year. Full year forecasts are updated at regular intervals 
during the year based on the latest historical data and trends. These forecasts and results are presented to the appropriate 
monthly Board Meeting. The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Senior Management prepare Board Reports to monitor 
performance and actions to achieve objectives. An annual budget is also set for capital expenditure. Actual expenditure is 
authorised by the Board and monitored against the annual budget.
The Group has well established procedures over the security of data held on IT Systems which includes automatic and 
regular back ups together with back up servers and discs held off site in secure surroundings.
The Board is responsible for identifying the main business risks faced by the Group. An annual assessment is conducted 
and agreed by the Board that highlights the risks both internally and externally, enabling actions to be devised and 
monitored to reduce the risk of failure to meet business objectives. The principal risks are included in the Financial Report. Autoclenz Annual Report 2010
clearly a better class of service
22
20259.04 14/04/2011 Proof 5
Corporate Governance Report continued
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee comprises of Mr Stone and Mr Leek. Mr Stone is the Chairman of the Committee, both Mr Stone and 
Mr Leek are fellows of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The Audit Committee has reviewed the 
need for an internal audit function and does not feel the Group justifies a dedicated internal audit function due to its present 
size and nature. The Audit Committee met twice during 2010.
The external Auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Group's Annual Report and Accounts. They independently 
and objectively review managements reporting of the operational results and financial position. They also review and test 
the design and implementation of key internal controls and the data contained in the Annual Report and Accounts to the 
extent necessary for expressing audit opinion. The Audit Committee considers the appointment and the audit and non-audit 
fees of the external auditors together with their independence and objectivity.
As well as the key areas of control summarised in the paragraphs above, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Group's 
arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing, this is formalised in a  whistle 
blowing' policy circulated to all employees.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises of Mr Leek and Mr Stone and is chaired by Mr Stone. The Remuneration 
Committee is responsible for determining the level of remuneration to be paid to the Executive Directors, one meeting was 
held during 2010. A separate report on remuneration is contained on pages 23 and 24.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company values the views of its Shareholders and recognises their intent in the Groups strategy and performance. The 
Company promotes dialogue with Shareholders through regular meetings following the announcement of interim and final 
results. Usually three Board Members have attended these meetings. The views of Shareholders are reported back to the 
full Board. There is also a Group Investor Relations Website containing information on current activities including all the 
public reports prepared by the Company to date.
The Company website is www.autoclenz.co.uk
At the AGM there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communications between Shareholders and 
Directors. All Directors attend the AGM. The notice of the Company's AGM is circulated to Shareholders at least 21 clear 
days before the meeting.