 P AGE 29
Synstar plc is committed to high
standards of corporate governance. The
Board is accountable to the shareholders
for good corporate governance, and this
statement sets out how the principles of
governance are applied to the Company.
Statement of compliance with the Code
of Best Practice
Throughout the year the Company has
been in compliance with the provisions
set out in the Combined Code appended
to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority.
Statement about applying the principles
of Good Governance
The Company has applied the principles of
Good Governance as set out in section 1
of the Combined Code by complying with
the Code of Best Practice as reported
above. A more comprehensive explanation
of how the principles have been applied
is set out below. With reference to
directors' remuneration, further details
can be found in the remuneration report.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
Board of Directors
The Company is managed by the Board
of Directors, which comprises three
executive directors and four non-
executive directors. R J Piper is the senior
non-executive director for the requirements
of provision A.2.1 of the Combined Code.
All directors are equally accountable
under the law for the proper stewardship
of the Company's affairs and the Board of
Directors take all of the actions they
deem necessary to meet the Company's
objectives. This includes reviewing long-
term plans, business performance and
other corporate matters. The Board of
Directors approves the Group's annual
budget, and any significant variations
from that budget are discussed and
appropriate action taken. The non-
executive directors have a particular
responsibility to ensure that strategies
proposed by the executive directors are
discussed and examined fully, not only
against the long-term interests of
shareholders, but also to ensure that they
take proper account of the interests of
employees, customers and suppliers.
There is an agreed procedure for directors
to obtain independent professional advice.
The Board meets each month to review
results to date, and to expedite the Group's
business. It has a formal schedule of
matters for its regular consideration, and
it delegates certain other responsibilities
to the following committees:
Group Operations Board
The Operations Board is responsible for the
management of the business. It is chaired
by the chief executive, and comprises the
other executive directors, the strategy
director, strategic accounts director,
human resources director, the managing
director of mainland Europe, and the
heads of the five  Centres of Excellence'. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for
the following matters:
 
Making recommendations to the Board
on the appointment and remuneration 
of the external auditors. 
 
Reviewing the conduct and control of 
the annual audit and overseeing the 
operation of proper internal controls.
 
Receiving and reviewing regular reports
from the risk management department.
 
Reviewing the measurement and 
reporting of the financial performance of
the Group. 
 
Reviewing the financial statements 
before recommendation to the Board. 
The Audit Committee is chaired by 
R J Piper, and comprises the four non-
executive directors. It meets four times
per year. There is a provision for non-
executive directors to meet with the
auditors without the executives present.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises
the chairman, the chief executive and the
non-executive directors. It is responsible
for the nomination for Board approval of
candidates for Board appointment.
Remuneration Committee
See pages 27-28.
Internal Control
The Combined Code requires that
directors review the effectiveness of the
Group's system of internal controls. This
requirement extends the directors' review
to cover all controls including operational,
compliance and risk management, as well
as financial. 
The directors confirm their responsibility
for review of the system of internal
control, and that they have reviewed its
effectiveness during the year.
The system of internal control is designed
to provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance.
The Board has modified existing risk
management and internal control
processes necessary to comply fully with
the Turnbull guidance.
The processes to identify and manage the
key risks to the success of the group are
an integral part of the internal control
environment. These processes, which are
reviewed and improved as necessary,
include strategic planning, the appointment
of senior managers, the regular
monitoring of performance, control over
capital expenditure and investments,
reviews of top customers and major
prospects, and the provision of accurate
and timely management information. 
The risk management process has been
embedded in the Group's operational
framework, and generates a series of 
 risk registers', which are reviewed by
management on a regular basis.
This ongoing process for evaluating
significant risks was in place throughout the
year, and to the date of the annual report.
The key features of the Group's internal
control systems are as follows:
 
Group culture and corporate social 
responsibility.
The Board emphasises a culture of
integrity, competence, fairness and
responsibility. Synstar plc is particularly
proud to be listed on the 
FTSE4Good Index, in respect of 
 ethical investments'. This has been
achieved through a policy of corporate
Corporate Governance P AGE 30
Corporate Governance
Continued
social responsibility across the UK and
overseas, taking into account such
considerations as fairness and
responsibility towards the welfare and
safety of:
 
our employees;
 
our suppliers and their employees; and,
 
the communities and environments in 
which we conduct our business. 
Group Organisation
The Board itself focuses mainly on
strategic issues, whereas the Group
Operating Board concentrates on the
formulation of strategic proposals to the
Board, and operational decision-making. 
Delegation of Authority
The Board approves the terms of any
authorisations given to directors and
senior managers of the Company which
cover new business, purchase order and
invoice values, conditions of employment,
staff recruitment, banking transactions,
company secretarial issues, and
development of the business as a whole.
Financial Reporting
There is a comprehensive financial
planning system, including an annual
budget approved by the Board. The
business is broken down into component
parts and the results of these are
reported monthly and compared to the
budget. Forecast updates are prepared
monthly, with full rolling 12-month
forecasts prepared every quarter. 
The Company reports to shareholders on
a half-yearly basis.
Going Concern
The Directors have reviewed the Group's
budgets, forecasts and plans, and have a
reasonable expectation that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. As a consequence,
the Company continues to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements. 
Controls over Contract Bids
In order to meet its growth targets it is
essential that the Group continue to renew
existing contracts and win new contracts.
Changes in the value of net contract
business is a principal performance
indicator monitored by the Board. 
Operating Procedures
All managers are provided with copies of
the various policies and procedures
manuals, covering operating procedures,
security, health and safety, and personnel
procedures. Furthermore, these
documents are also available on the
Company  intranet'. Compliance with
these policies and procedures is
monitored on a regular basis. 
Control over Treasury
The Group employs a tax and treasury
manager, to make optimal use of the
funds and borrowing opportunities at the
Group's disposal. The Group does not
have any complex derivatives or foreign
exchange contracts. The Group policy
has been to partially hedge currency
exposures arising from investment
overseas, by borrowing in the currency of
the overseas country, as and when
required, in order to manage the risk of
fluctuating rates of exchange.
Furthermore, the Group has recently set
up a Euro-cash pool in order to optimise
the management of non-sterling cash.
Internal Audit
The head of risk management visits each
business unit in accordance with a
modular  rolling plan' of internal audit
work. Following each review, a draft
report is prepared, setting out the results
of the work. The comments of the
relevant management team are then
incorporated, and the report is then
published in final form.
The head of risk management submits a
quarterly report to the Audit Committee,
summarising work completed within the
period. He presents his findings to the
Audit Committee, together with the areas
on which he will focus in the forthcoming
months. Copies of the reports are
circulated to all senior managers. 
There is also a provision giving the head
of risk management unrestricted access 
to the non-executive directors, should
this be deemed necessary. 
In addition, the head of risk management
facilitates and reviews the risk
management process, and administers
the Group insurance programme. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Board gives a high priority to
communications with shareholders. 
There are regular meetings with
individual institutional shareholders as
well as general presentations after the
interim and preliminary results. Copies of
the interim and final accounts are sent to
every shareholder, and Company
information is published regularly via its
website (www.synstar.com). There is also
an opportunity for individual shareholders
to question the Board at the annual
general meeting, and the Company
responds to numerous enquiries from
individual shareholders throughout 
the year.