 System C | annual report and financial statements 2009
Principles of good governance 
As an entity quoted on AIM, System C is not required 
to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance 2006 (the Code ). However, following the 
admission of its shares to AIM in 2005, the Company has 
adopted many of the best practice provisions contained 
in the Code and continues to make considerable 
progress in improving its procedures in this respect.
The Board strongly believes in providing a framework 
for establishing good corporate governance and 
accountability and has identified the policies and 
procedures described below to support this approach. 
The Board 
The Board has ultimate responsibility and accounatability 
for the Group's operations. During the year the Board 
comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Sales and Strategy Director, the Finance Director and 
three non-executive directors. 
During the year 10 board meetings, 2 audit committee 
meetings and 4 Remuneration Committee meetings 
were held. There were no meetings of the nominations 
committee held in this financial year. The Directors 
attended these meetings as follows:
 Director  Board  Audit  Remuneration  Nomination  
  meetings Committee Committee Committee
 Jim Horsburgh 10 2 4 -
 Dr Ian Denley 9 - - -
 Markus Bolton 10 - - -
 Andrew Coll 10 2 - -
 Dr Christopher McLaren 10 2 4 -
 Dr John Forrest 10 2 4 -
 Thomas Chambers 10 2 4 -
The Board believes its current structure is appropriate for the scale of the business and enables the Group to be 
managed efficiently.
The specific responsibilities reserved to the Board 
include, but are not limited to: 
 	 Setting strategy and approving an annual budget and  
 medium-term projections;  
 	 Reviewing operational and financial performance; 
 	 Approving any acquisitions, divestments and material  
 capital expenditure;  
 	 Reviewing the Group's systems of financial control and  
 risk management;  
 	 Ensuring that appropriate management development  
 and succession plans are in place;  
 	 Reviewing the environmental, health and safety   
 performance of the Group;  
 	 Approving appointments to the Board and the   
 Company Secretary;  
 	 Approving policies relating to  Directors' remuneration
 and the severance of Director's contracts; and 
 	 Ensuring that an appropriate and constructive   
 dialogue takes place with shareholders.
corporate governance statement 
22  annual report and financial statements 2009 | System C
23 
The Board has a procedure through which the Directors 
are able to take independent advice at the Company's 
expense in the furtherance of their responsibilities.
The Directors also have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary 
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with.
The Group has adopted a share dealing code for 
Directors and senior employees on the same terms as 
the Model Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and independent 
Non-Executive Directors
Different individuals hold the posts of Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer and there is a clear division of 
responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and 
ensuring its effectiveness. The Chief Executive Officer 
is responsible for running the business and for ensuring 
that accurate, timely and clear information is presented 
at the Board meetings or when otherwise appropriate.
The role of Chairman was an executive role throughout 
the year ended 31 May 2007 and up until 31 August 
2007, which was a departure from the Code in terms of 
the independence criteria outlined. As mentioned in the 
Annual reports of previous years the role of an executive 
chairman was deemed appropriate for a period following 
the admission of the Company's ordinary shares to AIM.  
The requirement for this role is no longer considered 
necessary and following recommendations from the 
Nominations Committee Jim Horsburgh assumed the 
role of a non-executive Chairman on 1 September 2007.
The Board is balanced by an appropriate non-executive 
element. All of the Non-Executive Directors, save for Dr 
Christopher McLaren by virtue of his significant interest 
in the ordinary shares and his longstanding involvement 
with the Company, are considered by the Board to be 
independent and have no relationships interfering with 
their independent judgment.  
Professional development 
The Chairman is responsible for processes to ensure 
that directors keep their skills and knowledge up to 
date and to encourage their professional development. 
The Group ensures that adequate time and financial 
resources are available for directors to attend 
appropriate training. New directors are encouraged 
to participate in the Group's induction programme 
and to meet senior managers and staff. In addition, all 
directors are encouraged to attend Company events 
and take a proactive role in informing themselves about 
the Group through a variety of means, including the 
intranet, newsletters, site visits, the business's events and 
attendance at appropriate stakeholder meetings.
Relations with shareholders 
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Finance 
Director are the principal points of contact for investors, 
analysts, fund managers, media and other interested 
parties. Access is available to the Non-Executive 
Directors if this is required.  
Meetings with analysts and institutional investors are 
held following the interim and preliminary results 
announcements.
The Board is kept appraised about shareholder relations 
and has full access to reports from the Company's 
nominated adviser, Charles Stanley, and financial public 
relations advisors, Maitland Consultancy.
Board Committees 
The Board has established three committees to deal with 
matters in accordance with written terms of reference 
which are available on request from the Company 
Secretary. They are the audit committee, a Remuneration 
Committee and a nominations committee. 
A majority of the members of the committees are 
independent Non-Executive directors. 
> System C | annual report and financial statements 2009
Audit Committee 
The audit committee is chaired by Thomas Chambers 
and also comprises Dr Christopher McLaren and 
Dr John Forrest.
No members of the committee have any links with 
System C's external auditors.
The audit committee formally meets two times per 
year and otherwise as required. The audit committee 
considers all matters relating to financial controls and 
reporting, internal and external audits, the scope 
and results of the audits, the independence and 
objectivity of the auditors and also keeps under review 
the effectiveness of the Company's controls and risk 
management. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the annual report and financial statements 
and interim statements remains with the Board. The 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, other directors and 
representatives from the finance function may attend and 
speak at meetings of the Audit Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors 
during the year for audit and other services are set out in 
Note 5 to the financial statements.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by  
Dr Christopher McLaren and also comprises Thomas 
Chambers and Dr John Forrest. Since the role 
of chairman moving to a non executive position, 
Jim Horsburgh normally attends meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee meets formally at least 
twice each year and otherwise as required.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in 
the Directors Remuneration Report. The Remuneration 
Committee considers all material elements of 
remuneration policy, remuneration and incentives 
of executive directors and senior management with 
reference to independent remuneration research 
and professional advice in accordance with the 
Combined Code.
No director is permitted to participate in discussions 
or decisions concerning his own remuneration, and 
the remuneration of members of the Remuneration 
Committee shall be determined in accordance with good 
practice by the remaining Board members. Details of 
directors' service contracts are provided in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee 
The nomination committee is chaired by Dr John Forrest 
and also comprises Dr Christopher McLaren and Thomas 
Chambers.The nominations committee has responsibility 
for considering the size, structure and composition of the 
Board, the retirement and appointment of directors and 
will make appropriate recommendations to the Board in 
relation to these matters. The nominations committee 
meets formally as required.
Potential candidates to the Board are interviewed either 
by the nominations committee or a panel appointed by 
that committee. An appointment requires final approval 
by the Board prior to an offer being forwarded.
<
corporate governance statement 
24  annual report and fi nancial statements 2009 | System C
25 
Internal control
In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull 
Committee, the Board accepts responsibility for the 
Group's system of internal control; sets appropriate 
policies on internal control; seeks regular assurance that 
enables it to satisfy itself that the system is functioning 
effectively; and ensures that the system of internal 
control is effective in managing risks in the manner which 
it has approved.
The directors continue to review the effectiveness of the 
Group's system of fi nancial and non-fi nancial controls, 
including operational and compliance controls, risk 
management and the Group's high level internal
control arrangements. These reviews include an 
assessment of internal controls and, in particular, internal 
fi nancial controls.
The Board views the careful management of risk as a key 
management activity. Managing business risk to deliver 
opportunities is a key element of all activities. These 
business risks, which may be strategic, operational, 
reputational, fi nancial or environmental, should be 
understood and visible.
The Board approves the Group's annual budget which
is prepared in the context of the Board approved 
business plan. 
The Board receives monthly fi nancial reports which 
assess performance in comparison with the annual 
budget and in relation to periodic re-forecasts. 
Key performance indicators are regularly reviewed at 
Board level and by senior managers responsible for key 
areas of the business.
The Group has implemented a whistle blowing policy as 
part of its ongoing review of its risk policies.
The Group does not currently have an internal audit 
function, however the Board will consider the need to 
create one as the business grows. 
annual report and fi nancial statements 2009 | System C