 T. Clarke plc electrical engineers and contractors
Corporate Governance
Introduction
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and continues to embrace the principles contained
in the Combined Code (the Old Code ) applicable to listed companies in formulating and applying the company's
corporate governance policies.  It has reviewed the recommendations of the Higgs Review on non-executive directors
and the Smith Report on audit committees which have led to the implementation of a new Combined Code (the New
Code ).  Although the New Code is not effective for this set of accounts, the Board is putting in place procedures to
enable it to report compliance with regard to the New Code in the future.  In this report compliances with both Codes
will be reported but only non-compliances with the Old Code will be highlighted.
Directors
The Board comprises six executive and two non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, who have the necessary
skills and experience to effectively operate and control the business conducted by the group.  The Board meets once
a month to consider matters specifically reserved for its attention and decision.  The attendance record of individual
Directors and their inclusion on the other committees is shown on the table below.  Brief Biographies of each Director
are given on page 1.
The audit committee met once in 2003, and once at the beginning of 2004.  Both members attended both meetings.
The remuneration committee met twice in 2003 and both members attended both meetings.
Management information systems are in place to enable the Directors to make informed decisions to discharge their
duties properly.
The subsidiary company Managing Directors are invited to attend two of the board meetings each year to report directly
to the Board on the performance of their company and be in a position to meet with the Non-Executive Directors.  Also,
in accordance with the company's articles, the Technical Directors meet with the Executive Directors in a quarterly
meeting to discuss in detail the performance of the main operating company and to be informed of group policy
and strategy.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who ensures that the Board receives
appropriate and timely information for its decision making, that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and
regulatory requirements are met.  Board papers are circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow time to consider
the adequacy of the information provided for decision making.
Owing to the small size of the Board there is no Senior Independent Non-Executive Director appointed.  Under the
Company's Articles of Association, as amended by Special Resolution 1 at the AGM scheduled for 7
th
 May 2004, one-
third of the Board retires by rotation each year and all Directors are now required to offer themselves for re-election at
 Board Meetings 
Held in 2003 
Board Meetings 
Attended in 2003 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
     
R. J. Race 12 12 Yes Yes 
P. E. Stanborough 12 12   
L. M. Fairman 12 12   
B. V. DeFalco 12 12   
L. J. Arnold 12 11 Yes Yes 
J.H. Nixon 
B. J. Buchanan 
  7 
12 
 6 
10 
  
J. M. Daly 12 12   
M. Lawrence appointed 2
nd
 May 2003   7   6   
 
14 T. Clarke plc electrical engineers and contractors
Corporate Governance continued
least every three years.  Any Director appointed since the last AGM is required to present himself for election at the
subsequent AGM.
Audit Committee
The primary task of this committee is reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to the
shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management and the audit process.  The committee consists of
the two Independent Non-Executive Directors and each meeting is chaired by the Chairman and attended by the group
external auditors.  Under the provisions of the Old Code the committee should consist of at least three Non-Executive
Directors (Ref: D.3.1).  The committee meets at least twice a year and the Chief Executive and the Finance Director are
invited to attend the meeting held immediately prior to the release of the group's annual results.
The audit committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the group external auditors and reviews
the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by them.  An analysis is shown in note 4 to the Annual Accounts.
During the year, the only non-audit work undertaken by the group auditor comprised of tax compliance advice and
acquisition due diligence.
In light of the procedures laid out below in the section headed  Internal Control' and after allowing for the internal checking
procedures carried out under the group quality control system, the committee do not currently consider there is a need
for a separate internal audit function.
Remuneration Committee
The brief for this committee is to determine the service contracts, targets and structure of the rewards for the Group Chief
Executive and the Executive Directors and to monitor the policies being applied in remunerating other Senior Executives.
The committee consists of the two Independent Non-Executive Directors which includes the Chairman and the committee
meet formally twice during the year.
The committee and the Board as a whole follow the provisions of Schedules A & B of the Old Code in designing
Performance Related Remuneration and disclosing relevant information in the Directors' Remuneration Report.  However,
contrary to the Old Code (reference Schedule A.7 and Schedule B.5) Executive Directors' bonuses are pensionable under
the rules of the group pension scheme.  This is considered appropriate in the circumstances as a substantial proportion
of the remuneration package is related to performance and there is no other long term incentive scheme.
The Directors' remuneration report appears on pages 11 to 13.
Nominations
The company does not have a Nominations Committee as required by the Old Code (Reference A.5.1) as it believes the
relatively small size of the Board does not justify its existence at this time.  However, any Board member is entitled to
recommend new members for the Board and the Board, as a whole, considers any such recommendation.
Shareholder Relations
The company recognises the importance of dialogue with both institutional and private shareholders.  Presentations are
made to brokers, analysts and institutional investors at the time of the announcement of final and half year results and
there are regular meetings with analysts and investors throughout the year which are organised through the Company's
broker so that the group strategy can be explained and the investment community can communicate their views to
executive management.  It is usual that Messrs. Stanborough, Fairman and Daly take these presentations either as a team
of two or  three and that the feedback reports provided by the Company's broker are forwarded to the Non-Executive
Directors so that they can be kept informed of the views of shareholders.
The Board has always invited communications from its private investors and encourages participation by them at the
Annual General Meeting.  All Board members present at the AGM are available to answer questions from shareholders.
15 T. Clarke plc electrical engineers and contractors
Notice of the AGM in excess of 20 working days is given and the business of the meeting conducted with separate
resolutions, voted on initially by a show of hands with the result of the voting being indicated.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such a
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement of loss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the group's
significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31
st
 December 2003 and up to the date of approval of
the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the board and that it accords with the internal
control guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (Turnbull guidance).
The internal control procedures are delegated to Executive Directors, Technical Directors and Senior Management in
the group, operating within a clearly defined departmental structure.  Each department assesses the level of authorisation
appropriate to its decision making process after evaluation of potential benefits and risks.  Monthly progress on contracts
is monitored formally by the Board.
On a quarterly basis Management Accounts are reviewed by the Board in order to provide effective monitoring of
financial performance.  At the same time the Board considers other significant strategic, organisation and compliance
issues to ensure that the group's assets are safeguarded and financial information and accounting records can be relied
on.
The Board's agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and control and receives reports thereon from the
Engineering Executive Meeting, which takes place quarterly and which is chaired by a member of the Board.  The emphasis
is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting by exception.  At its meeting on 11
th
 March
2004 the Board carried out the annual assessment of the year ended 31
st
 December 2003 by considering documentation
from the audit committee and reviewing the need for an internal audit function.
Going Concern
After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance continued
16