 Corporate Governance Statements
Statement Of Compliance With The Combined Code
The Company has complied throughout the year with all of the provisions of the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 ( the Combined Code').
Statement About Applying The Principles Of Good Governance
The Company has applied the principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined 
Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above. Further explanation of how 
the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with directors' remuneration, 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
The Board
The Board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, a chief executive, one other executive 
director and two non-executive directors. Biographies of these directors appear on page 13.
David Hewitt has held the position of non-executive director since 1997 and has been confirmed by 
the Board as the Company's senior independent director. All the non-executive directors are considered 
by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship that could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year. It considers all issues relating to the strategy, 
direction and future development of the Group. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for 
decision that is regularly updated. The requirement for Board approval on these matters is understood 
and communicated widely throughout the Group. The non-executive directors meet with the chairman 
separately during the year. In addition, the non-executive directors meet without the chairman present 
to appraise the chairman's performance.
Operational decision making, operational performance and the formulation of strategic proposals to 
the Board are controlled by an executive committee that comprises the chief executive, the finance 
director and subsidiary directors. The executive committee meets regularly throughout the year.
To enable the Board to function effectively and the directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and 
timely access is provided to all relevant information. There is an agreed procedure for directors to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense. This is in addition to the 
access every director has to the Company Secretary. 
Board And Committee Attendance
The following table details the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 52 weeks 
ended 28 January 2006 and the attendance record of each director.
Board 
meetings
Audit 
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee
Number of meetings held in year 10 2 1 -
Robert Breare 10 2 1 -
David A Bernstein 9 2 1 -
David B Hewitt 10 2 1 -
Raymond S Kelvin 9 - - -
Lindsay D Page 10 - - -
17  Audit Committee
During the period, Robert Breare was chairman of the audit committee and the other committee members 
were David Bernstein and David Hewitt. All the committee members are non-executive directors and meet 
at least twice a year to review and approve the interim and annual financial statements, before submission 
for approval by the Board and considers any matters raised by the auditors. The committee will consider 
significant financial reporting judgements contained in the financial statements, including accounting 
policies and compliance, areas of management judgements and estimates and the effectiveness of financial 
reporting and controls. The Board considers all members to have relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee oversees the Company's relationship with the external auditors and makes 
recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, re-appointment and removal and approves 
their remuneration and terms of engagement. The Board and committee also review the independence of 
the external auditors and considers the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The committee is responsible for the review of the Company's procedures for responding to the 
allegations of whistleblowers and the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns 
about possible financial reporting irregularities.
Nomination Committee
During the period, Robert Breare was chairman of the nomination committee and the other committee 
members were David Bernstein and David Hewitt. All the committee members are non-executive 
directors. The committee is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board. 
There were no meetings during the period and no board appointments.
All non-executive directors are advised of the time commitment considered necessary to enable them 
to fulfil their responsibilities prior to appointment.
Appointments To The Board
Newly appointed directors are given training appropriate to the level of their previous experience. 
Non-executive directors meet regularly with members of the executive committee and other personnel 
within the organisation. In addition, site visits ensure that the non-executive directors gain first hand 
experience of developments within the Group.
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Company's Articles 
of Association, to retire and seek re-election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Company's Articles of Association require those directors who have been in office for at least 
two years from the date of their original appointment (or from the date of their latest re-election 
if later) to retire from office.
Communication With Shareholders
The Group attaches considerable importance to the effectiveness of its communication with its 
shareholders. The full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders and further copies are 
distributed to others with potential interest in the Group's performance.
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its 
institutional shareholders by making general presentations after the interim and preliminary results; 
meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and gather feedback; and communicating regularly 
throughout the year. All shareholders have access to these presentations, as well as to the annual 
report and accounts and to other information about the Company, through the website at 
www.tedbaker.co.uk. They may also attend the Company's Annual General Meeting at which they 
have the opportunity to ask questions.
Non-executive directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the executive directors 
and are provided with independent feedback from investor meetings.
19 Internal Control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for 
Directors on the Combined Code  ('the Turnbull guidance'), the Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that has been 
in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and 
that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. In particular, it has reviewed 
and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and 
the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed. Management is responsible for the 
identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together with the 
design and operation of suitable internal controls. These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may 
be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption 
in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The Group has an independent internal audit function whose findings are regularly reviewed by the 
executive committee and the Board. The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the 
internal audit activities.
Management reports regularly on its review of risks and how they are managed to the Risk Committee, 
whose main role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the 
system of control necessary to manage such risks, and to present their findings to the Board. 
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf of the executive committee on significant changes in 
the business and the external environment which affect significant risks. The Finance Director provides 
the Board with monthly financial information which includes key performance indicators. Where areas 
for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by the 
Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee includes the Finance Director and various heads of department. It reviews, on a 
twice yearly basis, the risk management and control process and considers:
  the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment 
 and management of significant risks faced by the Group;
  the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others; 
  the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk; and
  the annual reporting procedures.
Additionally, the Risk Committee keeps abreast of all changes made to the systems and follows up on 
areas that require improvement.  It reports to the Board at twice yearly intervals or more frequently 
should the need arise.
20