   
 
15 
Corporate Governance Statement 
 
The Board has complied with the revised Combined Code produced by the Committee on Corporate Governance 
(except where detailed below) and has applied the Principles of Good Governance in the following ways: 
 
The Board of Directors 
 
The Board meets regularly to review the progress of the Company and to discuss the measures required for its 
future development.  Directors are provided in advance with a formal schedule of matters to be discussed at each 
meeting, and with the information needed to monitor the progress of the Company.  Records of meetings and the 
decisions of the Board are maintained by the Company Secretary and are approved by the Board at the following 
meeting.  All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and if required are able to 
take independent advice at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their duties.  Any question of the removal 
of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.  The members of the Board are all experienced and 
well qualified and further training has not been judged necessary to date. Due to the size and nature of the Company 
and the time required to conduct a formal evaluation of the Board, as envisaged by Section A.6 of the revised 
Combined Code, such an evaluation was considered inappropriate.  No formal meeting took place during the year to 
appraise the performance of the Chairman as the Board did not consider it would be useful. The Chairman informally 
discusses issues with other non-executive directors periodically as required.  
 
Table of Attendance at Meetings during the year ended 31 March 2006 
 
Name of Director Board 
Meeting 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Meeting 
Audit 
Committee 
Meeting 
Nominations 
Committee 
Meeting 
Number of meetings 14 2 3 1 
     
Peter Nutting 12 2 3 1 
Charles Wigoder 14   1 
Stephen Davis 14   1 
Keith Stella 13 2 3 1 
John Levin 8   1 
Richard Michell 14    
Dominic Wheatley 4 1 0  
 
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
 
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the Chairman, Peter Nutting, responsible 
for running the Board, and the Chief Executive, Charles Wigoder, responsible for running the Group's business. 
 
Board Balance 
 
The Board is composed of two executive directors and four non-executive directors.  The non-executive directors 
have wide experience and a variety of skills.  All are independent of management and are free from any business or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Keith Stella has 
agreed to act as the senior independent non-executive director. Richard Michell was previously Finance Director of 
the Group and is therefore not considered independent in accordance with the revised Combined Code. 
 
 
 
    
 
16 
Corporate Governance Statement (continued) 
 
Supply of Information 
 
Information is supplied to the Board in a timely manner with Board papers and accounts being provided in advance 
of meetings.  When the Board requests additional information it is provided. 
 
Re-election 
 
One third of all directors are required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and all newly appointed 
directors are required to offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.  
 
Directors' Remuneration 
 
The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose responsibility it is to ensure that the remuneration of directors is 
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate people of the quality required.  The Remuneration Committee is composed 
of three non-executive directors, including Peter Nutting (who is also chairman of this Committee). The revised 
Combined Code (provision B.2.1) states that the Committee should only comprise independent non-executive 
directors and does not define the Chairman of the Board as independent, however the Board considers that Mr. 
Nutting makes a valuable contribution to the Remuneration Committee due to his considerable business experience.     
 
The Directors' Remuneration Report giving the names of the members of the committee and details of the 
emoluments of each director may be found on pages 18 to 20. 
 
Audit Committee and Auditors 
 
The Audit Committee is composed of two non-executive directors, Peter Nutting (Chairman of the committee) and 
Keith Stella.  The revised Combined Code (provision C.3.1) states that the Committee should only comprise 
independent non-executive directors and does not define the Chairman of the Board as independent, however the 
Board considers that Mr. Nutting's financial knowledge and experience is important to the Audit Committee. The 
committee has written terms of reference which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it by 
the Board.  Among these duties are the review of the risk assessment, the internal controls, financial reporting and 
the results of the audit, the appointment of external auditors and the direction of the auditors to investigate any 
matters of concern.  
 
In its meetings the committee receives a report on the risk assessment, the system of internal controls and its 
effectiveness, and uses the meeting with the auditors as a further means of evaluating these measures. 
 
The Auditors have provided certain tax and other services to the Group during the year. The Audit Committee have 
reviewed the services provided and consider that auditor objectivity and independence are not compromised. The 
Audit Committee considers that auditors are best placed to provide these services. 
 
Nomination Committee 
 
The Nomination Committee is composed of Peter Nutting (Chairman of the committee), Stephen Davis, J Levin, 
Keith Stella and Charles Wigoder.  The committee has written terms of reference which describe the authority and 
duties which have been delegated to it by the Board. The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new executive and non-executive directors, including making 
recommendations as to the composition of the Board generally and the balance between executive and non-
executive directors appointed to the Board. 
 
    
 
17 
Corporate Governance Statement (continued) 
 
Relations with Shareholders 
 
It is the policy of the Group to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and to keep them informed about 
the objectives of the business.  The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chief Executive to discuss issues 
with major shareholders.  The Chief Executive feeds back comments from major shareholders to the other directors. 
Both the Chairman and the Chief Executive have periodic discussions with the Company's Brokers and feed back 
issues to the Board as appropriate. 
 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days 
before the meeting.  Separate resolutions are proposed for each issue including the adoption of the Report and 
Accounts, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the appointment of auditors.  Proxy votes are counted and the 
meeting is advised of the number of proxies lodged for and against each resolution.  The Chairman of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the remaining non-executive directors are available to answer 
questions.  Shareholders who attend are invited to ask questions and take part in the meeting. 
 
Financial Reporting 
 
The Board believes that the Report and Accounts contained in this document represent a balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.  The directors acknowledge their responsibility 
for preparing the accounts and the auditors have made a statement in this regard. 
 
Internal Control 
 
The Board of Directors has continued to review the internal controls of the Group and the principal risks which the 
Group faces.  Measures have been taken to reduce certain risks and improve control over the assets of the Group. 
The Group is fully compliant with the guidance given by the Turnbull Committee. The Board acknowledges that it is 
responsible for the Group's system of internal control and risk management, and has completed the procedures for 
review and evaluation of internal controls and risk management.  It is however recognised that no system can 
eliminate risk entirely. The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the need for an internal audit function and 
have concluded that the size and nature of the Group do not justify such a function at present. 
 
Going Concern 
 
The Directors believe, after making inquiries they consider to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. 
 
Policy Statement 
 
The Group has been in compliance with the revised Combined Code throughout the year, save as referred to above. 
Careful consideration has been given by the Board to the departures from the revised Combined Code. In all 
instances, the Board has considered the commercial implications and concluded that the instances of non-
compliance were not in any way to the detriment of the Company or its shareholders. 
 
 
 
  