 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 25
BUSINESS
The Board has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code ) issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (except where detailed below) and has applied the principles of good
governance in the following ways:
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board meets regularly to review the progress of the Company and to discuss the measures required for its future
development. Directors are provided in advance with a formal schedule of matters to be discussed at each meeting,
and with the information needed to monitor the progress of the Company. Records of meetings and the decisions of
the Board are maintained by the Company Secretary and are approved by the Board at the following meeting. All
directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and if required are able to take
independent advice at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their duties. Any question of the removal of the
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. While the members of the Board are all experienced and
well qualified, the opportunity to receive further training at the Company's expense is available to them at all times. 
An internal evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, of its Committees and of the contribution of the
directors during the course of the year has been carried out in accordance with section A.6 of the Combined Code.
The evaluation was carried out through the completion of formal detailed board, and board committee, evaluation
questionnaires by each director.  The board evaluation included an appraisal of the Chairman, although no separate
meeting took place to appraise his performance as required by section A.1.3 of the Combined Code.  The evaluation
concluded that the Board and its Committees had operated satisfactorily during the year. 
TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AT FORMAL MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
Name of Director Board Remuneration Audit Nomination
Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 13 3 3 -
Peter Nutting 12 3 1 -
Charles Wigoder 13 - - -
Andrew Lindsay 12 - - -
Chris Houghton 12 - - -
Melvin Lawson 12 - - -
Richard Michell 10 - - -
Michael Pavia 12 3 3 -
Keith Stella 13 3 3 -
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
There was a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company during the current year with the Chairman
responsible for running the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer responsible for running the Group's business.  
BOARD BALANCE
During the current financial year, the Board was composed of three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Keith Stella and Michael Pavia were deemed to be independent non-executive directors, whilst all other non-executive
directors remained independent of management and were free from any business or other relationship which could
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 26
During the year, the Board has re-evaluated the independence of Melvin Lawson as a director of the Company.  On
joining the Board in September 2006, Mr Lawson was deemed not to be independent, primarily on the basis of the
size of his shareholding in the Company.  However, following consultation with the Company's major shareholders
and certain corporate governance bodies, the Board has concluded that it would be more appropriate to classify Mr
Lawson as an independent director.
Keith Stella remained the senior independent non-executive director during the year. 
BOARD CHANGES
As referred to in the Chairman's statement, the balance of the Board has been re-evaluated in the light of the intended
retirements of Messrs. Peter Nutting, Keith Stella and Richard Michell at the forthcoming AGM.  Charles Wigoder, the
current Chief Executive Officer, will assume the role of Executive Chairman, with Andrew Lindsay, the current Chief
Operating Officer moving to Chief Executive Officer.  In addition, a new independent non-executive director and
Deputy Chairman, Julian Schild, will be appointed to the Board.  Mr Schild will also serve on each of the Audit
Committee and Nomination Committee, and will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following 
Mr Stella's retirement.
The Combined Code specifies that a chief executive should not go on to become the chairman of the same company
(provision A.2.1).  However, the Company considers that in this case, in the light of his extensive knowledge and
experience of the business, Charles Wigoder is best placed to act as Executive Chairman of the Company following
the retirement of Peter Nutting.  In accordance with the Combined Code, the Company has consulted its major
shareholders in relation to this change and believes that the governance position of the Board is safeguarded through
the appointment of Julian Schild as an independent non-executive director, who will also act as Deputy Chairman.
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION
Information is supplied to the Board in a timely manner with board papers and accounts being provided in advance
of meetings. When the Board requests additional information it is provided.
RE-ELECTION
One third of all directors are required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and all newly appointed
directors are required to offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose responsibility it is to ensure that the remuneration of directors is
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate people of the quality required. The Remuneration Committee was comprised of
three non-executive directors, namely Keith Stella (Chairman of the Committee), Peter Nutting and Michael Pavia. The
Combined Code (provision B.2.1) states that the Committee should only comprise independent non-executive directors
and does not define Mr Nutting as independent. However, the Board considers that Mr Nutting provided a valuable
contribution to the Remuneration Committee due to his considerable business experience. The directors' remuneration
report, giving the details of the emoluments of each director, may be found on pages 29 to 35.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Company's website
(www.telecomplus.co.uk), which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it by the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
CONTINUED TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 27
BUSINESS
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee was composed of three non-executive directors, Michael Pavia (Chairman of the Committee),
Peter Nutting and Keith Stella. The Combined Code (provision C.3.1) states that the Committee should only comprise
independent non-executive directors and does not define Mr Nutting as independent. However, the Board considers
that Mr Nutting's financial knowledge and considerable business experience were important to the Audit Committee. 
The activities of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 37 to 38.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee comprised Michael Pavia (Chairman of Committee), Keith Stella and Charles Wigoder, and
therefore has a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the Combined Code (provision A.4). The
purpose of the Nomination Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new directors. No
appointments to the Board were made during the financial year.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Company's website
(www.telecomplus.co.uk), which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it by the Board.  
The activities of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 36.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
It is the policy of the Company to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and to keep them informed about
the objectives of the business. The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chief Executive Officer to discuss
issues with major shareholders. The Chief Executive Officer provides feedback from major shareholders to the other
directors, in order to ensure that Board members, and in particular non-executive directors, develop a balanced
understanding of the views of major investors.  The executive directors met with a number of the Company's main
shareholders during the year.
Both the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer have periodic discussions with the Company's brokers and feed back
issues to the Board as appropriate.  During the year Brewin Dolphin Investment Banking was appointed as joint broker to
the Company to act alongside KBC and provide additional coverage and enhance the Company's profile with investors.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days
before the meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed for each issue including the adoption of the Report and
Accounts, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the appointment of auditors. Proxy votes are counted and the
meeting is advised of the number of proxies lodged for and against each resolution. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination committees and the remaining non-executive directors are available to answer
questions. Shareholders who attend are invited to ask questions and take part in the meeting.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Board believes that the report and accounts contained in this document represent a balanced and understandable
assessment of the Group's position and prospects. The directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the
accounts and the auditors have made a statement in this regard. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
CONTINUED
TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 28
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group's systems of internal control and risk management.  However it
recognises that any system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.  
The executive directors, in conjunction with the Company's senior management team, regularly review the key risks
faced by the Group and the controls in place to mitigate these risks.  The results of these reviews are documented and
reported to the Audit Committee and the Company's external auditors twice per year.
The board of directors has continued to review the internal controls of the Group and the principal risks which the
Group faces during the year.  Although no material weaknesses have been identified, measures have been taken to
reduce certain risks and improve control over the assets of the Group.  The principal risks faced by the Company and
the measures taken to address these risks are set out on pages 17 to 18 of the Business Review.
SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS
Details of the Company's share capital and substantial shareholdings can be found in the Directors' Report under the
capital structure and substantial shareholdings sections on pages 23 and 24.
POLICY STATEMENT
The Group has been in compliance with the Combined Code throughout the year, save as referred to above. Careful
consideration has been given by the Board to the departures from the Combined Code. In all instances, the Board
has considered the commercial implications and concluded that the instances of non-compliance were not in any way
to the detriment of the Company or its shareholders.