 The Combined Code
The Group has considered the principles and
provisions of the Combined Code: Principles of
Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice
(the Hampel Code).  Apart from the exception
noted below the Group has been in compliance
with the Code provisions set out in Section 1
throughout the year ended 31 December 2003
and is committed to the effective
implementation of the principles of good
corporate governance.
As noted below the Board has concluded that it
should include at least two Non-executive
Directors, and at the year end, due to timings of
appointments and resignations, there was only
one Non-executive Director for the period from
22 December 2003 to 8 January 2004.  
Therefore we are non-compliant with Code
provision D3.1 which states that the Audit
Committee should consist of at least three Non-
executive Directors.
The Group has reviewed the revisions resulting
from the final reports of Messrs. Higgs and Smith
and plan to adopt those appropriate to it, bearing
in mind its planned move to AIM in the
forthcoming year.
The Board
The Group considers that in the light of its
planned move to AIM and the recommendations
in the Higgs report relating to smaller listed
companies that going forward it should be
controlled through a Board of at least five
Directors of which two would be Non-executive.
At 31 December 2003, the Board comprised
three Executive Directors and only one Non-
executive Director (the Chairman) due to the
timing of the resignation of Jim Webster on 22
December and the appointment of Tony Harris on
8 January 2004.
The Non-executive Chairman was primarily
responsible for the running of the Board and
ensuring all Directors received sufficient
information on financial, business and corporate
issues prior to meetings.  The Chief Executive
Officer is responsible for day-to-day management
of the business and for implementing Group
strategy.
The Board meets monthly and has a formal
schedule of matters reserved to it.  It is
responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition
and disposal policy, approval of major capital
expenditure and consideration of significant
financing matters.  It is responsible for the
identification of key business risks faced by the
Group and ensures plans are prepared for their
mitigation.  The Board sets and monitors high-
level business objectives based on financial,
safety and other performance criteria, which
cascade through to reporting entities and other
business units.  The Board also considers
environmental, employee issues and key
appointments.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, will
submit themselves for re-election at least once
every three years.
Telspec has a formal procedure set out to give
Directors the right to consult the Company's
professional advisers and, if necessary, seek
independent professional advice at the
Company's expense in the furtherance of their
duties as Directors of Telspec.
16
Corporate Governance Board Committees
The Board has established and appointed an
Audit Committee, a Nominations Committee and
a Remuneration Committee, each chaired by the
Non-executive Chairman of the Group.  These
Board Committees report on their deliberations to
the full Board and discuss findings and
recommendations before obtaining endorsement.
All Committees aim to have two Non-executive
Director members and the Committees are
authorised to obtain outside professional help
where deemed appropriate.
The Nominations Committee makes
recommendations to the Board on all new Board
appointments.  The Committee meets at least
once a year, and also advises on general Board
composition.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the
remuneration packages of Executive Directors,
including the allocation of share options, ensuring
that such remuneration levels are appropriate
and acceptable.
The report of the Board to the shareholders on
Directors' remuneration is set out on pages 20 to
25.
The objective of the Audit Committee is to
ensure the objectivity and credibility of financial
reporting and to ensure that, in presenting
results to the shareholders, the Directors have
exercised due care, diligence and skill.  The Chief
Executive and the Finance Director attend
meetings by invitation.  The Audit Committee
holds meetings with the external auditors
whenever it feels it needs advice or clarification
of issues.  In any case, the external auditors
meet with the Audit Committee formally at least
twice per year.
The members of the Audit Committee until 26
September 2003 were Peter Espenhahn, Michael
Lacey and Jim Webster who were all
independent Non-executive Directors and the
committee was chaired by Peter Espenhahn.  The
members of the committee from 26 September
2003 were Michael Lacey and Jim Webster, and
the committee was chaired by Michael Lacey.
Jim Webster tendered his resignation on the 22
December 2003 and was replaced by Tony Harris
on 8 January 2004.
The frequency of Board and Committee meetings
during the year was as follows:
Board Meetings - 14 meetings held
Audit Committee - 2 meetings held
Remuneration Committee - 3 meetings held
Nomination Committee - 1 meeting held
Senior Independent Director
Jim Webster was the Senior Independent Director
until his resignation on 22 December 2003 and
he and the Chairman conferred regularly on
matters of importance.  Tony Harris became the
Senior Independent Director on his appointment
on 8 January 2004.
17
Corporate Governance 18
Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two-way
communication with both its institutional and
private shareholders, and will respond quickly to
all queries received whether orally or in writing.
All shareholders have at least twenty working
days notice of the Annual General Meeting at
which the Directors and Committee Chairmen are
introduced and are available for questions.
Financial Reporting
The Company's Annual Report includes a
Chairman's statement and the Financial Review is
now included with the Operating and Financial
Review.
Internal Control
The Directors are responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness.  The Directors have reviewed the
effectiveness of the internal control system,
which has been in place from the start of the
year to the date of approval of this report.  Such
a system can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material mis-
statement or loss.
The Group has a very comprehensive system of
reporting financial results to the Board; each
operating unit prepares monthly results with a
comparison against forecast.  The Board reviews
these for the Group as a whole and determines
appropriate action.
The key control procedures are described under
the following headings:
Quality and Integrity of Personnel
Employees are expected to consider and respect
one another and to strive to improve quality,
efficiency, safety and financial performance.  It is
the Group's policy to invest in the people needed
to support its markets.  The Group's policies are
detailed in the Telspec Group Standing Orders to
which all operating units are required to adhere.
Operating Unit Financial Controls
The Executive management has defined the
controls and procedures with which each
operating unit is required to comply.  Senior
members of the management review the
application of these procedures. 
Internal Audit
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal
audit function and considers that, for the time
being, and given the size and structure of the
Group, the existing regular reviews are adequate.
Information and Computer Systems
Much of the Group's financial and management
information is processed by and stored on
computer systems.  Accordingly, the Group has
established controls and procedures over the
security of data held on computer systems.
Back-up copies of all data are taken and retained
on and off-site.
Turnbull Compliance Statement
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the
Group was in place throughout the year.  The
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and
was updated during the year.  The process
accords with the Internal Control Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code produced by the
Turnbull Working Party.
Currently, risk management within the
organisation is undertaken by the management
team consisting of representatives of the finance,
operations, production, research and
development and sales functions, which meets
regularly to review the sales forecast, product
development, production programmes and other
operational and strategic risks.  A prioritised list
of potential risks is reviewed by the Board
monthly and the Chief Executive Officer has
responsibility for monitoring these risks and
reports back on a regular basis.  A rolling forecast
of the anticipated financial results for the year is
included in the monthly management accounts,
which are reviewed by the Board.
Corporate Governance 19
Improvements will continue to be made to
embed internal control and risk management
further into the operations of the business and to
deal with areas of improvement, which come to
management and the Board's attention.
Executive Management Board
The Chief Executive Officer manages the day-to-
day operational performance and risk areas
within the business with the assistance of the
Executive Management Board which comprises:
Martin Parmenter - Acting Chief Executive
Officer, Group Finance
Director and Company
Secretary
Philip Thorpe - Group Technical Director
Jeff May - Group Sales & Marketing
Director
Archie Forster - Manufacturing Director
John Larkin - UK Business Director
David Jenkinson - Chief Engineer
Going Concern
Having taken into account the Group's current
cash position, its cash flow projections and the
current banking facilities available to it, the
Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to
produce the financial statements on a going
concern basis.
Corporate Governance