 15
Corporate Governance
The Combined Code
The Group has considered the principles of the
Revised Combined Code which was introduced in
July 2003 which superseded and replaced the
Combined Code issued by the Hampel Committee
on Corporate Governance in 1998.
As noted in the previous years Annual Report the
company concluded that it should have a least
two Non-executive Directors and there was only
one until 8 January 2004.
Therefore, the company was non-compliant with
Code provision D3.1 which states that the Audit
Committee should consist of at least three Non-
executive Directors.
Otherwise the Group has been in compliance
with the principles set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code and is committed to the effective
implementation of the principles of good
corporate governance.
The Board
The Group considered in its previous report that,
going forward, it should be controlled through a
Board of at least five Directors of which two
would be Non-executive.
The Board now consists of three Executive
Directors, two Non-executive Directors and a
Non-executive Chairman. 
The Non-executive Chairman is primarily
responsible for the running of the Board and
ensuring all Directors received sufficient
information on financial, business and corporate
issues prior to meetings.  The Chief Executive
Officer is responsible for day-to-day management
of the business and for implementing Group
strategy.
The Board meets monthly and has a formal
schedule of matters reserved to it.  It is
responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition
and disposal policy, approval of major capital
expenditure and consideration of significant
financing matters.  It is responsible for the
identification of key business risks faced by the
Group and ensures plans are prepared for their
mitigation.  The Board sets and monitors high-
level business objectives based on financial,
safety and other performance criteria, which
cascade through to reporting entities and other
business units.  The Board also considers
environmental, employee issues and key
appointments.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, will
submit themselves for re-election at least once
every three years.
Telspec has a formal procedure set out to give
Directors the right to consult the Company's
professional advisers and, if necessary, seek
independent professional advice at the
Company's expense in the furtherance of their
duties as Directors of Telspec.
Board Committees
The Board has established and appointed a
Nominations Committee and a Remuneration
Committee, both chaired by the Non-executive
Chairman, and an Audit Committee chaired by
the Senior Independent Director.  These Board
Committees report on their deliberations to the
full Board and discuss findings and
recommendations before obtaining endorsement.
All Committees aim to have at least two Non-
executive Director members, plus the Non-
executive Chairman, and the Committees are
authorised to obtain outside professional help
where deemed appropriate.
During the year neither an external consultancy
nor open advertising has been used in the
appointment of a Chairman or Non-executive
Director.
The Nominations Committee makes
recommendations to the Board on all new Board
appointments.  The Committee meets at least
once a year, and also advises on general Board
composition. The Remuneration Committee reviews the
remuneration packages of Executive Directors,
including the allocation of share options, ensuring
that such remuneration levels are appropriate
and acceptable.
The report of the Board to the shareholders on
Directors' remuneration is set out on pages 19 to
24.
The objective of the Audit Committee is to
ensure the objectivity and credibility of financial
reporting and to ensure that, in presenting
results to the shareholders, the Directors have
exercised due care, diligence and skill.  The Chief
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer attend
meetings by invitation.  The Audit Committee
holds meetings with the external auditors
whenever it feels it needs advice or clarification
of issues.  In any case, the external auditors
meet with the Audit Committee formally at least
twice per year.
The members of the Audit Committee are Mark
Skilbeck and John Thomas who are independent
Non-executive Directors and the committee is
chaired by Tony Harris.  From 1 January 2004
there was only one Non-executive Director,
namely Michael Lacey. The members of the
committee from 8 January 2004 were Michael
Lacey and Tony Harris.  From the 18 March 2004
Michael Lacey resigned but was replaced by
Mark Skilbeck and John Thomas.
The frequency of Board and Committee meetings
during the year was as follows:
Board Meetings - 16 meetings held
Audit Committee - 2 meetings held
Remuneration Committee - 2 meetings held
Nomination Committee - 1 meeting held
Attendance at these meetings were as follows:
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
M. Skilbeck 11 1 2
J. Thomas 9 1 2
T. Harris 12 2 2 1
M. Lacey 3 1 1
S. Rakkar 12
P . Thorpe 16
J. May 4
M. Parmenter 7
The performance evaluation of Non-executive
Directors is undertaken by the Chairman.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman is
undertaken by the other Non-executive Directors. 
Senior Independent Director
Tony Harris became the Senior Independent
Director on his appointment on 8 January 2004.
Non-executive Board commitments
In the Directors and Advisors section of the
Annual Report and Accounts the Chairman's
significant commitments have been disclosed.
There are no changes to these commitments. 
Tony Harris has confirmed to the Board that he
has a position in NTL and has confirmed that he
will still have time to fulfil his role as a Non-
executive Director.
John Thomas has also confirmed that he has
sufficient time to meet what is expected of him
as a Non-executive Director.
16
Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two-way
communication with both its institutional and
private shareholders, and will respond quickly to
all queries received whether orally or in writing.
All shareholders have at least twenty working
days notice of the Annual General Meeting at
which the Directors and Committee Chairmen are
introduced and are available for questions.
Internal Control
The Directors are responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness.  The Directors have reviewed the
effectiveness of the internal control system,
which has been in place from the start of the
year to the date of approval of this report.  Such
a system can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material mis-
statement or loss.
The Group has a very comprehensive system of
reporting financial results to the Board; each
operating unit prepares monthly results with a
comparison against forecast.  The Board reviews
these for the Group as a whole and determines
appropriate action.
The key control procedures are described under
the following headings:
Quality and Integrity of Personnel
Employees are expected to consider and respect
one another and to strive to improve quality,
efficiency, safety and financial performance.  It is
the Group's policy to invest in the people needed
to support its markets.  The Group's policies are
detailed in the Telspec Group Standing Orders to
which all operating units are required to adhere.
Operating Unit Financial Controls
The Executive management has defined the
controls and procedures with which each
operating unit is required to comply.  Senior
members of the management review the
application of these procedures. 
Internal Audit
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal
audit function and considers that, for the time
being, and given the size and structure of the
Group, the existing regular reviews are adequate.
Information and Computer Systems
Much of the Group's financial and management
information is processed by and stored on
computer systems.  Accordingly, the Group has
established controls and procedures over the
security of data held on computer systems.
Back-up copies of all data are taken and retained
on and off-site.
Risk management
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the
Group was in place throughout the year.  The
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and
was updated during the year.  The process
accords with the Internal Control Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code produced by the
Turnbull Working Party.
Currently, risk management within the
organisation is undertaken by the management
team consisting of representatives of the finance,
operations, production, research and
development and sales functions, which meets
regularly to review the sales forecast, product
development, production programmes and other
operational and strategic risks.  A prioritised list
of potential risks is reviewed by the Board
monthly and the Chief Executive Officer has
responsibility for monitoring these risks and
reports back on a regular basis.  A rolling forecast
of the anticipated financial results for the year is
included in the monthly management accounts,
which are reviewed by the Board.
Improvements will continue to be made to
embed internal control and risk management
further into the operations of the business and to
deal with areas of improvement, which come to
management and the Board's attention.
17
Corporate Governance 18
Executive Management Board
The Chief Executive Officer manages the day-to-
day operational performance and risk areas
within the business with the assistance of the
Executive Management Board which comprises:
Philip Thorpe - Group Technical Director
Jeff May - Group Sales & Marketing
Director
Gary Burnett - Chief Financial Officer
Fred White - Group Company Secretary
Going Concern
Having taken into account the Group's current
cash position, its cash flow projections and the
current banking facilities available to it, the
Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to
produce the financial statements on a going
concern basis.
Corporate Governance