 TEPNEL LIFE SCIENCES PLC   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
12
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate governance, in general
terms, is the way in which a company
is controlled and directed and, in
particular, is concerned with the role of
the Board of Directors, how the Board
and committees of the Board operate,
and accountability within a company.
The Group's shares are listed on the Alternative
Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is subject to the AIM Rules of the London
Stock Exchange and is consequently not required to
comply with best practice corporate governance
provisions contained within Section 1 of the revised
Combined Code (July 2003) (Combined Code )
appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. However, the Directors believe good corporate
governance is essential. Having considered the
provisions of the Combined Code, the Directors set out
below the principles of the Combined Code that the
Group has adopted and how the Group has applied
these principles. The current size of the Group means
that full compliance with the provisions of the Combined
Code is not practical or cost effective. However, in areas
where the Board of Directors believe that the provisions
set out in the Combined Code are paramount to good
corporate governance, procedures for compliance have
been established.
The Board
As at 31 December 2006, the Board comprised four 
Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director, the
Chief Executive Officer, following the resignation of the
former Group Finance Director following settlement of his
unfair dismissal claim. The Executive Director and the
Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of business
experience and expertise to the Board's discussions and
decision making. The Board of Directors has put in place
an organisational structure with clearly defined
responsibilities and delegation of authority. Biographical
details of all the Directors are set out on the Company's
website, www.tepnel.com.
The Board considers that two of the Non-Executives are
independent of management (Mr M Miller and 
Mr A Clark).  Two of the Non-Executive Directors provide
consultancy services relating to corporate development
for which they are rewarded on a time spent basis. 
Mr I A Craig, the Non-Executive Chairman, is a Senior
Partner at Halliwells LLP Solicitors, which provides legal
services to the Group. Mr D R Marvin provided
consultancy services to the Group through Cairn
Associates during the year. The Executive Director relies
upon the advice tendered by the Non-Executive Directors,
particularly in connection with technical and legal issues.
The full Board meets formally at least six times each year to
consider all matters of significance for the Group as they
arise, as well as matters reserved specifically for their
consideration. These matters include development of
business strategy and policy, the review and approval of
operating budgets and monitoring of business performance
against objectives, the approval of significant financing and
capital expenditure programmes, the approval of business
alliances and acquisitions and disposals, the approval of
interim and annual financial statements and consideration of
matters relating to internal control. The Board is supplied in
a timely manner with all relevant information to assist it in the
discharge of its duties.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services
of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied
with. There is a formal procedure for Directors to obtain
independent professional advice in the furtherance of
their duties should that be necessary, the cost of which
would be met by the Group.
To facilitate the effective running of each individual
business unit, the Board of Directors has put in place an
organisational structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. Senior
management meet monthly to monitor and discuss all
major issues affecting the Company which do not require
Board discussion or approval by other Board Committees.
The Company does not presently have a Nomination
Committee, as it is not believed to be appropriate given
the Group's present size. The Board continues to keep this
decision under review. It is the Company's policy to
appoint Non-Executive Directors for specified terms
(normally three years), subject to re-election. All Directors
are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their initial appointment, and to re-
election thereafter in accordance with the articles of
association. 13
TEPNEL LIFE SCIENCES PLC   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that its
policies on remuneration are such that the Group is able to
attract and retain high calibre executives, and that those
executives are rewarded in a way consistent with the
interests of shareholders. Remuneration and incentive
packages are awarded according to the individual's
performance, experience and responsibility.
The Remuneration Committee comprises four Non-
Executive Directors and is chaired by Mr M Miller. The
Executive Director attends meetings of the Committee by
invitation. The Committee meets at least annually and is
responsible for making recommendations to the Board on
the remuneration policy of the Executive Director and
senior staff, and for determining salaries, incentive
payments and longer term incentives in the form of share
options. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors
is set by the Executive Director ensuring that no Director is
responsible for the determination of their own
remuneration.
In determining the level of remuneration, individual
performance and competitiveness within the sector is
considered when setting or reviewing the remuneration
package of the Executive Director. Details of Directors
emoluments are disclosed at Note 6 to the financial
statements.
Accountability and Audit
All the Directors are equally accountable under law for the
proper stewardship of the Group's affairs. The Board acts
in a way which allows all Directors to bring their
independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy,
performance, resources, including key appointments and
standards of conduct.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the four Non-Executive
Directors, is chaired by Mr D Marvin and meets at least 3
times a year.
It has primary responsibility for ensuring that the financial
performance of the Group is properly measured and
reported on. The Audit Committee is also responsible for
reporting on and reviewing reports from the Group's
auditors relating to the Group's accounting controls. The
Committee monitors the scope, results and cost
effectiveness of the audit.
Internal Control
The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the
Group maintains an adequate system of risk management
and internal control. Due to the relatively small size of the
Group, the processes it has employed to identify, evaluate
and manage significant business risk have been informal,
and have depended upon the close involvement of senior
management, including the Executive Director in all
aspects of the Group's operations.
The Group maintains an adequate system of risk
management and internal control, and an internal control
environment which, in the opinion of the Directors, is
appropriate for the Group's size and complexity. These
controls include a budgeting system with an annual
operating budget approved by the Board of Directors, a
comprehensive financial reporting system, comparing
actual results to budget (with variations from budget being
thoroughly investigated with corrective action taken by the
Directors as appropriate), the provision of monthly
management accounts, annual budgets and forecasts, and
operational limits on the delegation of financial authority.
Full management accounts are normally issued within ten
working days following the month-end. Full financial
forecast updates are produced bi-annually and the Group
reports to shareholders bi-annually. 
The Group does not currently have an internal audit
function. The Board believes that this is appropriate given
the current size of the Group.
With the adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards in 2007, the Board is in the process of
implementing its plan to address IFRS and ensure full
compliance during the year ending 31 December 2007.
The Group is on target to deliver its 2007 interim results
under IFRS.
Relations with Shareholders
The Group seeks to maintain and enhance its good
relations with its shareholders. This is achieved through
the provision of interim and annual reports; through
meeting with shareholders and presentations to them in
general meetings and after major Company
announcements; by responses to individual enquires; and
through the Company's website, www.tepnel.com. The
Annual General Meeting is the primary opportunity to meet
individual shareholders, to make presentations to them, to
encourage their participation through questions and to talk
informally to them after the formal proceedings. Separate
resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting
on each substantially separate issue. The Board is always
ready, where practicable, to enter into dialogue with
institutional and individual shareholders based on the
mutual understanding of objectives.