 The Company recognises the importance of and is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the shareholders for
good corporate governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance
with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Statement by the Directors on the provisions of the Combined Code
The Company has complied throughout the period with the provisions set out in the Combined Code with the following exceptions:
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Human Resources Director and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
The Code recommends that there should be a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and that a Nomination Committee, 
on which the majority of its sitting members should be Non-Executive Directors, should make recommendations to the main Board. The Company has adopted 
the view that the Committee's composition should more correctly reflect the need for members who are actively involved in the management of the business
and are therefore aware of the specific skills required by any nominee. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director as an active participant brings his
independent judgement to the nomination process.
The Board composition did not reflect the Code throughout the whole of the year in that, following the resignations of Mrs F M Harrison and 
Mrs A M C Avis, for reasons of ill-health and conflict of interest respectively, and Mr M S Thornton's retirement as a Non-Executive Director, less than one-third 
of the Directors were Non-Executive. The Company is actively seeking replacement Non-Executive Directors. 
Due to the composition of the Board, during the year the Audit Committee did not comprise three Non-Executive Directors as required by provision 
D.3.1 of the Code.
The workings of the Board and its Committees
The Company is headed by a Board of Directors, comprising seven Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director; both the Chairman and Chief Executive
are Executive Directors and have clearly defined roles and responsibilities. The Chairman retains responsibility for the running of the Board, including but not
limited to ensuring that a fixed schedule of matters is exclusively retained for the Board's review and approval, and that a framework exists to allow the clear
dissemination of relevant and timely information to all Directors for such discussion to occur. The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management
of the Company, for which he and all Executive Directors fulfilling operational roles report to the Board. 
The Board meets not less than nine times per financial year. It reviews regularly the operational performance and plans of the Company and, as necessary,
determines the Company's current and proposed strategy. The Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, also meet under the chairmanship of the Chief
Executive on a weekly basis to discuss operational matters. All Board members receive agendas and papers prior to each Board meeting. All Directors have
access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules 
and regulations are adhered to; Directors may also obtain further information from any manager or employee of the Company. All Directors are further 
entitled to obtain independent advice from external advisors, consultants or any such further professional individual or entity.
There are three Board Committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. The first two are chaired by an independent Non-Executive
Director with no personal financial interest, other than as a minor shareholder, in the Committees' decisions. Each Committee has specific terms of reference.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which was chaired by Mr J E Jackson during the financial year, meets not less than twice annually with the external auditors and 
considers any issues which are identified during the course of their audit work. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chairman, Chief Executive,
Finance Director and Financial Controller. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the interim and annual financial
statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring the integrity of the information reported to shareholders. The Committee advises the Board on
the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the scope and results of the audit with the
external auditors; it also reviews the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and receives reports and recommendations from
the Company's Internal Audit function.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was chaired during the financial year by Mrs F M Harrison, until her resignation as a Director in November 2002, and
subsequently by Mr J E Jackson. It has the responsibility for Directors' remuneration and is responsible to the Board. A report on Directors' remuneration 
is set out on pages 16 to 19. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Human Resources Director and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Its composition has been chosen so as to ensure that the credentials of each and every potential Director are reviewed by all appropriately responsible 
Directors before such nominee is proposed to the Board.
Corporate governance
13 Thorntons PLC Internal controls
The Company's control environment is the responsibility of the Company's Directors and managers at all levels. The Board is therefore responsible for
establishing and maintaining the Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Although no control system can provide absolute
protection against material misstatement or loss, it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide
the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems should be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal control for the period. Due to the size of the Company, the Executive
Directors are able to monitor performance, evaluate and manage on a continual basis the risks faced by the Company. The key procedures that have been
established to provide effective internal control include:
  a formalised reporting structure which includes the setting of detailed annual budgets and key performance indicators which are updated on a regular basis
to form forecasts which are reviewed at both management and Board meetings;
  regular Board meetings are held at which all key aspects of the business are discussed including comparison of actual performance compared with budgets;
  weekly review of operational performance and operational matters by the Executive Directors;
  meetings are held by each Executive Director on a weekly and monthly basis to review the progress of specific financial and non-financial responsibilities
within their functions;
  the control, review, and monitoring of key business projects by specific steering committees each headed by an Executive Director who sponsors the project;
  defined authorisation levels for capital expenditure;
  defined authorisation levels for the placing of orders and contracts;
  daily cash movements are reconciled and monitored by the Treasury Department and the Company's cash flow is monitored monthly in comparison to budget
and forecast;
  the Company's reporting systems provide weekly updates on key statistics including sales, production and gross margin analysis;
  a committee comprising Executive Directors meets to identify and review key business risks and then implement appropriate procedures to address those risks.
A review of the committee's work is included in the Board's agenda;
  major commercial, technological and financial risks are assessed by the Board throughout each financial year and considered as part of the Company's
business strategy. The conclusions are then incorporated in the Company's business strategy and adopted by the Board.
The Board reviews management reports prepared by the external auditors and considers the suitability of suggested improvements to the system of 
internal controls.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chief Executive's report and Finance Director's report, commencing on pages 4 and 8
respectively, include a detailed review of the business and future developments. Following the announcement of the Company's interim and final 
results, the Directors, represented by at least the Chief Executive and Finance Director, make full business presentations to its institutional shareholders; 
such shareholders are given further updates at other appropriate times during the year, including visits to the manufacturing facility. 
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The Directors present at each AGM a
business review and preview to all attending shareholders who may ask any questions they wish. It is not a requirement that these be previously submitted to
the Company in writing. Furthermore, at each AGM, the Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is available.
The revised Combined Code
In January 2003 the  Review of the Role and effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors (the  Higgs Report') was published. This was reviewed by the Board and 
an assessment of the Board's compliance with its recommendations made. The Combined Code was recently revised in the light of recommendations from the
Higgs and Smith Reports ( Audit Committees: Combined Code Guidance') for financial years commencing on or after 1 November 2003 and the Company is
committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in accord with the spirit and provisions of the revised Code.
Going concern
The directors are satisfied, on the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, that the Company and the Group have adequate financial
resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Finally, we have a website, www.thorntons.co.uk/investor, which allows shareholders to view Company results and announcements and other relevant
information, and also to raise questions to put back to the Company.
Corporate governance continued
14 Thorntons PLC Annual report and accounts 2003