 The Company recognises the importance of and is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good
corporate governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Statement by the Directors on the provisions of the Combined Code
The Company has complied throughout the period with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exceptions:
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Human Resources Director and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
The Code recommends that there should be a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and that a Nomination Committee, on
which the majority of its sitting members should be Non-Executive Directors, should make recommendations to the main Board. The Company has adopted the
view that the Committee's composition should more correctly reflect the need for members who are actively involved in the management of the business and 
are therefore aware of the specific skills required by any nominee. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director as an active participant brings his independent
judgement to the nomination process.
The workings of the Board and its Committees
The Company is headed by a Board of Directors, comprising six Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors; both the Chairman and Chief Executive are
Executive Directors and have clearly defined roles and responsibilities. The Chairman retains responsibility for the running of the Board, including but not limited 
to ensuring that a fixed schedule of matters is exclusively retained for the Board's review and approval, and that a framework exists to allow the clear dissemination
of relevant and timely information to all Directors for such discussion to occur. The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the Company,
for which he and all Executive Directors fulfilling operational roles report to the Board. 
The Board meets not less than nine times per financial year. It reviews regularly the operational performance and plans of the Company and, as necessary,
determines the Company's current and proposed strategy. The Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, also meet under the chairmanship of the Chief
Executive on a weekly basis to discuss operational matters. All Board members receive agendas and papers prior to each Board meeting. All Directors have 
access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and
regulations are adhered to; Directors may also obtain further information from any manager or employee of the Company. All Directors are further entitled to
obtain independent advice from external advisors, consultants or any such further professional individual or entity.
There are three Board Committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. The first two are chaired by Non-Executive Directors, both of
whom are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than as minor shareholders, in the Committees' decisions, and are composed solely of 
Non-Executive Directors. Each Committee has specific terms of reference.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, was chaired by Mrs P S Czyzak-Dannenbaum during the financial year and meets 
not less than twice annually with the external auditors and considers any issues which are identified during the course of their audit work. Meetings are also
attended, by invitation, by the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Financial Controller. Following the retirement of Mrs P S Czyzak-Dannenbaum 
as a Non-Executive Director of the Company Mr J E Jackson now chairs the Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the interim and annual financial statements before their submission to 
the Board and monitoring the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors
and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the scope and results of the audit with the external auditors; it also reviews the 
cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and receives reports and recommendations from the Company's Internal Audit function.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr J E Jackson during the financial year, and comprises independent Non-Executive Directors. It has the responsibility
for Directors' remuneration and is responsible to the Board. A report on Directors' remuneration is set out on pages 20 to 23. The Committee is now chaired by 
Mrs F M Harrison.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Human Resources Director and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Its composition has been chosen so as to ensure that the credentials of each and every potential Director are reviewed by all appropriately responsible 
Directors before such nominee is proposed to the Board.
Corporate governance
17 Thorntons PLC Internal controls
The Company's control environment is the responsibility of the Company's Directors and managers at all levels. The Board is therefore responsible for establishing
and maintaining the Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Although no control system can provide absolute protection against
material misstatement or loss, it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide the Directors with
reasonable assurance that problems should be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal control for the period. Due to the size of the Company, the Executive Directors
are able to monitor performance, evaluate and manage on a continual basis the risks faced by the Company. The key procedures that have been established to
provide effective internal control include:
  a formalised reporting structure which includes the setting of detailed annual budgets and key performance indicators which are updated on a regular basis 
to form forecasts which are reviewed at both management and Board meetings;
  regular Board meetings are held at which all key aspects of the business are discussed including comparison of actual performance compared with budgets;
  weekly review of operational performance and operational matters by the Executive Directors;
  meetings are held by each Executive Director on a weekly and monthly basis to review the progress of specific financial and non-financial responsibilities within
their functions;
  the control, review, and monitoring of key business projects by specific steering committees each headed by an Executive Director who sponsors the project;
  defined authorisation levels for capital expenditure;
  defined authorisation levels for the placing of orders and contracts;
  daily cash movements are reconciled and monitored by the Treasury Department and the Company's cash flow is monitored monthly in comparison to budget
and forecast;
  the Company's reporting systems provide weekly updates on key statistics including sales, production and gross margin analysis;
  a committee comprising Executive Directors meets to identify and review key business risks and then implement appropriate procedures to address those risks;
The Board reviews management reports prepared by the external auditors and considers the suitability of suggested improvements to the system of internal controls.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chief Executive's business overview and Finance Director's review, commencing on page 2 
and page 12, include a detailed review of the business and future developments. Following the announcement of the Company's interim and final results, 
the Directors, represented by at least the Chief Executive and Finance Director, make full business presentations to its institutional shareholders; such shareholders 
are given further updates at other appropriate times during the year, including visits to the manufacturing facility. 
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The Directors present at each AGM 
a business review and preview to all attending shareholders who may ask any questions they wish. It is not a requirement that these be previously submitted 
to the Company in writing. Furthermore, at each AGM, the Chairman aims to ensure that the chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are available.
Finally, we have a website, www.thorntons.co.uk/results, which allows shareholders to put questions to the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors. 
The answers provided will be visible to all visitors to the site.
Corporate governance continued
18 Thorntons PLC Annual report and accounts 2002