 Corporate Governance:
Corporate Governance Report
The Board sets the policy to be followed by the Group and continues to be committed 
to high standards of corporate governance. The Group has complied with the 
requirements of the Combined Code in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 
2008 except that the Senior Independent Non-executive Director has not during the 
year attended, in accordance with the Combined Code (provision D.1.1), meetings 
with a range of major shareholders of the Group as explained in the section headed 
 Relations with shareholders' on page 30.
Board of Directors
The separation of the roles of the Non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive 
ensures that there is a well established division of authority and responsibility at the 
most senior level within the Group. The Chairman leads the Board in the determination 
of its strategy and achievement of its objectives. The Chief Executive has direct charge 
of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. The division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board. 
During the year, the Board comprised a Non-executive Chairman, three Executive 
Directors and four Non-executive Directors until the resignation, with effect from 25 June 
2007 , of Martin Beesley as a non-independent Non-executive Director in accordance 
with the terms of the Relationship agreement between the Company and United Utilities 
plc following the disposal by United Utilities of its shareholding in the Company.  
The Board then comprised three Non-executive Directors (all of whom were considered 
to be independent by the Board) in addition to the Chairman and the three Executive 
Directors. Alison Wood was then appointed to the Board as an independent  
Non-executive Director with effect from 1 November 2007 and Jo Connell retired  
from the Board as an independent Non-executive Director, her resignation from the 
Board being effective from 31 December 2007 .
The Non-executive Directors are from varied business and other backgrounds. 
Biographies of all the Directors are set out on pages 26 and 27 , including details of 
professional and business commitments of a significant nature. Induction is provided 
for all new Directors which is tailored to their specific requirements and includes 
meetings with senior management, site visits to business locations and provision of 
key documentation and information. Continuing development is provided through 
presentations and briefing materials in relation to the Group in the course of regular 
Board and Committee meetings and also by external sources such as attendance by 
Directors at seminars conducted by the Company's professional advisors and other 
recognised bodies.
The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent and free 
from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement.
All of the Non-executive Directors have held office throughout the year, with the 
exception of Martin Beesley who resigned from the Board on 25 June 2007 ,  
Jo Connell who resigned from the Board on 31 December 2007 and Alison Wood 
who was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2007 . Executive Directors normally 
retire at age 63 in terms of their service contracts. Non-executive Directors are 
appointed for a specified term of three years which may be renewed. The Group 
maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Ian Chippendale has been identified as the Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director who is available to shareholders for concerns not resolved through the existing 
mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors must stand for election by the shareholders at the first AGM following their 
appointment. All Directors also retire by rotation such that approximately one-third of 
the Board retires and seeks re-election each year. Each Director must retire and seek 
re-election at least every three years. At the forthcoming AGM to be held on 31 July 
2008, Alison Wood offers herself for election and Philip Rogerson and John Maguire 
will retire as Directors and offer themselves for re-election to the Board. Following 
evaluation of the performance of each of those Directors, it is confirmed that each 
individual performs effectively in the role and demonstrates commitment to the role. 
Their continued appointment as Board members is therefore recommended by  
the Board. 
Details of Directors' remuneration together with the Group's remuneration policy and  
the principles under which these have been formulated and applied are described in 
the Directors' Remuneration Report as set out on pages 32 to 36.
Control of the Group is through the Board of Directors. The Board's main roles are to 
promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members, create shareholder 
value, provide leadership of the Group, approve the Group's strategic objectives and 
promote the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all of the Group's business 
activities.
The Board met ten times during the year and has a schedule of matters concerning 
key aspects of the Group's activities which are specifically referred to it for its collective 
decision. The matters reserved to the Board for decision include the approval of the 
Annual Report and any other Financial Statements, the long-term objectives of the 
Group and the strategy necessary to achieve these objectives, the Group's budgets 
and plans, significant capital expenditure and allocation of resources, significant 
investments and disposals, the arrangements for ensuring the Group manages risks 
effectively, any significant change in accounting policies and the appointment of the 
Company's main professional advisors.
The types of decision delegated to the Chief Executive relate principally to 
implementation of the business plan and annual budget, competitive positioning  
and relationships with employees, customers and suppliers.
The Board evaluates its performance and that of its Committees and individual 
Directors. The process adopted in respect of the Board is by means of a Board review 
of responses to a questionnaire, completed by each Director, which encourages the 
Directors to draw on their experience to endeavour to ensure that the Group follows 
best practice and to suggest how the Group's procedures may be improved.  
The Committees also assess their respective terms of reference and effectiveness and 
report the conclusions to the Board, with recommendations for change if necessary. 
The Chairman has a private discussion at least once a year with each Director on a 
range of issues affecting the Group, including an evaluation of the performance of  
the Director and any matters which the Director wishes, individually, to raise.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews the performance of the Chief Executive  
and the other Executive Directors when considering their remuneration arrangements. 
The Chairman's performance is evaluated by the Non-executive Directors at an annual 
meeting, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, taking account of the 
views of the Executive Directors.
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its main Committees 
during the year, and the attendance of individual Directors. 
  Audit  Nomination Remuneration
 Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings during the year 10 5 2 4
Current Directors 
Philip Rogerson 10  2 
William Allan 10  2 
Ian Chippendale 9 4 2 4
Philip Male 10   
John Maguire 10   
Rick Medlock 10 5 2 4
Alison Wood
1
 4 1 1 1
Former Directors
Jo Connell
 2
 7 4 1 2
Martin Beesley
 3
 2 
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2007 and to the Audit Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination Committee on 16 November 2007 .
2 Resigned from the Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee 
on 31 December 2007 .
3 Resigned from the Board on 25 June 2007 .
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief 
Operating Officer attended certain meetings of the Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee during the year at the invitation of the Chairman of those Committees.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is 
responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are observed. Any Director wishing 
to do so, in furtherance of his duties, may take independent professional advice at the 
Group's expense.
Board Committees
The Board has three principal standing committees: the Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The composition, purpose and function of 
each of these committees are described below. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprised three independent Non-executive Directors except 
during the brief period between the appointment to the Committee on 16 November 
2007 of Alison Wood and the resignation of Jo Connell from the Committee on  
31 December 2007 when it comprised four independent Non-executive Directors.  
The Committee is chaired by Rick Medlock and has written terms of reference.  
It met five times in the year to review the annual and interim accounts, review the 
appropriateness of accounting policies, review internal controls and financial reporting, 
and made recommendations to the Board. It also considers the appointment and fees 
of the external auditors, the appointment of the director of Risk Management (as Head 
of Internal Audit) and reviews the risk management framework, the internal audit plan 
and resulting reports and the Group's whistle-blowing policy. The Audit Committee 
discusses the action taken on specific areas identified by Board members or in the 
internal and external audit reports. The Committee reviews its terms of reference 
and effectiveness annually and reports its conclusions to the Board, including any 
recommendations for change.
The Committee has also established a policy on the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditors which requires the Committee to approve in advance the provision 
of certain kinds of those services within defined parameters. The key principles which 
underpin the policy and which are designed to minimise the risk of conflict of interest 
<
29
THUS Group plc Annual Report 2008