 Corporate Governance Report
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and the
statements set out in this report describe how the principles identified in the Code are applied by the
Company. Titon's business approach is based on openness and high levels of accountability and there is
a commitment to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. With an international
presence, the Group acts in accordance with the national laws of the various countries in which it operates
and encourages the highest standards of business practice and procedure.
As part of this commitment to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, the Board applies, where they are
deemed appropriate, the principles of corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code as issued
by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in September 2012. The Code can be found on the FRC website
(www.frc.org.uk). Further explanation of how both the main provisions and the supporting provisions have been applied
is set out below. The Directors confirm that the Group was compliant with all relevant provisions of Sections A to E of
the Code throughout the accounting period and up to the date of the Directors' Report except in the following areas:
  The Company has five Executive Directors and one Non-executive Director and therefore does not comply with
paragraph B.1.2 of the Code in respect of the Board comprising at least two independent Non-executive
Directors. The Non-executive Director is not deemed to be independent under the provisions of paragraph B.1.1
of the Code as he is a significant shareholder and a previous chairman of the Company. However, the Executive
Directors consider that the Non-executive Director is of sufficient character and independence to challenge the
opinions of the Executive Directors whilst, at the same time, providing a valuable contribution to the strategic
direction of the Company. The Directors consider that failure to comply with the Code in this respect poses no
significant additional risk for shareholders and has no plans to comply with these provisions in the short term.
  The Non-executive Director has not met during the year to appraise the Chairman's performance and therefore
the Company does not comply with Paragraph B.6.3 or part of paragraph A.4.2. The Non-executive Director
feels that in respect of this matter a formal process is unnecessary due to the very high frequency of informal
meetings held during the year. The Directors consider that failure to comply with the Code in this respect poses
no significant additional risk for shareholders and has no plans to comply with this provision in the short term.
  The Company has not appointed a senior independent director and therefore the Company does not comply with
part of paragraphs A.4.1 and E.1.1 of the Code. The Directors do not consider this is to be necessary in a company
of this size and complexity. The Directors consider that failure to comply with the Code in this respect poses no
significant additional risk for shareholders and has no plans to comply with this provision in the short term.
  The Company does not have a nomination committee and therefore does not comply with paragraphs B.2.1,
B.2.2 and B.2.4. The Directors feel that the nomination and appointment of Directors can be adequately carried
out by the Board as a whole. The Directors consider that failure to comply with the Code in this respect poses
no significant additional risk for shareholders and has no plans to comply with this provision in the short term.
  The Company's Non-executive Director has served more than nine years on the Board. The Board does not
intend to submit this Director for annual re-election by shareholders and therefore the Company does not comply
with paragraph B.2.3 and B.7.1. The Directors consider that failure to comply with the Code in this respect poses
no significant additional risk for shareholders and has no plans to comply with the provision in the short term. 
  The Company's Audit Committee is currently comprised of the Chairman and the Chief Executive and therefore
the Company does not comply with paragraph C.3.1. The Directors consider that this present structure is
appropriate for a company of this size and complexity. The Directors consider that failure to comply with the Code
in this respect poses no significant additional risk for shareholders and has no plans to comply with the provision
in the short term.
  The Company's Remuneration Committee does not consist exclusively of non-executive Directors and therefore
does not comply with paragraph D.2.1. The Directors consider that the current structure of the Committee is
more appropriate for assessing individual Directors' contribution and remuneration. The Directors consider that
failure to comply with the Code in this respect poses no significant additional risk for shareholders and has no
plans to comply with the provision in the short term.
20
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 21
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
Composition and operation of the Board of Directors
As at 30 September 2013 the Board consisted of the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other Executive
Directors and one Non-executive Director.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision including major capital expenditure
decisions, business acquisitions and disposals and the setting of treasury policy. This also includes matters such as
material financial commitments, commencing or settling major litigation and appointments to main and subsidiary
company boards.
Scheduled Board meetings take place on a quarterly basis with further adhoc meetings arranged as necessary. 
To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is
given to all relevant information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists of comprehensive management
reporting information and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Company's
expense. This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the Company Secretary. The Secretary is
charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When new members are appointed to the Board, they are provided with advice from the Company Secretary in
respect of their role and duties as a public company director. Furthermore, all Directors have ongoing access to the
Company Secretary for advice during the course of their appointment.
Appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Code, to retire and seek election by the
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The Articles of Association also require that one third of the Directors
retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors required to retire are
those in office longest since their previous re-election and in practice this means that each Director retires at least
every three years, in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The Directors who retire by rotation are Mr Tyson Neil Anderson and Mr Christopher Stuart Jarvis. Both Directors,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
  Tyson Anderson, aged 45, has been with the Company since 1993 and was elected to the Board of the main
operating subsidiary, Titon Hardware Limited, in 1999. Tyson joined the main Board on 1 January 2004 as
Marketing Director, was appointed Sales & Marketing Director on 1 February 2007 and has a service contract
which expires on 31 July 2014.
  Chris Jarvis, aged 63, has been with the Company since its incorporation in 1972. Chris was appointed a Director
in October 1974 and Export Director in 1982. He has a service contract which expires on 31 July 2014.
A statement of Directors' interests and copies of their service contracts are available for inspection during usual
business hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday (excluding public holidays), and will be
available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The individual attendance by Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors at the Board and principal Board
Committee Meetings held during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Main  Remuneration Audit
Board Committee Committee
Total meetings held 52 1
K A Ritchie 52 1
D A Ruffell 5- 1
T N Anderson 5- -
N C Howlett 5- -
C S Jarvis 4- -
J N Anderson 52 -
P W E Fitt - resigned 1 February 2013 21 -
P E O'Sullivan - resigned 1 February 2013 2- - 22
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
The Remuneration Committee Report is set out on pages 15 to 18. The  Remuneration Committee terms of reference,
established by the Board, are to: 
  Determine and to keep under review the Group's policy on remuneration.
  Determine the basic salaries and non-cash emoluments payable to all Executive Directors, including Executive
Directors of subsidiary group companies, giving due consideration to individual responsibility and performance and
to salaries paid to Executive Directors of similar companies in comparable business sectors. 
  Select the performance conditions relating to the Group's Share Option Schemes. Such performance conditions
to be aimed to align Directors' interests to shareholder value.
  Make recommendations to the Board of Directors on other matters relating to remuneration in the Group.
  Prepare an annual report on remuneration to the Company's shareholders for approval by the Board for
submission to a vote of shareholders at the Company's Annual General Meeting and to advise the Board if it
believes that, in any year, there are particular matters relating to remuneration which should be put to the
Company's shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee
The Board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders. The Strategic Report on pages 5 to 8
gives a detailed review of the business, and there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders at the time of the
Group's preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Group's results and other announcements are published to the London Stock Exchange RNS service and on the
Company's website.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes
their participation.
The Corporate Governance Report was approved by the Board on 19 December 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
KA Ritchie
Chairman
Communications with shareholders
Corporate Governance Report (continued)