 23
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on matters concerning the Group's internal financial controls,
financial reporting and risk management systems, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers
that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board for a period of three years and comprises Mr K A Ritchie and Mr D A Ruffell,
both of whom have financial experience and are qualified Accountants.
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee operates within defined terms of reference and its mains functions are:
  To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems on which the Group is reliant.
  To consider whether there is a need for the Group to have its own internal audit function.
  To monitor the integrity of the Group's financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Group's
financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
  To review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters
of financial reporting or any other matter.
  To meet the independent Auditor of the Group to review their proposed audit programme of work and the
subsequent Audit Report and to assess the effectiveness of the audit process and the levels of fees paid in
respect of both audit and non-audit work.
  To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Auditor,
and to negotiate their remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work.
  To monitor and review annually the external Auditor's independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and
qualification.
Review of Financial Statements and Risks identified
Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced and understandable. The Audit Committee reviews the
Annual Report as a whole and makes recommendations to the Board. The Committee is aware that several sections of the Annual
Accounts are not subject to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report. Financial information in these sections is
reviewed by the Committee, and subject to a review by the Auditors.
The Company's half-yearly report is approved by the Audit Committee prior to publication. The quarterly Interim Management
Statements are also reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to their publication.
The Audit Committee assesses annually whether it is appropriate to prepare the Group's financial statements on a going concern
basis, and makes its recommendation to the Board. The Board's conclusions are set out in the Report of the Directors.
In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, the Audit Committee takes account of the most significant
issues and risks, both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Company's financial statements.
The Committee considers that revenue recognition is a significant area of risk to accurate financial reporting and ensures that
necessary credit note provisions and business rebate provisions are made. In relation to activities in Korea, revenues are only
recognised once the customer has accepted the successful inclusion of our products into buildings rather than the delivery of product
from our factory.
The carrying value of the Group's assets is an area where the committee places great emphasis. In particular, calculating the carrying
value for the Company's inventory is a significant risk factor as the Company has a wide range of product lines that fluctuate regularly
in terms of their sales volumes. Consequently, every product line is assessed at the year end to ensure that adequate provisions for
obsolescence are made.
A further significant risk considered by the Committee is the Group's investment in its Korean business and in particular the
accuracy of accounting information. The Committee considers that regular trips to Korea by senior management combined with
the detailed monthly reporting process that are in place are sufficient to support this process.
Internal Audit
The Board believes that due to the size of the business there is currently no requirement for an Internal Audit function. This matter
is reviewed annually. 24
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
Audit Committee Report (continued)
Internal Control
The respective responsibilities of the Directors in connection with the financial statements are set out on pages 11 and 12, and
those of the Auditors are detailed in the Independent Auditors' Report on page 28. 
The Group's Associate Company is excluded from these disclosures in respect of internal controls.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that suitable internal controls systems to prevent and detect fraud and
error are designed and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of such controls. The Board confirms that there
is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group in line with the
Financial Reporting Council's Internal Control: Guidance to Directors (the Turnbull guidance) and the FRC's Guidance on
Audit Committees published in September 2012. This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the
date of approval of this report, and accords with the guidance. In particular, the Committee has reviewed and updated
the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Group and policies by which these risks are
managed. The risks of any failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix which is regularly reviewed by the Board
and which identifies the likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise the
probability of such risks occurring.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Group's particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed. They do not
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against mis-statement or loss. The following are the key components which the Group has in place to provide
effective internal control:
  An appropriate control environment through the definition of the organisation structure and authority levels.
  The identification of the major business risks facing the Group and the development of appropriate procedures
and controls to manage these risks.
  A comprehensive budgeting and reporting system with monthly results compared with budgets and with
previous years.
  The principal aspects of the Group's internal control processes used in preparing the Group's consolidated
accounts include second reviews of consolidation workings and Board review of the composition of the Group's
financial information.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control by reviewing the procedures
noted above and are satisfied that it is appropriate to the size of the business.
The Company has a shareholding in an associate company. Controls within this entity may not be reviewed as part of
the Company's formal processes due to the local delegation of managerial responsibilities, but instead are reviewed
as part of the normal management process. 
External Audit process
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor. The Auditor provides a planning report in advance
of the annual audit and a report on the annual audit. The Committee has an opportunity to question and challenge the
Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness.
Auditor assessment and independence
The Group's external Auditor is BDO LLP , who has been the Group's auditor since 2006. During 2013 the Audit
Committee conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor, and the related fees, and concluded that
there was no need, at this stage, to conduct a competitive tender. However, the Committee is mindful of the latest
Corporate Governance provisions relating to auditor tenure, and will keep this matter under consideration even though
it does not apply to smaller companies.
The Committee also reviewed BDO's independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered that those policies and procedures remained fit for purpose. The fees for audit services for the year
were  50,000 (2012:  47,000). 25
Titon Holdings Plc 2013 Annual Report & Accounts
The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit
services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board and does not believe there to
be any impediment to the Auditor's objectivity and independence. All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor
must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.   The cost of non-audit services provided by the Auditor for
the financial year ended 30 September 2013 was  9,000 (2012:  11,000). This comprised  7,000 in relation to tax
compliance and  2,000 in relation to other services. These non-audit services are assurance related, and the
Committee believes BDO are best placed to provide them on a cost effective basis. The fees for non-audit services
are considered not material in the context of the accounts as a whole.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that BDO remains independent. The Committee confirms that the non-audit work
undertaken by the Company's Auditor satisfies and does not compromise the tests of the Auditor's independence,
objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification. The costs of these services are considered by the Committee to
be proportionate in relation to the fees for audit services.
K A Ritchie
Audit Committee Chairman
19 December 2013