 38
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
manager and above. This change was proposed by the
CSR Committee of the Board in order to ensure that this
critical element of our management procedures receives
the prominence it deserves.
Our workplace: health and safety
The health and safety of our employees and those people
and communities who are affected by our operations is of
utmost importance to us. Tomkins' companies conduct
business in many countries around the world. HSE
requirements vary greatly in these countries and many do
not provide the level of protection for employees that
Tomkins has established for its operations. In order to
achieve the same high safety standards throughout the
Group, regardless of the type of operation or its location,
we implement our Global Minimum HSE Standards which
must be complied with, in addition to any local regulatory
requirements.
In 2009, our accident rate (number of reportable
incidents per 100 workers) was 1.97 (2008: 2.72) and
our severity rate (average number of lost workdays per
100 employees) was 8.62 (2008: 15.91), representing a
27.7% and a 45.8% reduction respectively versus 2008.
These achievements place us well above average when
compared to the performance of the US manufacturing
sector and demonstrate our commitment to safety
excellence. We are pleased to have achieved these
reductions against a background of considerable change.
During the second year of our health and wellness
programme we launched the Tomkins Global Fitness
Challenge. The aim of the initiative was to improve the
wellness level of employees, increase productivity and
promote loyalty and collaboration worldwide. The goal
for the challenge was to travel the total distance around
the world, with participants tracking their fitness activities
on a customised multi-language website. The site also
contained information on healthy living and a bulletin
board to share success stories. With over 2,000 participants,
we quickly achieved our initial goal and so set and
reached a new target of travelling the distance to the
moon and back.
Our workplace: employees
In the workplace, our aim is to be an employer of choice.
We believe there is a strong correlation between effective
people practices and business success.
At a Group level, we use formalised succession planning,
management internships and competitive compensation
schemes that align the interests of our managers with
those of our shareholders. Specific management training
is provided through Tomkins College, the Group's
executive development programme.
Individual facilities pursue their own customised employee
training programme, covering a variety of issues from
safety, security awareness, lean manufacturing, waste
handling, through to disease prevention and communication
and language training.
Introduction
The past year has witnessed significant economic,
financial and business turmoil. Tomkins' response to the
downturn in its markets has been to implement wide-
reaching restructuring projects, involving the closure of
25 facilities and a reduction in headcount of 4,300.
Despite this, we have remained focused on CSR as an
integral part of our everyday business practices and one
of the drivers of our success. We believe that excellence
in CSR is consistent with, and enhances, our financial and
corporate performance.
A summary of our progress and performance in 2009 is
set out below, describing our continued progress in the
four key CSR areas, namely, corporate governance, our
workplace, our global footprint and our marketplace.
We have again published a separate, in-depth Corporate
Social Responsibility report which is available for
download from the Company's website.
Corporate governance
Corporate governance at Tomkins is recognised to be
amongst the best in class. At Board level, we continue
to address the demands of the changing regulatory
environment and place a strong emphasis on corporate
governance and risk management in all our activities.
Unless otherwise stated, we comply fully with the
requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance and also with the provisions of Sarbanes-
Oxley in so far as they apply to Tomkins.
Each year, we require our company Presidents to confirm
compliance with our corporate policies: Tomkins' Code
of Conduct and Ethics, Human Rights and HSE policies
(including Tomkins Global Minimum HSE Standards). I am
pleased to report there were no material cases of non-
compliance. In 2010, we are in the process of extending
confirmation to all employees holding positions of plant
Corporate governance
> Extended compliance programme
> Above-average governance ratings
Our workplace
> 27.7% reduction in injury rate
> Launched Tomkins fitness challenge
Our global footprint
> 110 sites with environmental management systems
> $490,643 charitable assistance
Our marketplace
> Full roll-out of supplier charter
> New HSEco-design programme 39
Corporate Social
Responsibility
Performance
Each business in the Group is encouraged to implement
comprehensive employment policies designed to motivate
employees and to determine ways in which knowledge
and skills can best contribute towards the success of the
business. Schemes are operated to encourage loyalty and
performance. For instance, the Sharesave Scheme provides
an opportunity to purchase shares in Tomkins plc.
We are firmly committed to the equitable treatment of all
our employees and qualified applicants for employment.
Equal opportunity is one of our most enduring and basic
beliefs and we aim to ensure that no discrimination in any
form is practised within our business. Furthermore, it is
the responsibility of each employee to help Tomkins
provide a work atmosphere free of harassment or abuse.
Employee involvement and communication programmes
continue to be developed, designed to provide equal
opportunity to all, irrespective of sex, race, religion or
colour. Each company in the Group endeavours to
provide equality of opportunity in recruiting, training,
promoting and developing the careers of disabled persons.
Our global footprint: environment and climate
change
Environmental liability represents a significant CSR risk
to be managed in all Tomkins' operations. Environmental
problems can consume valuable management time, place a
financial burden on profitability and impair our image in the
community. In order to mitigate these risks, our operations
are all subject to rigorous minimum environmental
standards. Tomkins incurred no environmental fines in 2009.
Our efforts are not limited to minimising the impact of
our operations on the environment but also extend to
manufacturing environmentally-responsible products.
More details of these products can be found in our full-
length CSR report for 2009.
Our facilities began reporting energy and water usage, air
emissions, waste and recycling efforts in 2007. Data quality
has improved each year and we have found this data
allows our companies to better manage their businesses.
In the table above, we have set out absolute figures
for waste production, energy and water consumption
and greenhouse gas emissions for 2009 and 2008.
We estimate that this data covers over 95% of our
operations and, as such, provides a meaningful guide
as to our environmental impacts.
Our global footprint: community
We recognise our responsibilities to the wider communities
in which our businesses operate. These responsibilities
range from consulting with local bodies, to providing
charitable assistance and supporting community and
Key performance indicators
Number of Number of
facilities facilities
2009 reporting 2008 reporting
Total waste (million metric tonnes) 0.084 154 0.118* 139
Landfill waste (million metric tonnes) 0.028 154 0.040 132
Total energy consumed (billion KWh) 1.426 154 1.682* 148
Water consumption (million m
3
) 2.178 154 2.524* 138
Total greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes) 0.163 154 0.177 127
* 2008 figures adjusted for increase in number of reporting locations and data revisions
corporate citizenship projects. Each of our facilities
operates its own community engagement programme.
Total charitable donations in the year were $490,643 (2008:
$1,075,580), of which the UK accounted for $90,168
(2008: $297,020); in the US they totalled $254,271
(2008: $593,671), of which $161,378 (2008: $297,054)
came from a Tomkins-funded charitable trust; and in the
remaining overseas companies, they totalled $146,204
(2008: $184,889). It is Tomkins' practice not to use
shareholders' funds to make political donations either in the
form of monetary donations or other in-kind benefits. No
political donations were made during the year (2008: $nil).
Our marketplace
The new Supplier Charter launched at the end of 2008
has now been fully rolled out across the Group.
Compliance with the terms of the Charter is incorporated
into the terms of all our companies' purchase orders.
We recently completed an HSEco-Design training manual
and programme which is being rolled out across the
Group. HSEco-Design is a systematic application of
environmental and health and safety considerations at
the product and manufacturing process design stage.
The way we produce, use and dispose of products
impacts the sustainability of the environment, as well
as our business. Through the application of HSEco-
Design, we aim to enhance business sustainability by
creating a more competitive product which meets the
needs of all our stakeholders.
Conclusion
The CSR Committee is extremely pleased with the strong
progress achieved with our CSR programme this year,
especially against the backdrop of global financial
turmoil. The Board also continues to emphasise its
commitment to CSR, in particular when conducting site
visits. We fully believe that the persistence of all our
employees in pursuing CSR activities contributes positively
to corporate performance.
Looking forward, we will continue to implement our CSR
strategy, focusing in 2010 on our key priorities of:
- Further improving our safety performance
- Wellness of employees
- Understanding and managing our environmental and
climate change impacts
- Recruiting and retaining talented people
- Continuing to support our local communities
Struan Robertson
Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
26 February 2010