 38
Corporate Social Responsibility
Introduction
At Tomkins, social responsibility is an integral part of
our everyday business practices and one of the drivers
of our success. We understand the need to balance
economic, environmental and social responsibilities in
a manner that meets the needs of our stakeholders.
Indeed, during the current economic crisis, it has
become even more important that we maintain our
focus on environmental and social matters. We believe
that excellence in CSR is consistent with, and
enhances, our financial performance.
A summary of our progress and performance in 2008
is set out below, describing our continued progress in
the four key CSR areas, namely, corporate governance,
our workplace, our global footprint and our
marketplace. We have again published a separate,
in-depth, Corporate Social Responsibility report which
is available for download from our website,
www.tomkins.co.uk.
Corporate governance
Corporate governance at Tomkins is recognised to be
amongst the best in class. At Board level, we continue
to address the demands of the changing regulatory
environment and place a strong emphasis on corporate
governance in all our activities.
Each year, we require our Company Presidents to
confirm compliance with our corporate policies;
Tomkins' Code of Conduct and Ethics, Human Rights
and HSE policies. I am pleased to report there were no
material cases of non-compliance.
This year, at an operational level, we undertook
Group-wide training on ethics, discrimination and
harassment avoidance and anti-trust issues. The
training programme covered over 11,000 employees
around the world. In December 2008, in recognition of
our increasingly global reach and the need to manage
risk, we introduced a new training initiative on the US
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
Our workplace: health and safety
The importance placed on health and safety by the
Board and management of Tomkins is reflective of the
belief that our commercial success is tied to strong
health and safety performance. We aspire to achieve
the same high safety standards throughout the Group,
regardless of the type of operation or its location. This
focus on safety has resulted in a 19.2% reduction in the
incident rate and a 2.7% fall in severity rate in 2008
versus 2007. These improvements were achieved
through the continuous efforts of all employees to
make safety a way of life.
Our Excellence Award Programme ran again in 2008,
with an increased number of our facilities participating.
The Excellence metrics were reviewed at the end of
the year to determine their effectiveness. No new
criteria were proposed for 2009, but it was
recommended that the targets for safety be more
rigorous to encourage innovation and leadership in
achieving excellent performance.
We selected employee wellness as one of our CSR
focus areas for 2008. As part of our wellness initiative,
we introduced a  tobacco-free in three' programme as
an option for our companies. As at the end of 2008,
there are only restricted outdoor areas at the majority
of Company properties where employees may smoke.
However, all locations are encouraged to be tobacco-
free in three years' time. Additionally, we have been
pursuing many voluntary preventive healthcare
initiatives at the operating level, ranging from personal
health assessments, annual health fairs, smoking-
cessation programmes, pre-shift stretching exercises,
company contributions to gym memberships through
to weight-loss competitions and the provision of
healthy-eating options.
Our workplace: employees
In the workplace, our aim is to be an employer of
choice. We believe there is a strong correlation
between effective people practices and business
success. We can improve the performance of the
business by developing our employees to their full
potential, by motivating staff appropriately and
through prudent succession planning. Our Human
Resources function operates on a decentralised
structure, mirroring the organisation of the Group.
This reflects our belief that localised teams, operating
under common principles, are best equipped to deal
with the varying cultures, operating structures and
geographic locations that exist around the Group. It
also helps foster local entrepreneurship, a key element
in Tomkins' culture.
Our workplace
> 19.2% reduction in injury rate
> Three-year wellness initiatives started
> Focus on employee health and well-being
Our global footprint
> Improved environmental performance
> 118 sites with environmental management
systems
> $1,075,580 charitable assistance
Our marketplace
> New supplier charter
> 86 sites with quality management systems
> Numerous customer awards
Governance/management
> Full policy compliance
> Group anti-discrimination and anti-trust
training
> Excellent governance ratings 39
Corporate Social
Responsibility
Each business in the Group is encouraged to
implement comprehensive employment policies
designed to motivate employees and to determine
ways in which knowledge and skills can best
contribute towards the success of the business.
Schemes are operated to encourage loyalty and
performance. For instance, the Tomkins 2005
Sharesave Scheme provides an opportunity to
purchase shares in Tomkins plc.
Employee involvement and communication
programmes continue to be developed that are
designed to provide equal opportunity to all,
irrespective of sex, race, religion or colour. Each
business in the Group endeavours to provide equality
of opportunity in recruiting, training, promoting and
developing the careers of disabled persons.
Our global footprint: environment and climate
change
Our facilities began reporting energy and water usage,
air emissions, waste and recycling efforts in 2007.
We have found this data allows our companies to
better manage their businesses and we have seen
a corresponding improvement in our environmental
performance as evidenced by our key performance
indicators.
In the table above, we have set out absolute figures
for waste production, energy and water consumption
and greenhouse gas emissions for 2008 and 2007.
Although this data does not cover 100% of our
operations, we believe it provides a meaningful guide
as to the impact of our operations.
Tomkins recognises that climate change is a global
business challenge. We are committed to reducing
our greenhouse gas emissions through efficiency
improvements and, in particular, the application of
lean manufacturing techniques. We continue to make
significant investments in our facilities, reducing
energy consumption, water usage and waste in order
to achieve optimal efficiency levels. Climate change
and the environment are also increasingly important
drivers of product and process innovation within
Tomkins.
Our global footprint: community
We recognise our responsibilities to the wider
communities in which our businesses operate. These
responsibilities range from consulting with local
bodies, to providing charitable assistance and
supporting community and corporate citizenship
projects. Total charitable donations in the year were
$1,075,580 (2007: $908,728), of which the UK
accounted for $297,020 (2007: $196,036); in the US
they totalled $593,671 (2007: $541,329), of which
$297,054 (2007: $245,149) came from a Tomkins-
funded charitable trust; and in the remaining overseas
companies they totalled $184,889 (2007: $171,363).
It is Tomkins' practice not to use shareholders' funds
to make political donations either in the form of
monetary donations or other in-kind benefits. No
political donations were made during the year
(2007: $nil).
Our marketplace
We value highly our relationships with our many,
diverse customers. Our products are sold in highly
competitive markets and so excellence in customer
service, product quality and innovation are always our
priority. Likewise, we continue to value our
relationships with our wide supplier base.
In late 2008, we introduced a Supplier Charter which
outlines our expectations with regards to standards in
our supply chain. We believe this initiative further
evidences our commitment to CSR by mandating the
ethical and respectful treatment of individuals, the
environment and wider community. The full Supplier
Charter can be downloaded from our website.
We maintain open communication channels with
the investment community and have devoted
considerable time and resources to our Investor
Relations programme. We responded to many queries
and requests for further information on our CSR
programme from a variety of stakeholders, ranging
from third-party survey and assessment organisations,
local communities, through to the Carbon Disclosure
Project. We maintained our status as a constituent
member of the FTSE4Good Index in 2008 and were
particularly pleased to have been very highly rated by
GovernanceMetrics International, a leading socially
responsible investment rating agency which specialises
in corporate governance ratings.
Conclusion
We are pleased with the progress achieved with our
CSR programme this year, in particular the addition of
a new Supplier Charter and our improved environmental
performance. This progress is testimony to the efforts
of all our employees around the Group who, despite
challenging economic and financial pressures,
continue to value the pursuit of our CSR activities.
We will endeavour to further improve our CSR
performance on a continued basis.
Struan Robertson
Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
24 February 2009
Key performance indicators
Number of Number of
facilities facilities
2008 reporting 2007 reporting
Total waste (million metric tonnes) 0.179 132 0.195 126
Landfill waste (million metric tonnes) 0.040 132 0.044 126
Total energy consumed (billion KWh) 1.577 127 1.604 114
Water consumption (million m
3
) 2.534 128 2.550 121
Total greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes) 0.177 127 0.137 114
Performance