 Other information Financial Statements Review of the business Governance
	 Plc	
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance 
that was issued in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council (the Code ) for which the Board is accountable to shareholders. 
Statement	of	compliance	with	the	Code	of	Best	Practice
The Company has complied throughout the period with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Code 
except for provision B.6.1, as the Board does not currently undertake formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its 
committees on the basis that it considers an informal rolling programme of review appropriate. The Company complies with all 
other provisions of the Code.
The Board of Directors comprises six members, of whom two are independent Non-Executive Directors and three are Executive 
Directors, led by the Company's Non-Executive Chairman, Mr Barry Bester. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is 
the Rt. Hon. Michael Jack, who also chairs the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee. Brief biographical details of all 
Directors are given on page 20. The Board meets at least ten times a year. Certain defined issues are reserved for the Board 
including approval of Financial Statements and circulars, annual budgets, strategy, Directors' appointments, internal control and risk 
management, corporate governance, key external and internal appointments and pensions and employee incentives.
In advance of Board Meetings, Directors are supplied with up-to-date information about trading performance, the Group's overall 
financial position and its achievement against prior year, budgets and forecasts. 
Where required, a director may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. All Directors have access 
to the Company Secretary and they may also address specific issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to re-election at least every third year. In line with the Code 
all Non-Executive Directors who have served for nine years or more will be subject to annual re-election. As such, the Rt. Hon. 
Michael Jack will be subject to re-election. In addition, in line with the updated Code, the Board has resolved that all Directors will 
be subject to annual re-election from the next Annual General Meeting. Directors are elected at the first AGM after appointment. 
All Non-Executive Directors have written letters of appointment. The Board acknowledges the Code's position with respect to the 
potential loss of independence for any Non-Executive Director who has served for nine years or more. Although the Rt. Hon. 
Michael Jack has exceeded this term the Board regards him to be independent and considers his broad based commercial 
experience and extensive business specific knowledge to be extremely beneficial.
The Board considers that the Rt. Hon. Michael Jack and Alan White are independent for the purposes of the Code. The terms and 
conditions for the appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection on request.
The Board will review the independence of Non-Executive Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board operates three committees. These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit 
Committee. All of these committees meet regularly and have formal written terms of reference which are available for inspection  
on request.
Attendance	at	Board/Committee	meetings
The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 53 week period ended 2 October 2010 
and the attendance record of the individual Directors.
Board of 
Directors
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings 11 2 4 2
B.F.J. Bester 11 2 4 2
M.T.M. Williams 11 2 N/A N/A
N.D. Ounstead 11 2 N/A N/A
R. Parker 11 2 N/A N/A
J.M. Jack 10 2 4 2
A. White 10 2 4 2
Corporate	Governance	Statement 	 Plc	
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26
Corporate	Governance	Statement	continued
Statement	about	applying	the	Principles	of	Good	Governance
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the 
Code of Best Practice as reported above. Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied in connection with Directors' 
remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Audit	Committee
The Audit Committee consists of Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman is the Rt. Hon. Michael Jack, the other member is  
Alan White, who has served on the Committee since his appointment on 1 April 2008.
The Audit Committee considers the nature and scope of the audit process (both internal and external) and its effectiveness. 
The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit programme, meets with the external auditors and considers the Annual 
and Interim Financial Statements before submission to the Board. The Committee reviews the arrangements by which staff may, 
in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The Committee also 
reviews the Group's system of internal control and reports its findings twice a year to the Board. The Committee meets with the 
external auditors, the rest of the Board attend at the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman.
As stated above, part of the role of the Audit Committee is to review the independence of the Company's auditors. The Company's 
external auditors, Deloitte LLP (Deloitte ), have provided non-audit services to the Company in the form of tax advice. The Audit 
Committee is aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could give rise to a potential conflict of interest. The Audit Committee 
has concluded that the auditors, Deloitte, are independent.
Deloitte has been auditor for the Group since September 2003. The current audit partner's first period as signing partner was the 
period ended September 2006 and the audit partner rotation plan has been discussed with the Committee. The Audit Committee 
considers the work of Deloitte and their independence in deciding whether an audit tender is required and, at this current point in 
time, is satisfied by the work of Deloitte and their independence, and so has proposed their re-appointment.
Nomination	Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by The Rt. Hon. Michael Jack. The other member is Alan White. Barry Bester joins at 
the invitation of the Nomination Committee Chairman. The formal terms of reference for this Committee require it to make 
recommendations to the Board for appointments of Directors and other senior executive staff. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria, taking into account the skills and experience required. 
Where appropriate, external search consultants are enlisted.
Dialogue	with	institutional	shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by 
making annual presentations and communicating regularly throughout the year. The Company also posts financial information on 
its website www.toppstiles.co.uk.
Maintenance	of	a	sound	system	of	internal	control
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been put in place from the 
start of the period to the date of the approval of this report and which is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal 
control published in October 2005 (The Turnbull Guidance). The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Group's system 
of internal control. The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, 
evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more 
extensive monitoring. The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purposes of this Annual Report. This assessment 
considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work of internal 
audit. The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings 
or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant. Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been 
considered appropriate. 