 18          Transcomm plc
Code of best practice
The maintenance of effective corporate governance is a key priority of the Board and shown below are
details of how the Company has applied the principles of the Stock Exchange Publication, The principles of
Good Governance and Code of Best Practice (the Combined Code).  This was derived from the final
report of the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel and certain
recommendations from the Cadbury Committee and the Greenbury Report. In view of the size of the
Company and the fact that the Company's shares are traded on AIM, the Company is not expected to
comply with all of the detailed requirements of the Combined Code.  However, except where noted
below, the Company has complied throughout the year with Section 1 of the Combined Code.  The Board
fully supports the principles of openness, integrity and accountability on which the Combined Code is
based and the principles of Higgs and Smith.
Directors and organisation
The Company's Board of directors at 31 December 2002 comprised seven directors, six of whom served
throughout the year ended 31 December 2002.  As at 13 March 2003, there were two executive directors
and three non-executive directors including the Chairman.
On 19 August 2002 A Carver joined the Board. On the same day, A Fitton stepped down from his executive
position as Chief Executive Officer and assumed a non executive role until 10 January 2003 when he left
the Board. On 31 January 2003, R Pullin left the Board. Both R Matthews and A Brocklebank  sit on the
Board of another quoted business and at the 31 December 2002 participated in the Group's share option
schemes.  J Jarvis was a former Chief Executive of the Company's principal operating subsidiary and also
participates in the Group's options schemes.  For these reasons, the Company considers none of its non-
executive directors to be independent.
The Company's Articles of Association provide that one third of the Company's Board shall automatically
retire each year.  Accordingly, J Jarvis and R Backhouse will be retiring and, being eligible, offer themselves
Corporate Governance Transcomm plc          19
for re-election at the Company's Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 April 2003.  The Company's
Articles also provide that every director appointed during the year shall automatically retire and seek
election at the next General Meeting following appointment.  A Carver, who was appointed to the Board
of Directors on 19 August 2002, will be retiring and, being eligible, will offer himself for election at the
Company's Annual General Meeting.
The Board which meets monthly during the year, provides effective leadership and control required for a
quoted company. Actual financial results are presented to each meeting, together with reports from the
executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility.  Each quarter, the Board receives detailed
presentations from non-Board members of the executive management team on matters of significance or
on new opportunities for the Group.
The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, talent and experience to perform the
functions required of a quoted company.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision, including the approval of
Group commercial strategy, major capital projects, the adoption of any significant change in accounting
policies or practices and material contracts not in the ordinary course of business.  The Board has resolved
to ensure the provision, to any director who believes it may be required in the furtherance of their duties,
of independent professional advice at the cost of the Company.
The Board meets with the executive management team on four occasions each year under the chairmanship
of the Chairman.  The executive management team led by the Chief Executive is responsible for the day-
to-day management of the Group's business. This includes operational performance, achievement of targets
of the Group's business and the overall financial performance of the Group in fulfilment of strategy, plans
and budgets, Group capital structure and funding. In addition the executive management team take
responsibility for the determination of policy and the non-operational areas of activity which are important
to the Group overall, including finance, human resources, legal, regulatory and corporate affairs.
Committees of the Board
The standing Board committees are the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Appointments
Committee.
The Audit Committee, which usually meet on three occasions during the year, is chaired by A Brocklebank.
The other members of the Committee are R Matthews and J Jarvis.
Under the terms of reference the Committee is required, amongst other things, to review the Company's
preliminary results, interim information and annual financial statements, to monitor the relationships with 20          Transcomm plc
external auditors, to monitor requirements with statutory and listing requirements and to instigate special
projects or other investigations as it sees fit.
Internal control
The Board has established procedures which, subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Responsibility
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.  A sound system of internal control
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Control structure
The Board sets the policy on internal control that is implemented by management.  This is achieved
through a clearly defined operating structure with lines of responsibility and delegated authority
implemented by the executive management team on a day to day basis.
Written policies and procedures have been issued which clearly define the limits of delegated authority
and provide a framework for management to deal with areas of significant business risk.  These policies
are reviewed and, where necessary, updated at executive management meetings.
Control environment
The Group's operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the
directors.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary management and are subject to review by both the Executive Committee
and the Board.  Forecasts are revised on a monthly basis and are compared against budget.  When setting
budgets and forecasts, management identifies, evaluates and reports on the potential significant business
risks.
The Board reviews management reports on the financial results and key operating statistics on a monthly
basis.
Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Group's employees.  The Group has adopted a set of
values to act as a framework for people to exercise judgement and make decisions on a consistent basis.
Corporate Governance (continued) Transcomm plc          21
Monitoring and review activities
There are processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting any control failings or
details together with any corrective action.  The Board does not believe it is necessary to introduce an
internal audit function given the size of the business and the effectiveness of internal control procedures
already in place.
Reports from the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, on certain internal controls and relevant financial
reporting matters, are presented to the Audit Committee and management.
Review of effectiveness
The directors believe that the Group's system of internal control provides reasonable but not absolute
assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control through
the monitoring process set out above and are not aware of any significant weaknesses or deficiency in the
Group's system of internal control for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual
Report.
Relations with shareholders
The Company holds briefing meetings with its major institutional shareholders usually twice each year
after the interim and preliminary final results announcements, to ensure that the investing community
receives a balanced and complete view of the Group's performance and the issues faced by the business.
Telecommunications analysts are also invited to the presentations of the financial results and are invited
to visit the Company on an ad hoc basis to discuss matters relating to the Group's operations.  The
Company responds to enquiries from any shareholders.
The principal communication with private investors is through the provision of the Annual Report and
Accounts, the Interim Statement and the Annual General Meeting, an occasion which is attended by all of
the Company's directors and at which all shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the
Chairman and the Board. Financial and other information is made available on the Company's internet
web site, which is regularly updated.
Shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet with the Non Executive members of the Board
without the presence of the Executive directors.
R Backhouse
Secretary