 TRA V IS PERKINS PLC
28
Combined code
In June 1998, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance ( the Code ) was issued by the London Stock Exchange. The Code is based
on the report of the Hampel Committee and sets out principles of good corporate governance together with specific provisions. Section 1
of the Code is applicable to companies. A statement on how the company has applied the principles and a statement explaining the extent
to which it has complied with the provisions in the Code appear below. The Code established fourteen principles of governance, which are
divided into the following four areas.
1. Directors
The company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently comprises three executive and five non-executive directors. 
Mr. E. C. Adams and Mr. C. M. Fisher are not considered to be independent non-executive directors in view of their previous executive
positions.  Other non-executive directors, Mr. M. B. Dearden, Mr. P. J. Maydon and Mr. T. E. P. Stevenson are independent. Mr. T. E. P.
Stevenson is chairman and Mr. F . J. McKay is chief executive. Appointments of new directors are made by the board on the recommendation
of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee. As chairman, Mr. Stevenson ensures that all directors receive sufficient relevant
information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. All directors are able to take independent professional advice in
the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at least ten times a year. It is responsible for overall group strategy,
acquisition policy, approval of major capital expenditure and consideration of significant financial and operational matters. It monitors the
exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and progress towards the
achievement of those budgets and their capital expenditure programmes. It also considers legislative, environmental, health and safety and
employment issues.
The board ensures that all directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as needed. All directors will submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years in accordance with the Code.
The board has established two standing committees, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Nominations Committee, which
operate within defined terms of reference. The trading subsidiary companies are managed by separate boards of directors, of which the
group executive directors are generally members. The minutes of their meetings and of the standing committees are available to the group
board of directors.
2. Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration and Nominations Committee consists exclusively of the independent non-executive directors, and meets at least twice a
year. Its responsibilities include the review of performance of executive directors and key members of senior management prior to
determining their remuneration. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is recommended by the chairman and is then determined
by the board of directors as a whole.
The Committee has access to professional advice from inside and outside the company. No director plays a part in the discussion about his
own remuneration.
The relevant information on directors' remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2002 is included within the Remuneration Report,
which is set out on pages 31 to 37.
3. Relations with shareholders
The company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries
received orally or in writing. The chairman, chief executive and the finance director, either separately or together, attended a number of
Corporate governance
For the year ended 31 December 2002 TRA V IS PERKINS PLC
29
meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders in the year ended 31 December 2002.
As well as sending annual and interim reports to shareholders, the company issues an annual trading statement in early January.
All shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available for questions
and a short business presentation takes place. The numbers of proxy votes for and against each agenda item are available at the Meeting.
4. Accountability and audit 
A review of the performance of the group's trading subsidiaries and the financial position of the group is included in the chief executive's
review and in the finance director's report set out on pages 6 to 14. The board uses this, together with the chairman's statement on pages
3 and 4, to present a full assessment of the company's position and prospects. The directors' responsibilities for the financial statements are
described on page 40.
Internal control
The board of directors is responsible for the group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In designing the system
of internal control, consideration is given to the significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and
the overall cost of controlling them. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives
and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The implementation and day-to-day operation of the system of internal controls has been delegated to executive directors and senior
management, but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed by the board in a process that accords with the Turnbull Report. As
part of its corporate governance procedures the board has received regular reports on specific areas of risk. If appropriate, these reports
include recommendations for improvement in controls or for the management of those risks.
Furthermore, steps continue to be taken to integrate risk management procedures into the group's operations, to extend awareness of the
importance of the management of risk and to ensure that recommended improvements brought to the attention of the board 
are implemented.
During 2002, the board reviewed its ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the group, and
for improving the system of internal control. The board has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal
control and risk management procedures, during the year and up until the date of approval of the annual report. This comprised receiving
a report from the chairman of the Audit Committee and an update on the monthly reports it had previously received. The following
particular measures should be noted:
  The internal control procedures operate within a clearly defined organisational structure, with assigned responsibilities and authorities.
Control procedures are regularly reviewed and are formally documented in group reference manuals;
  The group recognises the importance of the quality and integrity of its personnel; attention is paid to the experience and capabilities of
staff and their training needs; a formal system of succession planning is in place;
  There are clear policies on health and safety, environmental compliance, security, fraud and other irregularities;
  Business processes at the group's branches and at its head office are monitored through regular visits by the internal audit department
to ensure compliance with the policies and practices laid down by executive management. The frequency and detail of these visits is
determined by the priorities assessed as part of the annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee. The department also has
responsibility for monitoring and maintaining the group business continuity plan. The head of the internal audit department reports to
the Audit Committee twice a year; TRA V IS PERKINS PLC
30
  The group operates a comprehensive budgetary system with annual budgets being prepared within a three year plan. Both the three
year plan and annual budgets are reviewed and approved by the board. The preparation of these plans and budgets incorporates a
review of the commercial and other risks facing the group and results in financial targets being established for individual operating units
and for the group as a whole. Actual performance against budget is monitored monthly at regional, subsidiary and group board
meetings, using performance indicators and other exception reporting. Relevant financial and non-financial information is generated by
the group's reporting systems and communicated to management to enable actual performance to be monitored on a daily, weekly or
monthly basis, as appropriate;
  Bank facilities and other treasury functions are monitored by the finance director with any policy changes being reviewed and approved
by the board;
  The development of the group's IT systems is monitored by a separate information technology committee, which reviews the group's IT
continuity and disaster recovery plans, as well as the planning and implementation of any new systems;
  The group has a comprehensive system for controlling capital expenditure and assessing investment opportunities. Post investment
appraisals are undertaken on all major projects after a suitable period of time has elapsed.
Audit committee and auditors 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year, with both the external and internal auditors and the finance director in attendance. The
Audit Committee is responsible for agreeing external and internal audit plans and for reviewing and reporting to the board on accounting
policy and financial control and reporting matters.
The company places great importance on the independence of its auditors and together with them is careful to ensure their objectivity is
not compromised. Audit fees are negotiated by the finance director and approved by the Audit Committee. For other services that may be
provided by the auditors, the company's policy is:
Audit related services - The auditors are invited by the company to undertake those services that they are required to and are most suited
to perform. Such work would include certification in respect of borrowings, stock exchange related reporting and
where appropriate, assistance with acquisitions.
Taxation services - The external auditors assist the group to meet general tax compliance requirements as well as providing advice on
acquisitions and tax planning. Should opportunities arise for them to advise on special projects, their suitability is
assessed at the time, with the work being tendered where appropriate.
Consulting services - The group's policy is not to employ its auditors for general consulting work.
Future developments
The board has commenced a process to consider and take account of the recommendations and guidance contained in the Higgs review
of non-executive directors and in the Smith report on audit committees, both published in January 2003.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable
expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate governance compliance statement
The company is pleased to report that it has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 with the provisions set out in Section
1 of the Code.