 45
R OLE OF TH E A UDIT
C O MM ITTEE
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
  The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and
any formal announcements relating to the Company's finan-
cial performance, and reviewing significant financial
reporting judgements contained therein;
  Reviewing the Company's internal financial controls and,
unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the
Company's internal control and risk management systems;
  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company's
internal audit function;
  Making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be
put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting,
in relation to the appointment and remuneration of the
external auditors;
  Reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for
monitoring the conduct of the audit;
  Reviewing the external auditors' independence and objectivity
and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consid-
eration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
  Reviewing the Company's policy on the engagement of the
external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-
audit services by an external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the
Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers
that action or improvement is needed, and make recommenda-
tions as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee's full terms of reference are available on the
Company's website, or on request to the Company Secretary.
C O M POSITIO N OF TH E 
AUDIT C O MM ITTEE
Chris Bunker was Chairman of the Committee throughout 2008.
Michael Dearden was a member until his retirement on 11
November 2008, when he was replaced by Andrew Simon. John
Coleman was appointed a member on 28 January 2008,
following the resignation of Stephen Carter. All members of the
Committee are considered to be independent. The Company
Secretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to the Committee. The Board
considers that Chris Bunker has the recent and relevant finan-
cial experience required by the Combined Code (see also the
Board profiles on pages 40 and 41).
MEETI N GS AN D ATTEN DAN CE
The Committee met four times during 2008 to consider inter
alia, the annual and interim results. The Chairman of the
AUDIT COMM ITTEE R EPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008
Committee also invited the Group Chairman, the Finance
Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group Financial
Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance
and the external auditors to attend each meeting. During each
meeting, the external auditors and the Group Head of Busi-
ness Risk and Assurance were given the opportunity to talk
with the Committee without the presence of management. In
addition, during the year, the Committee Chairman held a
number of meetings with the Group Head of Business Risk and
Assurance and with the external auditors, all without manage-
ment being present.
M AI N A CTIVITIES OF TH E
C O MM ITTEE DURI N G TH E YE AR
At its meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual
financial statements of the Company and received reports from
the internal auditors on internal control matters and from the
external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of
accounting policies, areas of judgment and the financial state-
ments and their comments on statements concerning risk and
internal control. A similar review was undertaken at its July
meeting when the interim statements were considered. At these
meetings, and at its meetings in June and November, the
Committee also reviewed:
  The committee's terms of reference and recommended
minor changes to the Board;
  An evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board
evaluation process referred to on page 43, and reported to
the Board on this evaluation;
  Any comments received on its 2007 report from institutional
investor bodies;
  The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control
and the system for monitoring and reporting on risks faced
by the Group;
  The strategy, staffing, processes and effectiveness of the
internal audit department and recommended to the Board
minor changes to the terms of reference of that department;
  The status of actions taken in response to recommendations
arising from internal audit work;
  The operation of the Group's whistleblowing  policy;
  The policy on engagement of the external auditor for non-
audit work, as referred to below, and its policy on the employ-
ment of anyone previously employed by the external auditor;
  The plans presented by the external auditor for conduct of
the year-end audit including terms of engagement, fees and
letters of representation;
  The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the
external auditors, taking into account written assurances
provided by Deloitte LLP with regard to its quality and inde-
pendence controls, and its ethical standards;
82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1  31/3/09  16:33  Page 45 46
A UDIT COMMITTEE REPOR T 
  The Group's accounting policies and forthcoming changes to
International Financial Reporting Standards and other regu-
latory changes;
  Methods of fraud prevention;
  Responsibilities in the Group for health & safety audits;
  The Group's tax planning.
EXTER N AL A UDIT O RS
The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and
independence of its external auditors and together with them is
careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised. At its
November meeting, the auditors presented to the Committee
their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of their
proposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and
independence are not compromised. 
It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the
Board's policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid
to, the auditors. Audit fees are negotiated by the Finance Director
and approved by the Audit Committee. For other services that
could be provided by the auditors, the Company's policy is:
General Principles
The Group should not employ the auditors to provide non-audit
services where either the nature of the work or the extent of
such services might impair the auditors' independence or
objectivity. Any assignment to the auditors of non-audit work
with a fee over  25,000 requires the approval of the Chairman
of the Committee.
Work as Auditor and Reporting Accountant
The auditors are invited by the Company to undertake those
services that they are required to and are most suited to
perform. Such work includes certification in respect of borrow-
ings, Stock Exchange related reporting, review of the satisfaction
of share scheme performance criteria, accounting advice and
reviews of accounting standards and, where appropriate, assis-
tance with acquisitions.
Taxation
The auditors assist the Group to meet general tax compliance
requirements as well as providing advice on tax planning. Should
opportunities arise for them to advise on special tax projects,
their suitability is assessed at the time to ensure it would not
compromise their audit independence, with the work being
tendered where appropriate.
Advisory and Consultancy Work
On occasions, the auditors may be best placed to undertake
other advisory or consultancy work due to their knowledge of
the Group. However, certain types of work are prohibited, where
such work might prejudice the independence or objectivity of
the auditors. Any work for which the fee might exceed  50,000
is subject to competitive tender.
In view of the exceptional market conditions experienced
during the year, Deloitte were requested to undertake a number
of assignments associated with the Group's financing arrange-
ments and related tax matters. The increased non-audit fees
incurred during the year reflect these assignments. However, the
Committee remains satisfied that their independence and objec-
tivity as auditors were not impaired.
Deloitte LLP (or its predecessor firms) a leading international
audit partnership, was first appointed as auditor to Group
companies more than 30 years ago and its fees are regularly
compared with peer companies by the Committee. There are no
contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to its appoint-
ment. In accordance with professional standards, the partner
responsible for the audit is changed every 5 years. 
Following its February 2009 meeting, the Committee recom-
mended to the Board that a resolution be put to shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the
external auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remu-
neration. 
I N TER N AL A UDIT
As well as its reviews of the internal audit department's strategy
and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2008,
the Committee received presentations from the Group Head of
Business Risk and Assurance, about the results of work under-
taken by the department, and approved its plans for work in
2009. The Committee was satisfied with the overall effective-
ness of the department.
O VER VIEW
As a result of its work during the year, and taking into account
the result of the Board and Committee evaluation process
described on page 43, the Committee has concluded that it has
acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured
the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external
and internal auditors. 
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work
of the Committee.
Chris Bunker
Chairman, Audit Committee
18 February 2009
82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1  31/3/09  16:33  Page 46