 42
C O MBI NED C O D E
T
he London Stock Exchange first issued the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance (the Code ) in 1998
and it was revised most recently in June 2008. Section
1 of the Code is applicable to companies. A statement explaining
how the Company has applied the principles and the extent to
which it has complied with the provisions of the Code appears
below. The Code contains fourteen main principles of gover-
nance, which are divided into the following four areas:
1. Directors
The Company is controlled through a board of directors, which
presently comprises the Chairman, three executive and three
non-executive directors. Tim Stevenson is Chairman and Geoff
Cooper is Chief Executive. Chris Bunker is the Senior Inde-
pendent Director, a role which was fulfilled by Michael Dearden
until his retirement on 11 November 2008. John Coleman and
Andrew Simon are also independent non-executive directors.
Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on the
recommendation of the Nominations Committee. It is intended to
appoint a further non-executive director in the near future. All
directors will submit themselves for re-election at least every
three years. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it
and meets at least ten times a year. It is responsible for overall
group strategy, policy on corporate governance matters, acqui-
sition policy, approval of major capital expenditure and consid-
eration of significant financial and operational matters. It
monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the
strategy of the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and
progress towards the achievement of those budgets and their
capital expenditure programmes. It also considers legislative,
environmental, health & safety and employment issues. The
Board has approved a written statement of the division of key
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring that each director
is able to make an effective contribution. He also monitors the
information provided to the Board to ensure it is sufficient, timely
and clear, and from time to time, the Board reviews the adequacy
of this information.
The Board held fourteen meetings during 2008, three of
which were by conference telephone call. One meeting dealt
with consideration of the Company's long-term strategy and
seven meetings either included visits to parts of the Company's
operations or included presentations by senior executives on
their areas of responsibility. Individual visits to operational sites
by non-executive directors also occurred. In addition to the
CORPORATE GOVER NAN CE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008
regular board meetings, key financial information is circulated
to directors outside of meetings. The Chairman has regular
direct contact with the executive directors and keeps the non-
executive directors informed of material developments between
board meetings.
All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary
and may take independent professional advice in the further-
ance of their duties if necessary. The Company maintains
directors & officers' insurance in respect of the risk of claims
against directors.
The Chairman held two meetings during the year with all the
non-executive directors, without the executive directors being
present. The Senior Independent Director held a number of indi-
vidual discussions with other directors during the year, without
the Chairman being present, to evaluate the Chairman's
performance, and then provided feedback to the Board. The
Board has an induction process for new directors, which is facil-
itated by the Company Secretary. The Chairman ensures that all
directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then
subsequently as required, taking into account the need to update
their skills and their knowledge of the Company's business. They
are also regularly provided with information on forthcoming legal
and regulatory changes and corporate governance develop-
ments, and briefings on the key risks facing the Company,
including those identified in the Corporate Responsibility state-
ment on page 39.
The Board has established five standing committees: the
Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomina-
tions Committee, the Health & Safety Committee and the Exec-
utive Committee, which operate within defined terms of
reference. Details are available on the Company's website or
may be obtained from the Company Secretary. The minutes of
committee meetings are available to all the directors. The
reports of the Audit Committee, Health & Safety Committee,
Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee and are
on pages 45 and 46, 47 and 48, 49 to 57 and 58 respectively. 
The Executive Committee members are listed on page 41.
Other executives are invited to attend from time to time in rela-
tion to specific matters. The principal purpose of the Committee
is to assist the executive directors in the performance of their
duties in relation in particular to:
  Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and
budgets;
  The monitoring of operational and financial performance;
  The assessment and control of risk;
  The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
The number of board and committee meetings attended by each
director (in whole or in part) during the year was as follows:
82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1  31/3/09  16:33  Page 42 43
CORPOR A TE GO VERN ANCE 
PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive
No. No. No. No. No. No.
Number of meetings 144613 11
Attendances:
C. J. Bunker 14411 - -
J. P . Carter 14 3 - - 3 11
J. Coleman 14461 - -
G. I. Cooper 14 - 6 1 - 11
M. B. Dearden 123413 -
P . N. Hampden Smith 14 4 2 - - 11
A. H. Simon 13 - 6 1 3 -
T. E. P . Stevenson 144613 -
During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its
performance and the performance of its committees and the
individual directors. This consisted of interviews by the Chairman
with each other director and the Company Secretary separately,
focussing on the operation of the Board and, its committees and
in particular on those matters identified in 2007 where measures
were taken to enhance performance. These interviews formed
the basis of a report by the Chairman that was the subject of a
discussion by the Board, which was satisfied that the process
showed that the Board and its committees worked effectively.
However, it agreed a number of measures, in particular relating
to the presentation of board business, aimed at further
enhancing its performance. A board evaluation process will be
carried out in 2009. 
2. Directors' Remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and
three independent non-executive directors, and meets at least
four times a year. Its responsibilities include remuneration policy
and a review of the performance of executive directors prior to
determining their remuneration. The remuneration of the non-
executive directors is determined by the Board as a whole,
except that the Remuneration Committee makes a recommen-
dation in respect of the Chairman's salary. No director plays a
part in the discussion about his own remuneration. 
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 49 to 57.
3. Accountability and Audit 
A review of the performance of the Group's trading subsidiaries
and the financial position of the Group is included in the Chief
Executive's review of the year, in the Chief Operating Officer's
review of the year and in the Finance Director's review of the
year set out on pages 10 to 38. The Board uses them, together
with the Chairman's statement on pages 8 and 9 to present a full
assessment of the Company's position and prospects. The Direc-
tors' responsibilities for the financial statements are described
on page 63.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In designing the
system of internal control, consideration is given to the signifi-
cant risks to the business, the probability of these risks mani-
festing themselves and the most cost effective means of
controlling them. The system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, and
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control
has been delegated to executive directors and senior manage-
ment, but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed
by the Board in a process that accords with the Turnbull Guid-
ance. The Board and the Executive Committee receive regular
reports on specific areas of risk. If appropriate, these reports
include recommendations for improvement in controls or for the
management of those risks. Measures to integrate risk manage-
ment processes into the Group's operations, to extend aware-
ness of the importance of risk management and to ensure that
recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly
reviewed and refreshed. Senior executives are asked, twice a
year, to confirm the adequacy of internal controls in their areas
of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm
the accuracy and completeness of information given to the
82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1  31/3/09  16:33  Page 43 44
CORPOR A TE GO VERN ANCE 
directors and to the external auditors.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried
out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of
internal control and risk management procedures, during the year
and up until the date of approval of the annual report. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS 
The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 45 and 46.
4. Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two-way communication with both
its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to
all enquiries received. During the year the Chairman, the Senior
Independent Director and the executive directors, either sepa-
rately or together, attended a number of meetings with analysts,
and with shareholders representing circa 60% of the issued
share capital. The Chairman and executive directors report to
the Board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts. In
addition, written reports about the Company by analysts or
brokers are circulated to all directors.
As well as sending annual and interim reports to share-
holders, the Company issued two interim management state-
ments and one further trading update during the year. All share-
holders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual
General Meeting at which all directors are available for ques-
tions and a short business presentation takes place. Each
substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution. The
numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are
announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and
are subsequently published on the Company's website.
GOI N G C O N CER N
This matter is dealt with on page 34 of the Finance Director's
review of the year.
C O RPO R ATE GO VER NAN CE
C O M PLIAN CE S TATEMEN T
The Company is pleased to report that it has complied
throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 with the provi-
sions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1  31/3/09  16:33  Page 44