  
17334   proof 3  1/4/10
49 A U D I T C O M M I T T E E R E P O R T 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
 
  The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and 
any formal announcements relating to the Company's financial 
performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments 
contained therein;
 
  Reviewing the Company's internal financial controls and, unless 
expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Company's internal 
control and risk management systems;
 
  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company's internal 
audit function;
 
  Reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for monitoring 
the conduct of the audit;
 
  Reviewing the external auditors' independence and objectivity and 
the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
 
  Reviewing the Company's policy on the engagement of the external 
auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant 
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by an 
external audit firm;
 
  Making a recommendation to the Board, for a resolution to be put 
to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation 
to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, 
identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or 
improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps 
to be taken.
The Committee's full terms of reference are available on the 
Company's website, or on request to the Company Secretary.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Chris Bunker was Chairman and John Coleman was a member of 
the Committee throughout 2009. Andrew Simon was a member until 
29 June 2009 when he was replaced by Philip Jansen. All members 
of the Committee are considered to be independent. The Company 
Secretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to the Committee. The Board 
considers that Chris Bunker has the recent and relevant financial 
experience required by the Combined Code (see also the Board 
profiles on pages 44 and 45).
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
The Committee met five times during 2009 to consider inter alia, the 
annual and interim results. Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 
47. The Chairman of the Committee also invited the Group Chairman, 
the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance and the 
external auditors to attend four of the meetings. When present, the 
external auditors and the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance 
were given the opportunity to talk with the Committee without the 
presence of management. In addition, during the year, the Committee 
Chairman held a number of meetings with the Group Head of Business 
Risk and Assurance and with the external auditors, all without manage-
ment being present.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE  
DURING THE YEAR
At its meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual finan-
cial statements of the Company and received reports from the internal 
auditors on internal control matters and from the external auditors on 
the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of 
judgment and the financial statements and their comments on state-
ments concerning risk and internal control. A similar review was under-
taken at its July meeting when the interim statements were considered. 
At these and its other meetings the Committee also reviewed:
 
  An evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board evaluation 
process referred to on page 48, and reported to the Board on this 
evaluation;
 
  The Committee's terms of reference; no changes were recommended 
to the Board;
 
  Any comments received on its 2008 report from institutional investor 
bodies;
 
  The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and the 
system for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the Group;
 
  The strategy, staffing, processes and effectiveness of the internal 
audit department and recommended to the Board minor changes to 
the terms of reference of that department;
 
  The work carried out by the internal audit department and its 
external advisor, Grant Thornton, to monitor risks specifically related 
to information technology;
 
  The status of actions taken in response to recommendations arising 
from internal and external audit work;
 
 The operation of the Group's whistleblowing  policy;
 
  The policy on engagement of the external auditor for non-audit work, 
as referred to below, and its policy on the employment of anyone 
previously employed by the external auditor;
 
  The plans presented by the external auditor for conduct of the 
year-end audit including terms of engagement, fees and letters of 
representation;
 
  The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the external 
auditors, taking into account written assurances provided by Deloitte 
LLP with regard to its quality and independence controls, and its 
ethical standards;
 
  The Group's accounting policies, forthcoming changes to International 
Financial Reporting Standards and other regulatory changes and 
various guidance notes issued by the Financial Reporting Council;
 
  The Group's policies and processes for fraud prevention;
 
  The Group's tax planning.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and   
17334   proof 3  1/4/10
50 A U D I T C O M M I T T E E R E P O R T 
independence of its external auditors and together with them is careful 
to ensure their objectivity is not compromised. At its November meeting, 
the auditors presented to the Committee their plans for the forthcoming 
audit together with details of their proposed fees and how they ensure 
that their objectivity and independence are not compromised. 
Deloitte LLP (or its predecessor firms) a leading international audit 
partnership, was first appointed as auditor to Group companies more 
than 30 years ago. There are no contractual restrictions on the Group 
with regard to their appointment. In accordance with professional stan-
dards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed every 5 years, 
and will change in 2010. 
Following its February 2010 meeting, the Committee recommended 
to the Board that a resolution be put to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting for the re-appointment of the external auditors, and to 
authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the Board's 
policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, the auditors. 
Audit fees, which are regularly compared with peer companies by the 
Committee, are negotiated by the Finance Director and approved by 
the Audit Committee. The policy in relation to other services that could 
be provided by the external auditors was revised during the year. The 
revised policy, which was subsequently approved by the Board, can be 
summarised as follows:
General Principles
There is a presumption against the external auditors providing non-
audit services and they should only be selected for such work where 
its nature makes it more timely and cost effective to select advi-
sors who have a good understanding of the Group or the work is of 
a particularly confidential or specialist nature. The external auditors 
should not provide non-audit services where either the nature of the 
work or the extent of such services might impair their independence or 
objectivity. Any assignment to the external auditors of non-audit work 
with a fee over  25,000 requires the approval of the Chairman of the 
Committee.
Areas of Work 
The policy lists certain non-audit services where it would be usual 
to engage the auditors, such as regulatory reviews and certain tax 
services, and those where their engagement is not permitted, such 
as work that would conflict with ethical guidance to auditors, or work 
relating to the design of financial information systems. The Committee 
Chairman is consulted in relation to any proposed work not covered 
by the list.
Value of Work
Non audit services require approval as follows:
 
   Up to  5,000 - no formal approval required provided the work is 
permitted under the list referred to above;
 
     5,000 to  25,000 - Group Finance Director;
 
    25,000 to  50,000 - Group Finance Director and Committee 
Chairman;
 
     50,000 and above - Group Finance Director and Committee 
Chairman following a competitive tender.
Formal Committee approval is also required if the aggregated level 
of forecast fees for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the statutory 
audit fee.
Reporting
The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Committee on 
fees for non-audit services payable to the auditors.
During the year the Auditors were paid  414,311 for work they were 
required by the Listing Rules to undertake in respect of the Group's 
rights issue. Other non-audit related fees paid to the Auditor totalled 
 107,834 (2008:  487,300).
INTERNAL AUDIT
As well as its reviews of the internal audit department's strategy and 
processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2009, the 
Committee received presentations from the Group Head of Business 
Risk and Assurance, about the results of work undertaken by the 
department, and approved its plans for work in 2010. The Committee 
was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the department.
OVERVIEW
As a result of its work during the year, and taking into account the result 
of the Board and Committee evaluation process described on page 48, 
the Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its 
terms of reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness of the external and internal auditors. 
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Chris Bunker
Chairman, Audit Committee
23 February 2010