 Treatt plc Report & Financial Statements 2004
17
Corporate Governance Statement
There is a commitment to high standards of Corporate
Governance throughout the Group. The Board confirms that
throughout the year ended 30 September 2004 the Group has
complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code, except for:
  Two Executive Directors have service contracts which provide
for two years notice. The Board believes this is appropriate to
attract and retain key Executive Directors who possess
specialist industry knowledge and is therefore in the best
interests of shareholders.
  W.G. Bovill is not considered to be independent due to his
shareholding in the Company. However, it is considered that
this does not affect his independent judgement of matters
dealt with by the various Committees on which he serves.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for
good governance and the statement set out below describes how
the principles identified in the Combined Code (appended to the
Stock Exchange Listing Rules) are applied by the Company.
Directors
During the year the Board consisted of a Chairman, E.W. Dawnay,
three Non-executive Directors and four Executive Directors, of
which H.W. Bovill is the Managing Director. Of the Non-executive
Directors the Board considers E.W. Dawnay and P .A. Thorburn to
be independent of management and free of any relationship
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement. Neither have any significant interest in
the shares of the Company and both received a fixed fee for their
services. 
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 11. 
The Board meets at least five times each year and more
frequently where business needs require. The Board has a
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the
requirement for Board approval on these matters is
communicated widely throughout the Senior Management of the
Group. These include matters such as material capital
commitments, commencing or settling major litigation, business
acquisitions and disposals and appointments to subsidiary
company boards. 
The Board has established a number of standing Committees to
which various matters are delegated according to defined terms
of reference. The principal Committees are the Nomination
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit
Committee. The principle terms of reference for each Committee
are shown below.
Nomination Committee
To consider the appointment or retirement of Directors, to review
proposed nominations and make recommendations thereon to
the Board.
Remuneration Committee
To determine the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the
Senior Executives of the Group.
Audit Committee
To review the scope and findings of the Company's auditors, to
commission any additional investigation work and to ensure the
adequacy of accounting controls and procedures.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice if necessary and at the Company's expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the
Company Secretary. The Secretary is charged by the Board with
ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When new members are appointed to the Board they are
provided with access to an appropriate external training course
and to advice from the Company's solicitors in respect of their
role and duties as a public company Director. Where a new Board
member has significant relevant experience, training may be felt
to be unnecessary.
The differing roles of Chairman and Managing Director are
acknowledged and defined in separate statements approved by
the Board. The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct
Board Meetings, meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all
Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and
constructive part in Board discussions. The Managing Director is
required to develop and lead business strategies and processes
to enable the Group's business to meet the requirements of its
shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is E.W. Dawnay and concerns
relating to the executive management of the Company or the
performance of the other Non-executive Directors may be raised
with him.
To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to
discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to
all relevant information. In the case of Board Meetings, this
consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular
business progress reports and discussion documents regarding
specific matters. Treatt plc Report & Financial Statements 2004
18
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-executive
Directors are considered by the Nomination Committee.
Members of the Nomination Committee throughout the year are
shown on page 9. The Nomination Committee consults with
Executive Directors when considering appointments and ensures
that a wide range of candidates are considered. The
recommendations of the Nomination Committee are ultimately
made to the full Board which considers them before any
appointment is made. The Remuneration Committee considers
any remuneration package before it is offered to a potential
appointee. 
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the
provisions of the Company's Articles of Association, to retire and
seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General
Meeting. The Articles so require that one third of the Directors
retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual
General Meeting. The Directors required to retire are those in
office longest since their previous re-election and this usually
means that each Director retires at least every three years,
although there is no absolute requirement to this effect. In order
to comply with the Combined Code, but to avoid the expense of
amending the Company's Articles to deal with this single point,
the Board has resolved that each Director will retire at least every
three years, even if this is not strictly required by the Articles.
Full details of the Directors' remuneration and a statement of the
Company's remuneration policy is set out in the Report of the
Board on Directors' Remuneration appearing on pages 20 to 22.
Members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year
are shown on page 9 and the principal terms of reference of the
Committee appear on page 17. The Managing Director attends
meetings of the Remuneration Committee to discuss the
performance of the other Executive Directors and make
proposals as necessary, but is not present when his own position
is being discussed.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at
full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee
recommendations where the recommendations have a direct
bearing on their own remuneration package. The details of each
Executive Director's individual package are fixed by the
Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Communication
The Company places a great deal of importance on
communication with its shareholders. The Company mails to all
shareholders half yearly results, as well as its full report and
financial statements. This information is also available on its
website and, upon request, to other parties who have an interest
in the Group's performance. Shareholders also have direct
access to the Company and the Company responds to letters
from shareholders and customers on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders
as well as presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the
Company's Annual General Meeting and the Company makes a
presentation at the meeting to highlight the key business
developments during the financial year.
Financial and Internal Control
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors
in connection with the financial statements are explained on
pages 19 and 23 and the statement of the Directors on going
concern appears on page 13.
The Board confirms that a process for the ongoing identification,
evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the
Company has been in place throughout the year and to the date
of approval of this report, which complies with the guidance
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board.
The Directors are responsible for the Company's system of
internal control, the effectiveness of which is reviewed by them
annually. In addition to monitoring reports received via the
Executive Directors they consider the risks faced by the
Company, whether the control systems are appropriate and
consult with internal and external experts on environmental,
insurance, legal and health and safety compliance. However
such a system can only provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The key
procedures that the Directors have established to provide
effective internal controls are as follows:
Financial Reporting
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses
culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the
Board. Results for the Company and its main constituent
businesses are reported monthly against the budget to the Board
and revised forecasts for the year are prepared through the year.
Financial and Accounting Principles
Financial controls and accounting policies are set by the Board
so as to meet appropriate levels of effective financial control.
Compliance with these policies and controls is reviewed where
necessary by external auditors.