 Treatt plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
15
Corporate Governance Statement
There is a commitment to high standards of Corporate
Governance throughout the Group. The Board confirms that
throughout the year ended 30 September 2006 the Group has
complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code, except for clause B1.6 in that two Executive
Directors have service contracts which provide for two years
notice. The Board believes this is appropriate to attract and
retain key Executive Directors who possess specialist industry
knowledge and is therefore in the best interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for
good governance and the statement set out below describes how
the principles identified in the Combined Code (appended to the
Stock Exchange Listing Rules) are applied by the Company.
Directors
Details of the Directors who served during the year, the positions
they hold and the committees of which they are members are
shown on page 9. During the year the Board consisted of a
Chairman, E.W. Dawnay, two additional Non-executive Directors
and three Executive Directors, of which H.W. Bovill is the
Managing Director. Of the Non-executive Directors the Board
considers E.W. Dawnay and P .A. Thorburn to be independent of
management and free of any relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Neither have any significant interest in the shares of the
Company and both received a fixed fee for their services. The
Board is satisfied that the Chairman's other commitments do not
detract from the extent or the quality of the time which he is able
to devote to the Company.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for the annual
evaluation of the Board, its committees and its Directors. The
Board is satisfied with the evidence it provided about the balance
and the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the
effectiveness and commitment of each Director.
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 12. 
The Board meets at least five times each year and more frequently
where business needs require. The Board has a schedule of matters
reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on
these matters is communicated widely throughout the senior
management of the Group. These include matters such as material
capital commitments, commencing or settling major litigation,
business acquisitions and disposals and appointments to subsidiary
company boards. 
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice if necessary and at the Company's expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the
Company Secretary. The Secretary is charged by the Board with
ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When new members are appointed to the Board they are
provided with access to an appropriate external training course
and to advice from the Company's solicitors in respect of their
role and duties as a public company director. Where a new Board
member has significant relevant experience, training may be felt
to be unnecessary.
The differing roles of Chairman and Managing Director are
acknowledged and defined in separate statements approved by
the Board. The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct
board meetings, meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all
Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and
constructive part in Board discussions. The Managing Director is
required to develop and lead business strategies and processes
to enable the Group's business to meet the requirements of its
shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is E.W. Dawnay and concerns
relating to the executive management of the Company or the
performance of the other Non-executive Directors may be raised
with him.
To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to
discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to
all relevant information. In the case of board meetings, this
consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular
business progress reports and discussion documents regarding
specific matters.
Appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-executive
Directors are considered by the Nomination Committee. Members
of the Nomination Committee throughout the year are shown on
page 9. The Nomination Committee consults with Executive
Directors when considering appointments and ensures that a wide
range of candidates are considered. The recommendations of the
Nomination Committee are ultimately made to the full Board which
considers them before any appointment is made. The
Remuneration Committee considers any remuneration package
before it is offered to a potential appointee. 
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the
provisions of the Company's Articles of Association, to retire and
seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General
Meeting. The Articles so require that one third of the Directors
retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual
General Meeting. The Directors required to retire are those in
office longest since their previous re-election and this usually
means that each Director retires at least every three years,
although there is no absolute requirement to this effect. In order
to comply with the Combined Code, but to avoid the expense of
amending the Company's Articles to deal with this single point,
the Board has resolved that each Director will retire at least every
three years, even if this is not strictly required by the Articles.
Full details of the Directors' remuneration and a statement of the
Company's remuneration policy is set out in the Directors'
Remuneration Report appearing on pages 18 to 20. Members of
the Remuneration Committee throughout the year are shown on
page 9 and the principal terms of reference of the Committee
appear on page 16. The Managing Director attends meetings of
the Remuneration Committee to discuss the performance of the
other Executive Directors and make proposals as necessary, but
is not present when his own position is being discussed.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at
full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee
recommendations where the recommendations have a direct
bearing on their own remuneration package. The details of each
Executive Director's individual package are fixed by the
Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Board Committees
The Board has established a number of standing committees to
which various matters are delegated according to defined terms of Treatt plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
statements. This information is also available on its website and,
upon request, to other parties who have an interest in the Group's
performance. Shareholders also have direct access to the Company
and the Company responds to letters from shareholders and
customers on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as
well as presentations after the interim and preliminary results. All
shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the
Company's Annual General Meeting and the Company makes a
presentation at the meeting to highlight the key business
developments during the financial year.
Financial and Internal Control
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in
connection with the financial statements are explained on pages 17
and 21 and the statement of the Directors on going concern
appears on page 13.
The Board confirms that a process for the ongoing identification,
evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the
Company has been in place throughout the year and to the date of
approval of this report, which complies with the guidance Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code. The process
is subject to regular review by the Board.
16
Corporate Governance Statement continued
reference. The principal committees are the Nomination
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit
Committee. The principal terms of reference for each Committee
are shown below.
Nomination Committee
To consider the appointment or retirement of Directors, to review
proposed nominations and make recommendations thereon to the
Board. 
Remuneration Committee
To determine the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the
Senior Executives of the Group.
Audit Committee
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as follows:
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board reviews the
effectiveness of the system of internal control from information
provided by management and the Group's auditors. Any system of
internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance of meeting the internal control objectives. 
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of the
external auditors under review. The independence and objectivity of
the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis, with
particular regard to the level of non-audit fees. The split between
audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on 
page 32. The non-audit fees were paid mainly in respect of tax
advice and tax compliance work and are considered by the
Committee not to affect independence or objectivity.
In accordance with C3.4 of the Combined Code, the Audit
Committee is responsible for ensuring that procedures are in place
whereby staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns
about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or
other matters. The Audit Committee has arrangements in place for
the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters
and for appropriate follow-up action. 
Communication
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication
with its shareholders. The Company mails to all shareholders half
yearly results, as well as its full annual report and financial
The members of the Board and its committees, together with their attendance are shown below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held in year 6 1 1 10
Hugo William Bovill
Managing Director 6 N/A 1 N/A
Anita Jane Haines
Human Resources Director 6 N/A N/A N/A
Richard Andrew Hope
Finance Director 6 N/A N/A N/A
Douglas David Appleby
Non-executive Director 6 N/A 1 10
Edward William Dawnay 6 1 1 10
Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman
Peter Alan Thorburn 6 1 1 5*
Non-executive Director Chairman
* Although not physically present for five meetings due to his US location, Peter Thorburn participated in the minuted decisions via
telephone communication as permitted by the Company's Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Board is satisfied that he
demonstrates total commitment to his duties both within and beyond the formal framework of Board and committee meetings.