 TRIAD GROUP PLC  14 
 
 
Corporate governance report 
 
The Board has considered the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(2010) (the Code ) as set out in the Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules and applicable for 
this financial period. The following statement sets out the Group's application of the principles of the 
Code and the extent of compliance with the Code's provisions, made in accordance with the 
requirements of the Listing Rules. 
 
Board composition and structure 
 
At the date of this Report the Board has four members: the executive Chairman, one executive 
Director and two independent non-executive Directors.  
 
The Board exercise full and effective control of the Group. 
 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including 
responsibility for formulating, reviewing and approving Group strategy, budgets and major items of 
capital expenditure. 
 
Regularly the Board will consider and discuss matters which include, but are not limited to: 
 
  Strategy; 
  Financial performance and forecast; 
  Human resources; and 
  City and compliance matters. 
 
The Executive Chairman, John Rigg, is responsible for the leadership and efficient operation of the 
Board. This entails ensuring that Board meetings are held in an open manner, and allow sufficient 
time for agenda points to be discussed. It also entails the regular appraisal of each director, providing 
feedback and reviewing any training or development needs. 
 
The Board meets regularly with senior management to discuss operational matters. The Non-
Executive Directors must satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial 
controls and systems of risk management are robust. Following presentations by senior management 
and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, clear decisions on the policy or 
strategy are adopted. The responsibility for implementing Board decisions is delegated to 
management on a structured basis and monitored at subsequent meetings. 
 
During the period under review, and to date, the Executive Chairman has held, and continues to hold, 
no significant commitments outside the Group. 
 
Alistair Fulton is the nominated senior independent non-executive Director.  He has long standing 
industry experience. He is also free from any business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The Board benefits from this experience and 
independence, when he brings his individual judgement to Board decisions.  He has been a non-
executive Director for twelve years but the Board consider that he continues to remain independent 
for the reasons stated above. 
 
The Group has a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice in connection with 
the affairs of the Group and the discharge of their duties as Directors.  
 
The Executive Chairman and the non-executive Directors are subject to a notice period of one month. 
 
 
 
  TRIAD GROUP PLC  15 
 
 
Directors' training   
 
Any new Board members are made fully aware of their duties and responsibilities as Directors of 
listed companies, and are supported in understanding and applying these by established and more 
experienced Directors. Further training is available for any Director at the Group's expense should the 
Board consider it appropriate in the interests of the Group. 
 
 
Relations with shareholders 
 
Substantial time and effort is spent by Board members on meetings with and presentations to existing 
and prospective investors. The views of shareholders derived from such meetings are disseminated 
by the Chairman to other Board members. 
 
Private shareholders are invited to attend and participate at the Annual General Meeting. 
 
Audit Committee 
 
The Board has an Audit Committee, comprised of the Executive Chairman John Rigg, and the 
independent non-executive Directors, Alistair Fulton and Steven Sanderson.  The Committee is 
chaired by Alistair Fulton.  
 
The Board believe that John Rigg and Steven Sanderson, both Chartered Accountants with broad 
experience of the IT industry, and Alistair Fulton, who has been a Director of companies in the IT 
sector for over 20 years, have recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code. 
 
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group's annual and interim financial statements 
and other announcements.  It is also responsible for reviewing the Group's internal financial controls 
and its internal control and risk management systems. 
 
It considers the appointment and fees of external auditors, and discusses the audit scope and findings 
arising from audits. BDO LLP has confirmed to the Audit Committee that they remain independent 
and have maintained internal safeguards to ensure that the objectivity of the engagement partner and 
audit staff is not impaired.  
 
The Audit Committee has considered the level of non-audit fees and the nature of non-audit services 
provided and is satisfied that auditor independence has been maintained. 
 
The Committee is also responsible for assessing the Group's need for an internal audit function. 
 
Staff may contact the senior independent non-executive Director, in confidence, to raise genuine 
concerns of possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.  
 
Remuneration Committee 
 
The Board has a Remuneration Committee, comprised of the Executive Chairman John Rigg, and the 
independent non-executive Directors, Alistair Fulton and Steven Sanderson.  The Committee is 
chaired by Alistair Fulton.  
 
Its key role is to determine executive Directors' remuneration.  Details of how the aspects of the Code 
relating to Directors' remuneration are applied are disclosed in the Directors' Remuneration Report on 
page 18.  
 
Terms of reference 
 
The terms of reference of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are available on request from the 
Company Secretary.  TRIAD GROUP PLC  16 
 
 
 
 
Board attendance 
 
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board and Audit 
and Remuneration Committees during the year ended 31
 
March 2013 and shows that the Board are 
able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively. 
 
 
  
Board 
Audit         
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
    
Number of meetings held 
 
Number of meetings attended 
 
Executive Directors: 
10 1 1 
John Rigg (Chairman) 10 1 1 
Nick Burrows 10 n/a n/a 
    
Non-executive Directors:    
Alistair Fulton 10 1 1 
Steven Sanderson  10 - 1 
 
Accountability and audit 
 
Going concern 
 
After making appropriate inquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. See Directors' 
Report on page 8. 
 
Internal controls and risk management 
 
The Board has applied the internal control and risk management provisions of the Code by 
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group.  The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the 
year to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Revised 
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code. The Board is responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such a system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. 
 
In compliance with the Code, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group's 
systems of internal financial control and risk management. The Board's monitoring covers all controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.  It is based principally 
on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant weaknesses and risks are 
effectively managed and, if applicable, considering the need for more extensive monitoring.    
 
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.  This 
assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control and risk management arising during 
the period covered by the report. 
 
The key elements of the internal control and risk management systems are described below: 
  TRIAD GROUP PLC  17 
 
 
  Clearly documented procedures contained in a series of manuals covering Group operations 
and management, which are subject to internal project audit and external audit as well as 
regular Board review. 
 
  An appropriate budgeting process where the business prepares budgets for the coming year, 
which are approved by the Board. 
 
  Close involvement in the day to day management of the business by the executive Directors. 
 
  Regular meetings between the executive Chairman, executive Director and senior managers 
to discuss and monitor potential risks to the business, and to implement mitigation plans to 
address them.  
 
 
The Audit Committee has considered the need for a separate internal audit function this year but does 
not consider it appropriate in view of the above controls, and in light of the size of the Group. The 
Group is certified to ISO 9001: 2008. 
 
Statement of compliance 
 
The Board considers that it has been compliant with the provisions of the Code for the whole of the 
period, except as detailed below: 
 
A.2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the same 
individual. Triad's former Chief Executive, Ian Haynes, resigned as a director on 
19 November 2010. There are currently no plans to recruit a replacement, given 
the need to minimise costs in the current environment. Moreover, the duties are 
being satisfactorily covered by members of the Executive Board and the Group's 
senior management. John Rigg is the Executive Chairman.  
B2.1/2.4  There should be a nominations committee which should lead the process for 
board appointments and make recommendations to the board.  The Board 
considers that because of its size, the whole Board should be involved in Board 
appointments. 
B.6 The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its committees and individual directors. There is a 
process of continuous informal evaluation, due to the small size of the Board. 
B.2.3 
 
 
 
 
B.7.1 
Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to re-
election.  Although not appointed for fixed terms, Non-executive Directors are 
subject to re-election in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association at 
the Annual General Meeting.  Their contracts are subject to a notice period that 
does not exceed one month.  
Non-executive directors who have served longer than nine years should be 
subject to annual re-election. The Board consider that because of its size, re-
election by rotation in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association at 
the Annual General Meeting is sufficient. 
 
By order of the Board 
 
 
 
 
 
NE Burrows 
Company Secretary 
13 June 2013 
  