 The Group has, since admission to AIM in December 2001, applied principles of corporate governance commensurate with its size.
Directors
The Directors support the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Group. The Board is responsible for approving
the Group's policy and strategy. It meets on a regular basis and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
Management supply the Board with appropriate and timely information and the Directors are free to seek any further information
they consider necessary. All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advice at
the Company's expense.
The Board consists of three executive Directors, who hold the key operational positions in the Group and three non-executive
Directors, who bring a breadth of experience and knowledge. This provides a balance whereby the Board's decision making 
cannot be dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the Board is N C Paul and the other non-executive directors are R Allsop
and J Rubins. The Board approve the strategic decisions of the Group. The Group's business is run on a day to day basis by 
S W Cooper, M I Welburn and N Silverthorne with S W Cooper having overall responsibility as the Chief Executive.
Relations with shareholders
The Group values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and performance. The Annual
General Meeting will be used to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. The Directors will be
available to answer questions. Separate resolutions will be proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration
and there will be a resolution to approve the annual report and accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's
assets and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An audit committee has been established comprising the non-executive Directors, chaired by N C Paul, which will meet at least
twice per annum and is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported
on as well as meeting the auditors and reviewing any reports from the auditors regarding accounts and internal control systems.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the Group does not justify it at
present. However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The key features of the Group's system of internal control are as follows:
- the Group is headed by an effective Board, which leads and controls the Group;
- there is a clear division of responsibilities in running the Board and running the Group's business;
- the Board includes a balance of executive and non-executive Directors; and
- the Board receives and reviews on a timely basis financial and operating information appropriate to be able to discharge its duties.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
International financial reporting standards (IFRS )
The Board acknowledges that the London Stock Exchange (LSE) issued revised AIM rules in December 2005, which allows AIM
companies to continue to prepare their annual audited accounts in accordance with UK GAAP or IFRS. The Board is also aware
that the LSE have indicated that it will require AIM listed companies to use IFRS for accounting periods commencing on or after 
1 January 2007 and the Board will keep this matter under review.
Directors' remuneration
The Board recognises that Directors' remuneration is of legitimate concern to the shareholders and is committed to following
current best practice. The Group operates within a competitive environment, performance depends on the individual contributions
of the Directors and employees and it believes in rewarding vision and innovation.
Tricorn Group plc - Report & Accounts 2006
Corporate Governance
6
26966 pre  11/8/06  12:24 pm  Page 6 Policy on executive directors' remuneration
Detail of individual Directors' remuneration is set out in note 2 to the financial statements. The policy of the Board is to provide
executive remuneration packages designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the calibre necessary to maintain the
Group's position and to reward them for enhancing shareholder value and return. It aims to provide sufficient levels of
remuneration to do this, but to avoid paying more than is necessary and reflects the Directors' responsibilities. A separate
remuneration committee has been established comprising the non-executive Directors and is chaired by N C Paul.
Basic annual salary
The Remuneration Committee reviews each Executive Director's basic salary annually. In deciding upon appropriate levels of
remuneration the Board believes that the Group should offer levels of base pay reflecting individual responsibilities and
commensurate with similar jobs in other business sectors.
Annual bonus payments, benefits and pension arrangements
N Silverthorne shares in a performance related bonus arrangement within Malvern Tubular Components Limited. M I Welburn
receives a performance related bonus through Tricorn Group plc.
M I Welburn and N Silverthorne benefit from the provision of private medical insurance.
M I Welburn and N Silverthorne benefit from the provision of company cars.
M I Welburn and N Silverthorne participate in a contributory pension scheme.
S W Cooper receives no benefits in kind.
R Allsop receives no benefits in kind.
N C Paul receives no benefits in kind.
J Rubins receives no benefits in kind.
Notice periods
S W Cooper, M I Welburn, N Silverthorne and R Allsop have service agreements with the Group which are terminable on not less
than 12 months notice given by either party to the other at any time.
N C Paul and J Rubins have letters of appointment with the Company which are terminable upon 6 months' written notice being
given by either party.
Share option incentives
The Company has adopted a number of individual unapproved and enterprise management scheme share option agreements to
motivate and retain key personnel of the Group.
At 31 March 2006, the following options were held by the Directors:
At beginning Lapsed during At end Exercise 
of period the year of period price
Number Number Number  
Unapproved share options
N C Paul 200,000 - 200,000 0.30
J Rubins 100,000 - 100,000 0.30
R Allsop 600,000 (600,000) - 0.20
Enterprise management scheme (EMI) options
S W Cooper 1,000,000 - 1,000,000 0.10
M I Welburn 750,000 - 750,000 0.10
N Silverthorne 200,000 - 200,000 0.10
N Silverthorne 150,000 - 150,000 0.20
N C Paul's and J Rubins' options are exercisable between 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2009.
R Allsop's options which were granted on 23 June 1998 were exercisable between 2 and 7 years after that date, and have
therefore lapsed during the year.
Tricorn Group plc - Report & Accounts 2006
7
26966 pre  10/8/06  12:47 pm  Page 7 No performance conditions apply to these unapproved share options.
The approved share options for S W Cooper and M I Welburn were implemented on 1 November 2004.
S W Cooper's EMI share options are to be exercisable in tranches. The first option over 500,000 ordinary shares are to be
exercisable before 31 October 2014 at a price of 10p per share with no performance conditions attached. The second option
over 250,000 shares are to be exercisable at 10p per share once the mid-market price has been maintained at 20p per share for
ten consecutive working days. The third option over 250,000 shares are to be exercisable at 10p per share once the mid-market
price has been maintained at 30p per share for ten consecutive working days. All subsequent share disposals are to be limited 
to one third of the option in any given year without prior Board approval.
M I Welburn has two separate EMI share options. The first option is over 500,000 ordinary shares which are exercisable at 
10p per share after 12 months continuous employment and will remain in force for ten years. The second option over 
250,000 shares is to be exercisable at 10p per share once the mid-market price has been maintained at 20p per share for 
ten consecutive working days. All subsequent share disposals will be limited to one third of the option in any given year without
prior Board approval.
N Silverthorne was granted an EMI option on his appointment as a director of the Company, effective 1 December 2004.
This option is over 200,000 ordinary 10p shares and will remain in force for ten years. He also had 150,000 EMI options prior 
to his appointment as a director which are exercisable at 20p per share. None of the options have performance conditions
attached to them.
The exercise periods for share options were set by the Remuneration Committee in order to incentivise and retain key executives.
The market price of the Company's shares at 31 March 2006 was 16.0p and the range during the year was 10.00p to 18.25p.
Tricorn Group plc - Report & Accounts 2006
Corporate Governance continued
8
26966 pre  10/8/06  12:47 pm  Page 8