 20507.04   30/06/11   Proof 6
56
Trifast plc  Annual Report 2011  
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance 
With exceptions as highlighted below, the Company complied with the 
provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (as amended) (the 
Combined Code ).
The Board acknowledges Malcolm Diamond is a non-independent Executive 
Chairman which does not comply with the requirements of section A.2.2 
of the Combined Code. However the Board believe that given Mr Diamond 
sits as Chairman and as a Non Executive in other companies, his experience 
from these appointments and his previous knowledge of Trifast is invaluable 
and can best be delivered through the position of Chairman.
The Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code, 
including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by 
complying with the Code as reported above. Further explanation of how 
the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below 
and in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
The structure of the Board and its standing committees are as follows:
The Board
Currently the Board consists of five Executive Directors, two Independent 
Non Executive Directors and a Chairman. The Non Executive Directors are 
considered to be independent of management and free from any business 
or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement for the purposes of the Code. The Chairman who 
is an Executive Chairman is not considered by the Board to be independent.
The appointment, replacement and powers of the Directors are governed 
by the Company's Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the 
Companies Act, prevailing legislation and resolutions passed at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) or other general meetings of the Company.
The Senior Independent Non Executive Director is Neil Chapman who was 
chosen due to his Executive Board experience with other companies.
All Independent Non Executive Directors have the authority to meet with 
shareholders without first seeking approval from the Chief Executive or  
the Chairman. 
The Board met nine times during the period with attendance as follows:
J C Barker 9
G P Budd 9
M M Diamond 9
N S Chapman 9
J Shearman 9
M R Belton (appointed 16 June 2010) 7
S V Murphy (appointed 16 June 2010) 7
G C Roberts (appointed 16 June 2010) 7
Upon appointment the Directors are required to seek election at the 
first AGM following appointment. All Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years.
The Company has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive. The 
Chairman leads the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for the 
management of the Company, implementing policies and strategies 
determined by the Board. 
The Independent Non Executive Directors have full access to the external 
auditors and to management and there is a formal procedure for Directors 
to obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties 
should this be necessary. All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary.
Appropriate and relevant training is provided to the Directors as and when 
required.
The Board meets a minimum of five times a year, and is supplied as early as 
practical with an agenda and appropriate papers. Further ad-hoc meetings 
of the Board are held as and when required. Directors are appointed by the 
Board on recommendation from the Nominations Committee. The Board 
monitors the financial performance of the Group, and approves and reviews 
major projects and acquisitions. The Board has formally adopted a schedule 
of matters which are reserved to the Board for decision, thus ensuring that 
it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisation and 
compliance issues.
The Board undertakes annual evaluation of its own performance and that 
of its Committees using questionnaires and continues to train and evaluate 
Senior Managers below Board level in order to maintain its continuous 
succession policy.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, as 
described below:
The audit Committee
The Audit Committee's principal responsibilities are to assist the Board in 
reviewing and approving the company's financial statements including 
any significant financial judgments contained therein, monitoring the 
company's internal financial control and risk management systems and 
making recommendations to the Board with regard to the appointment and 
remuneration of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee's terms of reference include all matters indicated by 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Combined Code.
It is Group policy to ensure auditor independence by carefully considering 
any non-audit work carried out by the auditors.  57
20507.04   30/06/11   Proof 6
57
Governance
The Audit Committee comprises entirely of the Independent Non Executive 
Directors. It is chaired by Neil Chapman and has met three times in the year. 
During the period the Committee felt that, given the size of the Group, it 
was valuable having the Chairman, CEO and CFO attending the committee 
meetings. The external auditor also normally attends meetings. In addition 
there is at least one meeting a year where the Audit Committee meets the 
external auditors without executive management present.
The Committee is considered to be adequately qualified. The Chairman, a 
Fellow of the ICAEW was previously the senior partner of KPMG's South-
East operation and now works in industry as a Group Finance Director.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Independent Non Executive 
Directors and is chaired by Jonathan Shearman. The Committee meets as 
required during the year to review and determine the terms and conditions 
of employment of the Executive Directors and senior management, 
including levels of remuneration and other benefits. During the period, the 
Committee met on five occasions.
The nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the Independent Non Executive 
Directors, the Chief Executive and the Chairman, and meets at least once 
a year. It is chaired by Neil Chapman, as Senior Independent Non Executive 
Director. The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Board structure, 
size and composition, and for nominating candidates for Executive and Non 
Executive positions. It will also ensure that any newly appointed Director 
receives a full and proper induction into the Company's affairs.
Shareholder relations
The Group has a website www.trifast.com, which is regularly updated 
to ensure that shareholders are fully aware of the Group's activities. The 
Group's Registrar, Computershare, is also linked to the Trifast website and 
offers services for the shareholders.
The Group also works with City Specialists to ensure all levels of 
Shareholders receive Trifast information, such as:
Arden Partners - Institutions
Citigate - Press, Analysts and Private Client Brokers
Edison - Analyst information available via the TR website
The members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
will normally be available to speak to shareholders at the AGM. In addition, 
shareholders can contact them at any time by writing to Trifast plc, Trifast 
House, Bellbrook Park, Uckfield TN22 1QW.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Further information is given in the Basis of Preparation, 
note 1. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Internal control 
The Combined Code requires that Directors review the effectiveness of the 
Group's system of internal controls which includes controls over financial, 
operational, compliance and risk management. The Audit Committee has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and reported its 
positive conclusions to the Board.
In addition, the Board takes required account of the significance of social, 
environmental and ethical matters in regard to the business of the Group 
and seeks to take an ethical view of its responsibilities in providing business 
opportunities. 
Our Corporate Social Responsibility Statement can be found on our 
website, www.trifast.com.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's controls. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure in 
order to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss regarding:
  l The safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition.
  l The maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of 
financial information used within the business or for publication.
  l The key elements of the system are as follows:
  l Full detailed reviews of the business risks undertaken as part of the  
on-going day-to-day procedures of the business.
  l An organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility 
and delegation of authority.
  l Group policies for financial reporting, accounting, financial risk 
management, information security, capital expenditure appraisal and 
Corporate Governance are all well documented.
  l Detailed annual budgets and rolling forecasts are prepared for all 
operating units and reviewed/approved by the Board.
  l Performance against budget is monitored closely and material variances 
are reported to the Board on a monthly basis. Rolling forecasts are 
updated quarterly and reviewed accordingly. 20507.04   30/06/11   Proof 6
58
Trifast plc  Annual Report 2011  
Corporate Governance
continued
  l The control system is operated with the full co-operation of all Company 
Directors. Risk assessments are done at all levels from local divisional 
right up to the Main Board with the summaries all being fed up to the 
Main Board for review.
  l The Audit Committee deals with any significant control issues raised by 
the external auditors.
  l Well structured reporting lines to the Board. There is a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
  l Investment approval, controlled by the budgetary process with 
authorisation levels in place. Any single capital expenditure over 
 20,000 goes to the Board with detailed written proposals and financial 
analysis of expected returns.
A formalised internal review process  Health Check' has been set up to 
routinely review the operational and financial controls within the Group. 
These reviews are conducted by senior personnel who are independent 
from the entity which is under review. Whilst the Board recognises that this 
does not constitute a fully independent internal audit function, it believes 
that due to the size of the Group, this process provides appropriate comfort 
as to the operational and financial controls in place. 
The Board and Audit Committee continually review the effectiveness of the 
Group's internal control systems. No significant failings or weaknesses were 
identified as a result of this review process. As such, the Board and Audit 
Committee are comfortable that they meet the requirements of the Turnbull 
Report.