 Committee member
Member  
throughout 2011
Number of 
meetings attended
David Williams 
(Chair)
 4
Tutu Agyare 4
David Bamford
1
 4
Ann Grant 4
Steven McTiernan 4
Clare Spottiswoode To 12 May 2011 1
SimonThompson
2 
 2
1 Ceased as a member of the Committee on 17 January 2012.
2  Ceased as a member of the Committee on appointment as Chairman  
of the Company on 1 January 2012.
Main responsibilities
 Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements  
and formal announcements relating to the Group's  
financial performance;
 Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and 
accounting policies and disclosures in financial reports;
 Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal control 
procedures and risk management systems;
 Considering how the Group's internal audit requirements 
shall be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board;
 Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment 
or re-appointment of the Group's external auditors;
 Overseeing the Board's relationship with the external 
auditors and, where appropriate, the selection of new 
external auditors; and
 Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure  
is in place.
The Audit Committee terms of reference can be accessed  
via the corporate website. The Board approved the terms of 
reference in December 2011. The Committee fully discharged 
these responsibilities during the year.
Governance
David Williams, who is Chairman of the Committee, is a 
Chartered Accountant and until his retirement in 2006 was 
finance director of Bunzl plc. It is a requirement of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee 
member has recent and relevant financial experience.  
David Williams therefore meets this requirement. 
The Group's external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the 
Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit 
services they provide to the Group. Non-audit services are 
normally limited to assignments that are closely related to  
the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a 
detailed understanding of the Group is necessary. A policy for 
the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit 
services is in place to formalise these arrangements which 
requires Audit Committee approval for certain categories of 
work. This policy has been reviewed and updated in line with 
updated Audit Practice Board Ethical Standards and FRC 
Guidance to Audit Committees, and is available on the 
corporate website. 
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect 
of audit and non-audit work is included in note 5 to the financial 
statements. In addition to processes put in place to ensure 
segregation of audit and non-audit roles, Deloitte LLP are 
required as part of the assurance process in relation to the 
audit, to confirm to the Committee that they have both the 
appropriate independence and the objectivity to allow them  
to continue to serve the members of the Company. This 
confirmation was given and no matters of concern were 
identified by the Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, 
the General Manager Finance, the Deputy Company Secretary 
and representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend 
each meeting of the Committee and participated in all of the 
meetings during 2011. The Chairman of the Board also attends 
meetings of the Committee by invitation and was present at all 
of the meetings in 2011. The external auditors have unrestricted 
access to the Committee Chairman. 
During the 2011 audit process, the Audit Committee Chairman 
met with Deloitte's audit engagement partner without the 
presence of management.
Meetings
In 2011, the Audit Committee met on four occasions. Meetings 
are scheduled to allow sufficient time to enable full discussion 
of key topics. The key work undertaken by the Committee was 
as follows:
Consideration and review of full-year and half-yearly results
 The Committee met with the external auditors as a part of 
the full-year and half-yearly accounts approval process.
 During this exercise the Committee considered the most 
appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or 
judgemental matters identified during the audit or half-
yearly review, as well as any recommendations or 
observations made by the external auditors.
David Williams, Committee Chairman
 The Committee met on  
four occasions and fully 
discharged its main 
responsibilities  
during the year. 
84
Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
Audit Committee report Audit planning and update on relevant accounting developments
 The Group prepares financial statements under 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The 
adoption of new and revised Standards and Interpretations 
during 2011 and their impact on the financial statements 
are described in the accounting policies commencing on 
page 118.
 The Audit Committee approved the scope of the work to  
be undertaken by the external auditors for half-year and 
year-end statutory audits.
Consideration and approval of the risk management 
framework, annual Internal Audit Plan, internal audit 
resources and periodic reports from Internal Audit 
 The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access and 
responsibility to the Audit Committee. His main 
responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the 
Group's overall control environment, operating efficiency 
and risk identification and management at operating, 
regional and corporate levels. In fulfilling his role, the Group 
Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Committee 
without reference to Executive Management. During 2011, 
the Group Internal Audit Manager met with the Audit 
Committee Chairman without the presence of management 
to discuss the planning of Audit Committee meetings and to 
brief him on the results of audits completed. The Group 
Internal Audit Manager also supported the development of 
Audit Committee meeting agendas with the Chairman with 
input from the CFO and General Manager Finance.
 The Committee approved the programme of 2011 internal 
audit work aimed at addressing both financial and overall 
risk management objectives identified within the Group.  
31 internal audit reviews were undertaken during 2011, 
covering a range of financial and business processes in  
the Group's main business units in London and Dublin,  
the main operational locations in Ghana and Uganda, as  
well as a review of the new Kenya operations. Detailed 
results from these reviews were reported to management 
and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year. 
Recommendations made as a result of the work of Internal 
Audit are tracked for timely implementation and reported to 
the Audit Committee periodically. No significant weaknesses 
were identified as a result of risk management and internal 
controls reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during 2011. 
The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated 
joint ventures under the supervision of business unit 
management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
 In addition, the Committee oversees the work of the 
independent reserves auditors ERC and the arrangements 
in place for managing Information Technology risk relating 
to the Group's critical information systems.
 The Group Tax Manager also provided an update to the  
Audit Committee on tax processes and controls established 
to mitigate operational and strategic tax risks.
Review of the whistle-blowing arrangements
In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to the 
highest ethical standards, an independent whistle-blowing 
procedure has been in operation during the year to allow  
staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business 
practices. This procedure complements the established  
internal reporting process. The whistle-blowing policy is 
included in the revised Code of Business Conduct which is 
available on the corporate website. The Committee considers 
the whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate for the size 
and scale of the Group.
Review the Audit Committee terms of reference 
 The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during  
the year. These are in line with the best practice guidance. 
Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee 
 During the year, the Audit Committee completed a review of 
the effectiveness of external audit, internal audit and of the 
Audit Committee itself. This was conducted through a series 
of questionnaires. Internal Audit coordinated the review. The 
review also incorporated the results of the Board evaluation 
with the combined results presented to the members of the 
Audit Committee. The Committee was considered to be 
operating effectively and in accordance with the guidance 
recommended by the Smith Committee included in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
 The Internal Audit team was further strengthened through 
the recruitment of additional resources and the adoption  
of updated procedures to enhance audit processes.
 In addition to the questionnaire-based review of 
effectiveness, the Audit Committee also assessed the 
qualification, expertise and resources, and independence  
of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit 
process. This covered all aspects of the audit service 
provided by Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a report on  
the audit firm's own internal quality control procedures  
and consideration of audit firms' annual transparency 
reports in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
The Audit Committee also approved the external audit  
terms of engagement and remuneration. As a result  
of these reviews, the Audit Committee considered the 
external audit process to be operating effectively.
 The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Audit 
Committee should have primary responsibility for making a 
recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment or 
removal of the external auditors. On the basis of the review  
of external audit effectiveness, the Committee recommended 
to the Board that it recommends to shareholders the 
re-appointment of the auditors at the 2012 AGM.
85
www.tullowoil.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
4