 25
Corporate Governance
Compliance statement
The Company has complied with the Combined Code as
applicable to the Company for the period from 1 April
2003 to 31 March 2004. With effect from 1 April 2004
the revised Combined Code incorporating principles from
the Higgs and Smith reports will be applicable to the
Company. It expects to comply with the revised
Combined Code and will report fully on how it 
complied next year.
Board of Directors
The Board had six or seven members during the year 
and currently has seven, comprising the Chairman, Chief
Executive, Finance Director and four Non-executive
Directors. All of the Non-executive Directors are
considered  independent' within the meaning of the
Combined Code and the Chairman was  independent' 
on appointment. Non-executive Directors are generally
appointed for a one-year term ending at the close of 
the AGM each year. This policy is changing with regard 
to new appointments and Martin George was appointed 
in 2003 for three years.
The biographical details of the Board members are 
set out on page 22. The Non-executive Directors have all
occupied, or occupy, senior positions in business and/or
government and/or have substantial experience in business.
All Directors must stand for election at the first AGM
after they are appointed. The Articles provide that one-
third of the Directors must be re-elected or stand down
each year and all Directors will stand for re-election at
least every three years.
The Board is responsible for the proper management 
of the Company. The Board normally meets nine times a
year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it
for decision making, including the approval of annual and
interim results, annual budgets, strategy plans, acquisitions
and disposals, material agreements and major capital
commitments.
Board members are given appropriate documentation 
in advance of each Board or Committee meeting. These
normally include a detailed report on current and forecast
trading and full papers on matters where the Board 
will be required to make a decision or give its approval. 
In addition to business presentations, reports are given 
to the Board or its Committees at appropriate intervals 
on such matters as pensions, insurance, environment,
health and safety, and treasury. 
The Board has approved an agreed procedure for
Directors to take independent professional advice, if
necessary, at the Company's expense. In addition, the
Directors have direct access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary who is charged by the Board
with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the
Board as a whole.
On joining the Board, Directors are given an induction
programme including meetings with management together
with current information and background documents
describing the Company and its activities. Manuals, books
and training are available to all Directors on their duties 
as Directors and individual members attend external
courses on subjects they wish to improve. Site visits take
place periodically. Papers are presented to Board members
on such subjects as accounting or regulatory changes
where appropriate. 
The differing roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
are acknowledged. The Chairman's role is part-time and 
he is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board
and for ensuring that its strategic and supervisory role is
achieved. The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-
to-day running of the business, preparing the strategy and
budgets for Board review and then carrying out the agreed
strategy and implementing specific Board decisions
relating to the operation of the Company. The senior
Non-executive Director is the Rt. Hon. Lord MacGregor.
The Board has carried out a review of its own
effectiveness and will in future do so annually.
There are Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees of the Board to which relevant matters 
are delegated. Membership of the Committees is set 
out on page 22. All members of the Committees served
throughout the whole year, except Martin George who
served on the Audit and Remuneration Committees from
joining the Board in October 2003. The Committees all
have terms of reference, brief details of which are set 
out as follows: 26 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2004
The Nomination Committee is responsible for
considering and recommending to the Board persons 
who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and
Non-executive Directors. Appointment is the
responsibility of the whole Board following
recommendation from the Committee. The Committee
also reviews succession planning and senior management
appointments below board level. The Chairman is
Chairman of the Committee. It meets as necessary and
uses the services of outside personnel consultants to 
assist it when appropriate. The Chief Executive, who is a
member of the Committee, can make recommendations
to it. From time to time a subset of the Nomination
Committee will be selected for a specific purpose such 
as selection or reappointment of the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee. Full details of the
Committee's membership, terms of reference and
activities are set out in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 28 to 33.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing various
financial and audit matters including the scope of the
external audit and annual programme of internal control
reviews. Margaret Young is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee reviews the full year and half year
financial statements before they are presented to the
Board, agrees audit plans, reviews the annual audit
highlights memorandum, receives reports on internal
controls and deals with any significant control issues
arising. It is a specific responsibility of the Audit
Committee to ensure that an appropriate relationship 
is maintained between the Company and its Auditors. 
The Committee must approve in advance all items of 
non-audit work to be carried out by KPMG in excess 
of  50,000.
Other Committees are appointed from time to time to
consider specific matters such as acquisitions or disposals
or major capital expenditure. 
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 33 details
compliance with the Combined Code's requirements 
with regard to remuneration matters.
Shareholder relations
The Company seeks to maintain good communications
with shareholders. Senior executives, including the Chief
Executive and Finance Director, have dialogue with
individual institutional shareholders and twice a year give
a collective, general presentation covering the interim and
preliminary results. The Chairman and other Directors are
available as appropriate for meetings. The Chairman and
Secretary generally deal with questions from individual
shareholders. All shareholders have the opportunity to 
put questions at the Company's Annual General Meeting
when the Chairman gives a statement on the Company's
performance during the year, together with a statement
on current trading conditions. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees normally
attend the AGM and the Chairman advises shareholders
on the proxy voting details. 
Internal controls, risk management and audit
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's 
risk management and internal control systems and for
reviewing their effectiveness. The systems are designed 
to provide reasonable control over the activities of the
Company and the Group and to enable the Board to
comply with the Directors' responsibility statement on
page 24. This process has remained in place throughout
the financial year and to the date of these financial
statements. However, it is recognised that it is the nature
of any business that risk is inherent in any enterprise and
that business and commercial risks must be taken and 
that for a business to succeed, enterprise, initiative and
motivation are key elements which must not be unduly
stifled. It is not the intention of the Company to seek 
to avoid all risks and commercial judgements and other
decisions will have to be made in the course of
management of the business which will give rise to risk.
Corporate Governance 27
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the
requirements of the Combined Code, it has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control. The key
elements of the Group's internal control systems and the
review process are as follows:
- The Group has an organisational structure with
established lines of accountability as well as clearly
defined levels of authority as to matters which are
reserved to the Board and the delegation of other
matters to Board Committees or the Group's executive
management. Each part of the business is required to
operate in accordance with established policies and
procedures. Guidelines or mandatory requirements are
published on various specific issues such as treasury 
and authorisation limits, accounting policies, Directors'
dealings, ethical conduct and  whistleblowing'.
- Comprehensive business planning and financial 
reporting procedures are in place, including the annual
preparation of detailed operational budgets for the 
year ahead and projections for subsequent years. Each
business area reports monthly on its performance
against its agreed budget. The Board receives monthly
an update on such performance and generally reviews
significant variances on a monthly or bi-monthly basis.
- Procedures have been established for planning, approving
and monitoring major capital expenditure and major
projects. The Group has a centralised treasury function,
which operates within defined limits and subject to
regular reporting requirements and audit reviews.
- An embedded risk management process is in place,
which seeks to identify the most significant risks facing
each business and the Group and reports on how those
risks are being managed. This process requires the
business divisions to produce risk registers identifying
and evaluating significant risks which may affect their
business and to consider what action should reasonably
and cost effectively be taken to reduce them to 
an acceptable level. The process culminates in the
production of a Group risk register including a review 
of significant central risks. This register and the divisional
action plans for addressing risk are reviewed and
maintained on an ongoing basis. Progress is monitored 
at least half yearly by the executive team and the Board. 
- There is an internal audit process which is used to help
monitor controls and risk assessments. The Group does
not have its own internal audit department but uses
dedicated resource supplied by KPMG LLP to carry out
internal control reviews. This programme of internal
control reviews is set by the Audit Committee following
review with the Finance Director. In setting this
programme the Audit Committee takes account of the
results of the Group's self assessment process. From
time to time ad hoc assignments requested by senior
executives or the Audit Committee are undertaken.
The External Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, audits the year end 
results. Their Audit Report is on page 58 of this Annual
Report. They also conduct a review of the half year results. 
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the Group's budget 
for 2004/05 and the Group's profit and cash flow
projections for subsequent periods and are satisfied 
that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts on a 
going concern basis.