 27
UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA
ANNUAL REPORT 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE
This report describes the manner in which the board has applied the principles of the Combined Code on corporate governance which is appended to the
listing rules of the Financial Services Authority. The board considers that during 2002 the company complied fully with the provisions of Section 1 of the
Combined Code. The company has complied with the internal control provisions by establishing the procedures necessary to implement the guidance
issued in September 1999 (the Turnbull Committee report) and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
THE BOARD
Under the company's articles of association, at each annual general meeting any director then in office who has been appointed by the board since the
previous annual general meeting and any director who at the date of the notice convening the annual general meeting had held office for more than 30
months since he was last appointed or re-appointed by the company in general meeting shall retire from office, but is eligible for re-appointment.
During the greater part of 2002 there were eleven board members in total, comprising the chairman (part time), chief executive, three other executives and
six non-executive directors. That number was reduced to ten following the retirement of the chairman, Sir Ronald Hampel, on 5 November 2002. Sir Ronald
was succeeded as chairman by Geoff Unwin, who has served as a non-executive director of the company since 1996 and previously chaired the audit
committee. The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate, and the board has nominated John Botts as the senior independent non-executive
director. The board receives regular written reports from all executive directors; the chief executive reports principally on matters of strategy and
development, the chief operating officer provides detailed reports on the day to day operations of the group's businesses, the chief financial officer reports
on accounting, treasury and tax matters, and reports are also received from the executive director responsible for the group's investments.
The primary function of the board is to set the group's strategy and to oversee the effective implementation of that strategy. Scheduled board meetings take
place approximately seven times a year, with additional meetings being convened if circumstances require. There is an established agenda of items to be
considered at the board meeting and the board also receives presentations from executive directors and from divisional management and other senior
executives on specific issues. The chairman meets separately with the chief executive on a regular basis and other informal meetings and discussions take
place between directors as appropriate.
The board has three principal committees, all of which have written terms of reference. Details of these committees are as follows:-
The audit committee was chaired by Geoff Unwin until November 2002 and its other members were John Botts, Sir Ronald Hampel and Adair Turner.
Following Sir Ronald Hampel's retirement another non-executive director, Jonathan Newcomb, was appointed as a member of the committee and Adair
Turner was appointed chairman of the committee. All members of the committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the company to be
independent. The committee meets at least four times a year. Meetings are also attended by the chief financial officer, deputy CFO, head of internal audit,
company secretary and external auditors. The audit committee's terms of reference were reviewed during the year in the light of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002, US legislation introduced in July 2002 to which the company is subject by virtue of the listing of its ordinary shares on NASDAQ in the form of
American Depositary Receipts. The committee now has authority to appoint, review and remunerate the external auditors and to pre-approve their
engagement for both audit and non audit services; it also reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors and reviews the group's accounting
procedures and financial control environment. The committee has established policy guidelines on the nature of non audit work which may be undertaken
by the auditors. These guidelines identify a number of categories of work where the auditors will not be employed, including financial due diligence
assignments on potential acquisitions and financial systems consultancy. The committee has also put in place procedures for the pre approval of any fees
payable to the auditors for those non audit services which fall within the policy guidelines.
It is the company's policy to review its external audit arrangements every five years; during the year the committee carried out such a review, as a result of
which Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as auditors to the company in May 2002.
The remuneration committee is chaired by John Botts and its other members are Sir Ronald Hampel (until November 2002), Jonathan Newcomb,
Christopher Powell, Adair Turner, Geoff Unwin and Fields Wicker-Miurin. All members of the committee are non-executive directors and are considered by
the company to be independent. Further details of the committee's activities are set out in the directors' remuneration report on page 18. The company
was among the first to invite its shareholders to vote on its remuneration policy in 1998 and has done so at all subsequent annual general meetings. In
accordance with the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which have now come into effect, shareholders will be given the opportunity at this
year's annual general meeting to vote on the remuneration report as a whole.
The nomination committee was chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel until November 2002 and is now chaired by Geoff Unwin. Its other members are Clive
Hollick and John Botts. The committee meets as required to review the structure, size and composition of the board and to identify candidates, both
executive and non-executive, whose skills and experience are considered to be of value to the company.
In addition to the principal committees the finance committee, comprising any two directors to include at least one of the chief executive and chief financial
officer, approves and facilitates the group's treasury and financial operations within limits established by the board. The company secretary acts as secretary
to all the above committees.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The directors believe that effective corporate governance is strengthened by the presence of a strong independent element on the board. Of the ten board
members, 60 per cent (including the chairman) are non-executive directors; all are considered by the company to be independent. Biographies of all of the
directors currently in office are set out on pages 16 and 17, and illustrate the range of experience of directors.
The board is considering the recommendations of the Higgs report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors which was published in January
2003, and will review its procedures in the light of those recommendations. 28
UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA
ANNUAL REPORT 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The company considers its annual and interim reports to be of primary importance in keeping shareholders informed about the activities and progress of the
group. In addition to these reports the company also provides updated trading information prior to the start of each close period. Financial and other
information about the company is published on its website, which has links to the websites of other businesses in the group.
The company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional shareholders by means of meetings and presentations as appropriate. Consultation
is undertaken with the ABI and other bodies representing shareholders' interests on matters which the company considers appropriate. All shareholders are
welcome at the annual general meeting where they have the opportunity to ask questions of all the directors, including the chairman as well as the
chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board is responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems. The
system is intended to enable the group to identify and manage the risks inherent in its business and accordingly can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the group, which has been
in place during the year and continues in force. This process accords with the Turnbull guidance issued in September 1999 and is regularly reviewed by the
board. The process aims to identify and evaluate risks which are specific to each of its businesses; it is undertaken at a divisional level and the results co-
ordinated and reviewed by the audit committee. The board reviews the effectiveness of the group's system of internal control by means of regular reports
from management and from independent monitoring functions as described below.
Day to day management of the group's businesses is delegated to the chief executive and the executive directors within the financial and strategic
objectives for the group as approved by the board. The chief executives of the individual businesses are accountable for the conduct and performance of
their division within the agreed strategy and they are authorised to act in accordance with the system of delegated authorities which is monitored by the
internal audit department and reviewed periodically by the board.
Individual businesses are responsible for complying with the group's financial reporting system which includes a comprehensive budgeting and financial
reporting mechanism, providing monthly trading results, balance sheet and cash flow statements recorded against corresponding figures for the budget and
the previous year. This information is reported regularly to the board in the form of management accounts. Individual businesses are also responsible for
compliance with certain group policies and guidelines set out in the group's financial policies and procedures manual and the group policy manual.
The internal audit department undertakes periodic reviews of individual businesses to assess their control status. Internal and external audit report to the
board on significant exceptions and internal audit follow up on these until they are resolved.