 Universe Group plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Stock code: UNG
12
www.universeplc.com
Corporate Governance Report
The Board is accountable to the Company's Shareholders 
for good governance and this statement describes how the 
principles of good corporate governance are applied by 
the Company.
The Company is not required to comply with Schedule 8 of 
the Companies Act 2006 or the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority as its shares are traded on AIM; the following 
disclosures are therefore made on a voluntary basis.
The Group complies voluntarily with many of the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code as described in this 
statement and consequently, this report is intended to highlight 
the key areas with which the Group complies but is not a report 
on the Group's compliance with the whole code.
   The Board
As at the date of signing of these accounts, the Board has two 
Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors; including 
the Chairman.
   Role of the Board
During the year, Board meetings were held each month except 
August and each Director serving at the time attended each 
Board meeting; with the exception of Mr Coster who, for personal 
reasons was unable to do so on two occasions.
At the monthly Board meetings, the CEO reports on the overall 
financial performance for the previous month, business 
development, technical, commercial and health & safety 
matters. The Finance Director reports in detail on the financial 
performance and any secretarial matters. Other business 
is conducted after these regular reports. Minutes of Board 
committee meetings held since the previous formal Board 
meeting are received and decisions made by those committees 
are ratified.
Whilst the bulk of the formulation of budgets and strategy is 
undertaken by the Executive Directors, this is done against a 
framework set by the whole of the Board, challenged by the 
Board and finally approved by it.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. 
This includes the setting of high level targets, approval of 
budgets, capital expenditure and major contracts. Authority 
levels for expenditure are delegated to individual Executives or 
the Executive Management Committee according to a schedule 
agreed by the Board.
There are two Board committees. These are the Audit Committee 
and the combined Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
   Non-Executive Directors
The Company and its Board are not large enough to warrant a 
formal senior Non-Executive position. Instead, the other Non-
Executive is actively consulted by the Chairman and they provide 
feedback to one another on the various matters initiated by them.
Service agreements for Non-Executive Directors are agreed by 
the Board. They are available for inspection at the Company's 
registered office and at the location of the AGM for a period 
before the meeting begins.
   The Board as a whole
Collectively and individually, the Directors monitor the 
performance of the Board and its members on a range of 
measures. These include attendance, familiarity with the Board 
packs, the quality of those Board packs, an understanding of 
the matters under discussion, the ability to contribute to Board 
discussion and the quality of the challenge made to Executive 
proposals and performance and the thoroughness of reporting 
and recommendations made by the Board committees.
Because of its small size and the cost of the process, a formal 
evaluation of Board performance by an outside agency is not 
believed to be appropriate. The Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee has not recommended that such a process is 
implemented.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice at 
Company expense if it is felt by them in their own judgement that 
it is needed to enable them to discharge their duties and that the 
cost of such advice is reasonable in the circumstances.
   Membership of Board sub-committees
Malcolm Coster and Robert Goddard are the members of both 
the Board committees. Where matters before a committee 
concerns one or other of these members, the member in question 
withdraws and is replaced by the two Executive Directors.
The main purposes and terms of reference of each Board 
committee are summarised below.
   Remuneration and Nomination Committee
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee meets 
as required but at least once per year. The duties of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee are to:
1. Determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad 
policy for the remuneration of the Group's Chief Executive, 
Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company secretary 
and such other members of the Executive management as it 
is designated to consider. Universe Group plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012
13
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
2. Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any 
performance related pay schemes operated by the Group 
and approve the total annual payments made under 
such schemes and determine the individual schemes and 
payments that apply to the Executive Directors.
3. Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and Shareholders. For any such plans, determine 
each year whether awards will be made, and if so, the 
overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to 
Executive Directors and other senior Executives and the 
performance targets to be used.
4. Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any 
payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Group, 
that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss 
is fully recognised.
5. Within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation 
with the Chief Executive and Finance Director, as appropriate, 
determine the total individual remuneration package of each 
of the senior Executives who report to the Chief Executive and 
Finance Director, including bonuses, incentive payments and 
share options, other share awards or other benefits.
6. Oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures 
throughout the Company or Group.
   Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets formally twice each year with the 
Group's Auditor at appropriate times during the reporting and 
audit cycle, and otherwise as required. The duties of the Audit 
Committee are to:
1. Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including 
the annual and interim reports; review the consistency of 
accounting policies; review whether the Group has followed 
appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate 
estimates and judgements; review the methods used to 
account for significant or unusual transactions; review the 
clarity of disclosure in the Group's financial reports; and 
review all material information presented with the financial 
statements.
2. Review the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and 
risk management systems, and to review and approve the 
statements included in the annual report concerning these.
3. Review the Group's arrangements for its employees to 
raise concerns about possible wrongdoing, and ensure 
these arrangements allow proportionate and independent 
investigation; and to review the Group's procedures for 
detecting and preventing bribery and fraud.
4. Consider and make recommendations in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the Group's 
external Auditor; oversee the relationship with the external 
Auditor; meet regularly with the external Auditor, including 
at least once a year without management being present; 
review and approve the annual audit plan; review the 
findings of the audit with the external Auditor; and review 
the effectiveness of the audit.
5. Review the operation of the Group's policies for Anti-bribery 
and Whistleblowing and recommend to the Board any 
changes to the policies or their operation.
   Internal Controls
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal 
control. However, such a system is designed to manage, rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against misstatement or loss. The Directors have put in place 
an organisational structure and framework of controls that 
is periodically reviewed for its effectiveness. The key financial 
procedures within the Group's system of internal control are 
as follows:
 There is a comprehensive budgeting system with the annual 
budget being approved by the Board. Actual results and 
updated forecasts are prepared as needed and compared 
against budget;
 The annual capital investment budget is approved by the 
Board; together with significant individual items prior to 
commitment; and
 Significant treasury items are reserved for the Board.
   Communication with Shareholders
Presentations by the Chairman and Executive Directors of interim 
and full-year results are offered to all major Shareholders. 
During the course of the year, a general presentation of the 
Company was made to a large group of private investors. Other 
smaller Shareholders are welcome to make contact with the 
Company and wherever possible their concerns or questions are 
responded to by a Director, in person.
Major Shareholders are also canvassed for their views on the 
remuneration of Directors.
On behalf of the Board
Robert Goddard
Chairman
3 April 2013