  
28 
 
Corporate governance 
Unaudited Information 
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. Whilst not 
required to comply with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has nonetheless 
chosen to provide a selected number of disclosures which they believe may be useful to readers and 
potential investors. Set out below is a statement of the Group's approach to compliance with the 
chosen principles for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
During the year, the Board comprised the non-executive chairman, four non-executive directors and 
four executive directors. Brief biographies within the Board Members section demonstrate the range 
of the Board's relevant experience at a senior level. 
Internal controls 
The Board recognises the need to effective internal controls and for evaluating and managing the 
risk of the Group and has responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of 
internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness. The procedures, which include inter alia financial, 
operational and compliance matters and risk management, are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and are reviewed continues to review and 
improve the system on an on-going basis. The Board approves the annual financial plan, and 
performance against this is monitored and reported to the Board. The internal control system can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Such matters are brought to the attention of the Board at its formal Board meetings or as hoc 
discussions. High level controls in operation include: 
  review of management accounts with comparison of actual performance against prior periods 
and plan; 
  prior approval by the Board for major investments; and 
  segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments. 
The Board is aware of the need to undertake regular risk assessments to identify any deficiencies in 
the controls currently operating over all aspects of the Company. 
Details of principal risk and uncertainties are discussed in the Risk Management section on pages 14 
and 15. 
Board 
The Board generally meets eight times throughout the year and additionally as issues arise which 
require Board attention. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision. In addition to 
these formal matters required by the Companies Act to be set before the Board of Directors, the 
Board also considers strategy and policy, trading performance, acquisition and divestment 
proposals, approval of major capital investments and overhead costs, control and risk management 
policy, significant financing matters and statutory shareholder reporting. During the year, all Board 
meetings were attended by Board members in office at the time of the Board meetings. To enable 
the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, and the 
chairman ensures that the directors, including the non-executive directors, may take independent 
professional advice at the Company's expense if required. Appropriate training is available where 
necessary.   
29 
 
Part way through the Strategic Review, Peter Buchanan declared a conflict of interest and 
temporarily stepped down as CEO and ceased to participate in meetings of the Valiant Board relating 
to the Strategic Review and formal sale process. Michael Bonte-Friedheim agreed to take the role of 
Acting CEO and relinquished his Board subcommittee participations. Other than Peter's conflict in 
this respect, none of the directors has any conflict of interest between their duties to the Company 
and their private interests. 
The Company does not consider it necessary at the current time to establish a Nominations 
Committee but will keep this situation under review. 
Board committees 
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the committees described below. The 
membership of these committees was reviewed in early 2012 and the following changes were made. 
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises all non-executive directors with Phil Vingoe as 
chairman. During the year, it also included David Blackwood (chairman) and Michael Bonte-
Friedheim, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. The Committee met twice 
during the year. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: 
1. determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for the remuneration of the 
executive directors and such other members of senior management as it is designated to 
consider; 
2. determining the total individual remuneration packages including, where appropriate, 
bonuses, incentive payments share options, LTIP participation and the pension scheme; and 
3. making recommendations to the Board for its approval and that of shareholders on the 
design of LTIPs and making recommendations for the grant of awards to executives under 
such plans. 
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board. No director may participate in 
any discussion of, or any decision relating to, his own remuneration. 
The Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee currently comprises Kevin Lyon, Steve Horton and Jannik Lindb k (chairman). 
During the year, it comprised Michael Bonte-Friedheim (chairman), Jannik Lindb k and Kevin Lyon 
all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. The Committee met twice during the 
year and its main responsibilities include: 
  monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including annual and interim reports and 
any other formal announcement relating to the Group's financial performance; 
  monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the audit activities; 
  making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, review and removal of external 
auditors; 
  establishing the external auditor's remuneration and monitoring external auditor's 
independence; 
  monitoring the policy on external auditor's non-audit services; and 
  identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed 
and making recommendations to the Board as to the steps to be taken.   
30 
 
Auditor independence 
The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance and objectivity of the Group's external 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, when performing their role in the Company's reporting to 
shareholders. The external auditors are expected to provide the Audit Committee with information 
about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with current 
regulatory requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff. 
The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors is reviewed regularly by the 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee has a policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services 
to the Company by the external auditor. 
In its role of monitoring and approving the level and type of non-audit services to be delivered by 
the external auditor, the Committee considered whether the external auditor was best placed to 
deliver the services to the Group. 
Assessment of the continuing independence of the external auditor was also undertaken. As a result 
of these considerations a number of projects were approved to be performed by the external 
auditors during the year and a number were not. It is the policy that the Group has relationships 
with a number of service providers that can provide similar services to the external auditors. 
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee provide for it to have unrestricted access to the 
Company's auditor. The Company has no formal internal audit function due to the current size of the 
business, and the Board do not consider it necessary at the current time. 
The Company's auditor provides additional professional services including tax advisory services. 
Relationship with shareholders 
The Board remains fully committed to maintaining regular and strong communication with its 
shareholders. There is regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and meetings are 
offered following significant announcements. Results and other press releases have been issued 
throughout the year and the Company maintains a website at www.valiant-petroleum.com on which 
all such press releases and major corporate presentations are posted. Neither the content of the 
Company's website nor the content of any website accessible from hyperlinks on the Company's 
website (or any other website) is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document nor, unless 
previously published by means of a recognised information service, should any such content be 
relied upon in reaching a decision as to whether or not to acquire, continue to hold, or dispose of, 
securities in the Company. 
Enquiries from individual shareholders on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of 
the Group are welcomed. Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive news 
updates by email by registering online on the website and are also encouraged to attend the Annual 
General Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group. 
The Share Dealing Code 
The Company takes all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the directors and the Company's 
employees, contract staff and agents with the provisions of the AIM Rules relating to dealings in 
securities of the Company and has adopted an appropriate share dealing code for this purpose. 
In 2012, the Group updated its Code of Conduct policy which all employees and contractors are 
required to comply with and the new Code was rolled out across the organisation. The Code 
included procedures governing anti-bribery laws and for whistle-blowing whereby concerns can be   
31 
 
raised in confidence about possible financial wrong doing or other misconduct. The committee is 
satisfied that arrangements are in place for concerns to be raised, how these are investigated, and 
that the appropriate follow-up action is taken. 
  