 Vanco plc
Report and Financial Statements 2003
The Company is committed to high
standards of corporate governance and
supports the Principles of Good Corporate
Governance and the Code of Best Practice
(the Combined Code). This report describes
how the Combined Code is applied and
reports on compliance with the provisions
of the Combined Code.
The Board can confirm that, apart from the
exceptions listed below, it has complied
with the requirements of the Combined
Code throughout the year. The approach
established seeks to identify the nature
and the extent of the key types of risk,
evaluate their seriousness and likelihood of
them materialising and consider the
effectiveness of the controls in place. The
approach also considers the benefits of
such controls, in relation to costs incurred.
The exceptions to the compliance with the
requirement of the combined code are,
D.3.1 requires at least three Non-Executive
Directors on the Audit committee, a
majority of whom should be independent,
A.3.1 requires that at least a third of the
board are Non-Executive Directors and
A.2.1 requires that different people be the
senior independent director and Chairman
of the Board. However, the Board considers
that the composition of the Audit
committee and Board of Directors is
appropriate given the size of the Group.
Board of Directors
At the year end, the Board comprised five
Executive and two Non-Executive Directors
(including a Non-Executive Chairman).
After consideration of their shareholdings
in the Company, the Board considers the
Non-Executive Directors to be independent
and free from any business or other
relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement. Ted Raffetto has
been identified as the senior independent
Non-Executive Director and he is also the
Non-Executive Chairman. There is a division
of authority and responsibility between
the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief
Executive. 
In accordance with the Articles of
Association, Allen Timpany and Simon
Hargreaves are required to retire from
office at the Annual General Meeting.
Those Directors being eligible, offer
themselves for election. The Combined
Code recommends that all Directors should
be subject to re-election by the
shareholders at regular intervals and at
least every three years and this
recommendation was adopted in the
Articles of Association.
Details of the Directors' remuneration are
contained in Note 7 to the Accounts and
the Company's remuneration policy and
the principles under which it has been
formulated and applied are described in
the Remuneration Report as set out on
pages 16 to 22.
The Board meets monthly and has a
schedule of matters concerning key aspects
of the Group's activities which are
specifically referred to for its collective
decision, principally relating to strategy,
direction and financial performance of the
Group.  All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company
Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring
that all Board procedures are observed and
to the Group's professional advisors.
Furthermore any Director wishing to do so
in furtherance of their duties, may take
independent professional advice at the
Company's expense.
Corporate governance report
13 14
Vanco plc
Report and Financial Statements 2003
Board Committees
The Board has two principal standing
committees: the Audit Committee and the
Remuneration Committee. The
composition, purpose and function of
these committees are described below:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is compromised of
the two Non-Executive Directors and is
chaired by Ted Raffetto. It meets quarterly,
has written terms of reference and its
remit is to review the annual and interim
accounts and the appropriateness of
accounting policies, to review the internal
controls and financial reporting, and to
make recommendations on these matters
to the Board. It also considers the
appointment and fees of the external
auditors, the resulting reports and
discusses the action taken on problem
areas identified by Board members or in
external audit reports. At present due to
the size of the business there is no formal
internal audit function although the need
for one is reviewed annually. Based on the
latest such review, a formal internal audit
function is to be established during 2003.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee
reports the outcome of the Audit
Committee meetings to the Board and the
Board receives the minutes of all Audit
Committee meetings.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is
compromised of the two independent
Non-Executive Directors, is chaired by Ted
Raffetto and meets regularly. Its remit is to
assess the performance of the Executive
Directors and to consider and make
recommendations to the Board on
remuneration policy for Executive
Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee is
committed to the provisions of the
Combined Code and seeks to design
policies which will attract, retain and
motivate Executive Directors and senior
managers of the required calibre.
The Committee also has responsibility for
reviewing the operation of the Executives'
bonus and incentive schemes. The
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
reports the outcome of the meetings to
the Board and the Board receives the
minutes of all Remuneration Committee
meetings. The Remuneration Report for
the year is set out on pages 16 to 22.
Internal Control
The Board has adopted an approach,
which is in line with the guidance issued by
the London Stock Exchange, in establishing
the Group's internal control procedures
and policies. The Combined Code
introduced a requirement that the
effectiveness of the system of internal
control, including financial operation,
compliance and risk management, is
reviewed by the Directors. In addition, the
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on
the Combined Code (the Turnbull Report)
published in September 1999, provides
guidance to Directors in respect of this
requirement.
The Board recognises that it is responsible
for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a
system can only provide reasonable
assurance and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss, as it
is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the
businesses objectives.
Corporate governance report (continued) Vanco plc
Report and Financial Statements 2003
Control Environment
The Group is committed to ensuring an
appropriate control environment exists,
which will not slow growth or deter
innovation.
The organisational structure is defined and
communicated and individual objectives
and authority levels are identified.
Each Executive Director has been given
responsibility for specific aspects of the
Group's business. The Management Board
is the key decision-making body at
Executive level in the Group and is chaired
by the Chief Executive.
The Management Board meets monthly
before the main Board and focuses on
customer issues and technical strategy.  In
addition the Chief Executive holds regular
planning and review meetings with each
of the Executive Directors every one to two
weeks.
Identification and Assessment of Business
Risk and Evaluation of Controls
The Group's risk management framework
has been developed during the year in line
with the Group's position on the main UK
Stock Exchange. Risk Assessments have
been carried out on all key processes and
half yearly reviews are carried out, by
appropriate personnel, to ensure this is a
continuous process. The Risk Assessments
cover all aspects of business risk such as
financial, legal, operational, strategic,
compliance and business continuity risk.
A training programme has been conducted
to give key staff across the business the
skills that will enhance their ability to
identify and manage risk.  
Further training is also delivered at regular
intervals to ensure that new staff joining
the Group understand the risk
management framework.
Monitoring
Effectiveness of internal control is audited
and assessed by the finance and operations
functions under the direction of the
Finance Director. The operation of the
Group's health and safety management
system is reviewed by the finance function
to assess whether the health and safety
risks are being appropriately controlled.
An ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks
was in place from 1 February 2002 to the
date of approval of the annual report and
accounts. That process is regularly
reviewed by the Board and accords with
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors
on the Combined Code  produced by the
Turnbull working party.
The Board has conducted a review of the
effectiveness of the system of internal
controls for the year ended 31 January
2003 and the period up to 6 May 2003. In
carrying out this review the Board takes
account of material developments through
reports by the Finance Director and the
Audit Committee.
Auditors' Responsibilities
The Company's registered auditors,
Deloitte & Touche, are responsible for
forming an independent opinion on the
Accounts of the Group as presented by the
Directors, and for reporting their opinion
to the Company's members. The report of
the auditors to the members of Vanco plc
is set out on pages 24 and 25.
Going Concern Basis
After making enquires, the Directors have
formed the judgement, at the time of
approving the financial statements, that
there is a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason the
Directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Corporate governance report (continued)
15