 Vanco plc
Report and Financial Statements 2004 15
The Company is committed to high standards of
corporate governance and supports the Principles of
Good Corporate Governance and the Code of Best
Practice issued by The London Stock Exchange in 1998
(the Combined Code or the Hampel Code). This r e p o rt
describes how the Combined Code is applied and
re p o rts on compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code.
The Board can confirm that, apart from the
exceptions listed below, it has complied with the
requirements of the Combined Code throughout the
year. The approach established seeks to identify the
nature and the extent of the key types of risk,
evaluate their seriousness and likelihood of them
materialising and consider the effectiveness of the
controls in place. The approach also considers the
benefits of such controls, in relation to costs incurred.
The exceptions to the compliance with the
requirement of the combined code are, D.3.1 requires
at least three Non-Executive Directors on the Audit
committee, a majority of whom should be
independent, A.3.1 requires that at least a third of
the board are Non-Executive Directors and A.2.1
requires that different people be the senior
independent director and Chairman of the Board.
However, the Board considers that the composition of
the Audit Committee and Board of Directors is
appropriate given the size of the Group.
Board of Directors
Until 10 July 2003, Ted Raffetto was the Non-
Executive Chairman.  On this date, he was appointed
as Chief Executive for Vanco USA in place of Andy
Zynga.  Ted Raffetto's position as Non-Executive
Chairman was assumed by Prof. Dr. Thomas Wolf who
had been a Non-Executive Director since the
Company listing in November 2001. Subsequently on
1 September 2003 Jean-Pierre Gaudard was
appointed as a second Non-Executive Director.
There was therefore a gap between 10 July 2003 and
1 September 2003, during which there was only one
Non- Executive Director.
At the year end, the Board comprised five Executive
and two Non-Executive Directors (including a Non-
Executive Chairman). After consideration of their
shareholdings in the Company, the Board considers
the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and
free from any business or other relationship which
could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement. Prof. Dr. Thomas Wolf has
been identified as the senior independent Non-
Executive Director and he is also the Non-Executive
Chairman. There is a division of authority and
responsibility between the Non-Executive Chairman
and the Chief Executive. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, no
directors, are this year, required to retire from office
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting. The
Combined Code recommends that all Directors should
be subject to re-election by the shareholders at
regular intervals and at least every three years and
this recommendation was adopted in the Articles of
Association.  In addition Jean-Pierre Gaudard is
proposed for re-election as a Director at the Annual
General Meeting having been appointed since the
last Annual General Meeting.  Similarly having
changed from being a Non-Executive Director to an
Executive Director, Ted Raffetto's position is also
proposed for re-election.
Details of the Directors' remuneration are contained
in Note 7 to the Accounts and the Company's
remuneration policy and the principles under which it
has been formulated and applied, are described in the
Remuneration Report as set out on pages 18 to 25.
The Board meets monthly and has a schedule of
matters concerning key aspects of the Group's
activities which are specifically referred to for its
collective decision, principally relating to strategy,
direction and financial performance of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary, who is responsible for
ensuring that all Board procedures are observed, and
to the Group's professional advisors.  Furthermore
any Director wishing to do so in furtherance of their
duties, may take independent professional advice at
the Company's expense.
Board Committees
The Board has two principal standing committees: the
Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The composition, purpose and function of these
committees are described overleaf:
Corporate Governance Report Vanco plc
Report and Financial Statements 2004 16
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is compromised of the two
Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Prof. Dr.
Thomas Wolf. It meets quarterly, has written terms of
reference and its remit is to review the annual and
interim accounts and the appropriateness of
accounting policies, to review the internal controls
and financial reporting, and to make
recommendations on these matters to the Board. It
also considers the appointment and fees of the
external auditors, the resulting reports and discusses
the action taken on problem areas identified by
Board members or in external audit reports. A formal
internal audit function has been established during
early 2004. The Chairman of the Audit Committee
reports the outcome of the Audit Committee
meetings to the Board and the Board receives the
minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, which is compromised
of the two independent Non-Executive Directors, is
chaired by Prof. Dr. Thomas Wolf and meets regularly.
Its remit is to assess the performance of the Executive
Directors and to consider and make
recommendations to the Board on remuneration
policy for Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee is committed to the
provisions of the Combined Code and seeks to design
policies which will attract, retain and motivate
Executive Directors and senior managers of the
required calibre.
The Committee also has responsibility for reviewing
the operation of the Executives' bonus and incentive
schemes. The Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee reports the outcome of the meetings to
the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all
Remuneration Committee meetings. The
Remuneration Report for the year is set out on pages
18 to 25.
Internal Control
The Board has adopted an approach, which is in line
with the guidance issued by the London Stock
Exchange, in establishing the Group's internal control
procedures and policies. The Combined Code
introduced a requirement that the effectiveness of
the system of internal control, including financial
operation, compliance and risk management, is
reviewed by the Directors. In addition, the Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code (the Turnbull Report) published in September
1999, provides guidance to Directors in respect of this
requirement.
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the
Group's system of internal control and for reviewing
its effectiveness. Such a system can only provide
reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss, as it is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve the businesses objectives.
Control Environment
The Group is committed to ensuring that an
appropriate control environment exists, which will
not slow growth or deter innovation.
The organisational structure is defined and
communicated and individual objectives and
authority levels are identified.
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility
for specific aspects of the Group's business. 
The Management Board is the key decision-making
body at Executive level in the Group and is chaired by
the Chief Executive.
The Management Board meets monthly before the
main Board and focuses on customer issues and
technical strategy.  In addition the Chief Executive
holds regular planning and review meetings with each
of the Executive Directors every one to two weeks.
Identification and Assessment of Business Risk and
Evaluation of Controls
The Group's risk management framework has been
developed during the year in line with the Group's
position on the main UK Stock Exchange. Risk
Assessments have been carried out on all key
processes and half yearly reviews are carried out, by
appropriate personnel, to ensure this is a continuous
process. 
Corporate Governance Report (continued) Vanco plc
Report and Financial Statements 2004 17
Identification and Assessment of Business Risk and
Evaluation of Controls (continued)
The Risk Assessments cover all aspects of business risk
such as financial, legal, operational, strategic,
compliance and business continuity risk.
A training programme has been conducted to give
key staff across the business the skills that will
enhance their ability to identify and manage risk.  
Further training is also delivered at regular intervals
to ensure that new staff joining the Group
understand the risk management framework.
Monitoring
Effectiveness of internal control is audited and
assessed by the finance and operations functions
under the direction of the Group Finance Director.
The operation of the Group's health and safety
management system is reviewed by the finance
function to assess whether the health and safety risks
are being appropriately controlled.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing significant risks was in place from 1
February 2003 to the date of approval of the annual
report and accounts. That process is regularly
reviewed by the Board and accords with Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code produced by the Turnbull working party.
The Board has conducted a review of the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls for
the year ended 31 January 2004 and the period up to
5 May 2004. In carrying out this review, the Board
takes account of material developments through
reports by the Finance Director and the Audit
Committee.
Auditors' Responsibilities
The Company's registered auditors, Deloitte & Touche
LLP, are responsible for forming an independent
opinion on the Accounts of the Group as presented
by the Directors, and for reporting their opinion to
the Company's members. The report of the auditors
to the members of Vanco plc is set out on pages 27
and 28.
Going Concern Basis
After making enquires, the Directors have formed the
judgement, at the time of approving the financial
statements, that there is a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Report (continued)