 Directors' Report
98 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
Nominations Committee report
Anil Agarwal, Chairman, Nominations Committee
This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the 
Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during 
the year.
Membership and attendance
The Nominations Committee comprises the following Directors and 
met on five occasions during the year. 
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Percentage 
attendance
Anil Agarwal, Chairman 5/5 100%
Naresh Chandra (stepped down August 2013) 3/3 100%
Euan Macdonald 5/5 100%
Aman Mehta 5/5 100%
Deepak Parekh (appointed August 2013) 2/2 100%
The Board considers that the composition and effective operation  
of the Board is a critical component for the delivery of long-term 
shareholder value. The Nominations Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure the right mix of 
skills, experience, diversity and independence is present. It also plays  
a key role in ensuring the development of talent within the Group.
Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are set out in its 
terms of reference which can be found on the Company's website at 
www.vedantaresources.com and are also available on request from 
the Company Secretary. The main responsibilities of the Nominations 
Committee are to:
  Review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including 
the skills, experience and diversity of its members and recommend 
changes to the composition that are deemed necessary.
  Review the policy in respect of diversity on the Board and consider 
Board composition in light of the benefits of diversity, including 
gender.
  Consider candidates for appointment as either Executive or 
Non-Executive Directors and plan for succession in particular to the 
positions of the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
  Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for 
appointments to the Board.
  Identify suitable candidates for appointments to the Board and its 
Committees and consider the use of external advisers to facilitate 
the search for candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
  Recommend to the Board whether to reappoint a Non-Executive 
Director either at the end of their term of office or when put 
forward for re-election, having regard to their performance and 
ability to continue to contribute to the Board. The Committee will 
confer with Volcan in this respect under the terms of the 
Relationship Agreement.
Operation of the Nominations Committee
Other Executive Directors and members of the senior management 
team may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee as 
appropriate. The Chairman of the Nominations Committee provides 
an update to the Board in respect of the Committee's activities.
Nominations Committee activities during the year
The focus this year has continued to be on issues of diversity, 
succession planning and Board composition due to the Committee's 
awareness of the tenure of its Non-Executive Directors. Both the 
Committee and Board have discussed at length the need for 
refreshing of the Board and at the recommendation of the 
Committee, one new Non-Executive Director was appointed to the 
Board in 2012 and a further Non-Executive Director in 2013. 
Recruitment process
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nominations 
Committee oversees the preparation of a criteria specification that is 
provided to an independent specialist search agency retained to 
conduct a global search. In 2013, Spencer Stuart, a specialist search 
agency was instructed to consider a wide range of candidates taking 
into account geographical location, nationality, gender, specific skills, 
knowledge and experience, and the process culminated in the 
appointment of Mr Deepak Parekh to the Board. Strategic Report Directors' Report Financial Statements Additional Information
99 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
As part of the continual cycle to refresh the Board and to address the 
issue of gender diversity, the Committee is leading the 2014 process 
to recruit new independent Non-Executive Directors to succeed 
Mr Aman Mehta and Mr Euan Macdonald who plan to step down 
from the Board when suitable candidates have been identified*. 
The Committee has considered comprehensive search briefs with 
an emphasis on recruiting female members with UK listed company 
experience to the Board.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Group other 
than to provide recruitment consultancy services to the 
Nominations Committee. 
Succession planning
Succession planning during the year turned to a focus on executive 
management. The Nominations Committee had been considering for 
some time the recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer to replace 
Mr MS Mehta when he retired as part of the succession planning 
process. Tom Albanese was identified as a potential candidate after 
an extensive search. Mr Albanese joined Vedanta Resources Holdings 
Limited, the holding company of Sesa Sterlite Limited and Konkola 
Copper Mines, as its Chairman on 16 September 2013. This gave the 
Committee a further opportunity to review his skills and suitability 
before recommending his appointment as Chief Executive Officer to 
the Board. The Board confirmed his appointment with effect from  
1 April 2014.
Diversity
The Board supports the importance of having diversity of thought 
and representation on its Board and it is one of the Nominations 
Committee's tasks to ensure this is achieved. Board diversity has been 
considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to 
age, gender, race and ethnic origin, cultural and educational 
background. In terms of skill sets, Board members have a wide range 
of knowledge and expertise ranging from corporate finance and 
banking to diplomacy and law. In terms of gender, the Company's 
diversity policy has an aspirational target of achieving a minimum of 
25% women on the Board by 2015. We acknowledge that at present 
there are no women on our Board and addressing the gender balance 
to meet the target on the Board has been and will continue to remain 
a top priority for the Committee. It is essential to overcome the 
reasons for lack of female representation to date. These have 
included the fact that Vedanta operates within a traditionally male 
dominated industry. Furthermore, due to cultural constraints and the 
remote geographical location of some of our operations, we face a 
number of challenges in addressing the gender balance within the 
Group. Women currently comprise 8.4% of the overall employee 
population within the Group whereas the percentage of female 
representation across the Group's professional population is 12.4%. 
In order to achieve our target for women on the Board, we ensure 
that women candidates are considered routinely as part of the 
recruitment process. 
We also actively encourage and monitor the progress of women in 
senior positions throughout the Group. Initiatives this year included 
reviewing the barriers to women with children in returning to work. By 
supporting equal opportunities we will ensure that the pool of women 
from which management can be drawn will increase. In April 2014, 
Ms Lalita Gupte was appointed to the board of Sesa Sterlite Limited 
as an independent Non-Executive Director of that company, and 
Ms Roma Balwani joined the Group as Head of Communications 
and Corporate Social Responsibility. 
The year ahead
The Nominations Committee objectives for the coming year are:
  Review plans for nurturing talent and improving the gender balance 
within the Group.
  Continued focus on succession planning for the Board in order to 
ensure a balance of skills, experience and diversity.
  A commitment to increasing the participation of women across all 
levels of the business, not least the Board of Directors. 
Anil Agarwal
Chairman, Nominations Committee
14 May 2014
The main areas of activity of the Nominations Committee during the year are summarised below:
Area of responsibility Item
Board composition and succession planning   Review of skills, experience and diversity and approving key search 
criteria for recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors.
  Engagement of search consultancy to aid in recruitment process.
  Review of candidates and recommendation of the appointment of 
a new Non-Executive Director.
  Keeping under review potential candidates to address gender 
balance on the Board.
  Review of succession planning for executive management.
Governance   Evaluation of the Committee's performance.
  Approval of disclosures in the Nominations Committee Report in 
the Annual Report. 
Non-Executive Director independence   Review of the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors 
prior to recommending their reappointment by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting.
* In the interim, and to ensure the smooth transition of any new and incoming Non-Executive 
Director, the Nominations Committee recommended that Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald 
serve on the Board for a further year following the nine year anniversary of their 
appointment.