 Corporate governance
26 AWG Plc
The company believes in high standards of corporate governance
and endorses the principles set out in the Combined Code that
was adopted in 1998. The board confirms that the company has
been in compliance with those provisions throughout the year,
with two exceptions. The roles of Chairman and Group Chief
Executive were temporarily combined following the resignation
of the previous Chief Executive, and that the notice for the 2003
AGM was served according to statutory requirements. 
A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which applies
to reporting periods starting on or after 1 November 2003, was
published in July 2003 and has now been incorporated into the
Listing Rules. Changes to the company's corporate governance
regime, consequent to the new Combined Code, are being
considered, and the report for the year ended 31 March 2005
will be in accordance with the new Combined Code. 
Disclosures in this report are in accordance with the Combined
Code that was adopted in 1998; some additional disclosures,
which will be required by the new Combined Code, have been
included. 
The board
The company is headed by a board currently consisting of nine
Directors with a breadth of business experience. The board meets
regularly and retains responsibility for a schedule of matters
covering strategic, operational, financial and compliance issues. 
It thereby provides leadership to and exercises control over the
company. 
The board met 12 times during the year, of which 10 were
regular meetings and two were required to deal with specific
matters. The regular meetings lasted approximately four hours 
on average. The types of decisions reserved to the board included
approval of financial statements, returns to shareholders,
consideration of significant contracts and appointment of
Directors. Decisions delegated to management included day-to-
day operational matters and contracts for services below  5
million in value.
Attendance at board meetings during the year was as follows:
Number of
Director boards attended Total eligible boards 
Peter Hickson (Chairman) 12 12
Jonson Cox 4 4
Elliott Mannis 12 12
Euan McEwan 12 12
Roy Pointer 12 12
Andrew Carr-Locke 6 7
Bill Cockburn 11 12
Frances Heaton 12 12
Sue Lyons 11 12
Jim McKenna 9 12
Jim Cronin 5 5
Tony Eckford 5 5
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate. However,
between March 2003 and the appointment of Jonson Cox as
Group Chief Executive in January 2004, Peter Hickson acted as
Chief Executive as well as Chairman. 
The Chairman had no other significant commitments during 
the year.
The nine current Directors are comprised of the Chairman, three
Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The board has considered the independence of the Non-
Executive Directors using the criteria set out in provision A.3.1 of
the new Combined Code and has concluded that all of the Non-
Executive Directors are independent and free from any business
or other relationship, which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement.
The board has appointed Bill Cockburn, Deputy Chairman, as
Senior Independent Director, through whom shareholders may
raise any concerns which cannot be conveyed to the board
through the Chairman.
All board appointments are subject to full board approval of
candidates recommended by the Nomination Committee. The
members of the Nomination Committee are listed below.
Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings during the year
was as follows:
Number of Total eligible 
Director committees attended committees 
Peter Hickson (Chairman) 5 5
Andrew Carr-Locke 1 2
Bill Cockburn 4 5
Frances Heaton 5 5
Sue Lyons 5 5
Jim McKenna 4 5
Jim Cronin 2 2
The board receives regular reports on those matters reserved to it
which enable it to discharge its responsibilities to the company.
A board effectiveness evaluation was undertaken in December
2003 which examined the board's structure, functionality,
objectives, meetings, administration and corporate governance.
The results of that evaluation were considered in February 2004
and various actions identified. The board expects to repeat that
evaluation and to expand it to also cover board committees and
individual Directors in 2004/05.
All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years 
in accordance with Article 121 of the company's Articles of
Association. Those Directors who are subject to re-election at the
2004 AGM are identified on page 25. 
Directors' remuneration
The company has adopted the principles set out in the Combined
Code and has complied with those Code provisions during the
year. Details are disclosed in the remuneration report on pages
29 to 34.  Annual Report and Accounts 2004 27
Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings during the
year was as follows:
Number of Total eligible 
Director committees attended committees 
Jim McKenna (Chairman) 4 7
Andrew Carr-Locke 2 2
Bill Cockburn 6 7
Frances Heaton 7 7
Sue Lyons 7 7
Jim Cronin 4 5
Accountability and Audit
Financial reporting
The company's financial position and prospects are presented 
in a number of ways during the year to ensure a balanced and
understandable assessment can be made by shareholders and
potential shareholders. This includes:
- Annual Report and Accounts, prepared in accordance with
UK GAAP, which includes an operating and financial
review, statements on Directors' responsibilities and going
concern
- Interim report and accounts
- Pre close period trading statements which have been
introduced from the financial year beginning 1 April 2003. 
- Announcements regarding developments and contract
wins that may affect the share price of the company are
made as necessary
- Reports to Ofwat regarding the regulated water business
which includes the Annual (June) Return, the Procurement
Plan and the Special Agreements Register.
Internal controls
The system of internal controls seeks to manage and minimise
risk. Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable,
and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss. 
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing significant risks faced by the group. The board 
is responsible for internal control. Within defined delegated
authorities, management is responsible for risk assessment and
control. Both project-based and business risks (financial and non-
financial, including those of a social, ethical or environmental
nature) are dealt with in this way through the management
structure. This is complemented by control-risk self assessment,
and performance and contract review meetings where
management report directly to an Executive Director. Operating
divisions provide quarterly written confirmation of their
compliance with financial controls. The control-risk self
assessment is completed by the business annually and is used 
to focus risk management within the business and directs
internal audit planning.
The group policies and standards documents provide guidance 
to the operational businesses and functions about delegated
authorities, independent review of transactions, the bidding
process and project delivery.
The underlying controls are similar in Anglian Water, the IMB and
the Property division. The emphasis on aspects of control varies,
for example in Anglian Water there is a higher priority on
regulatory matters but there is an equal weighting in relation 
to health and safety.
The operating businesses have in the year identified their key
business risks and their relative importance in terms of both
financial and non-financial criteria. Material changes in risk and
control profiles are discussed at performance review meetings
and, for major projects, by the Main Investment Group (MIG).
The MIG provided a further independent peer review of projects
at initiation and thereafter through to commitment. This group
had been delegated authority up to specified levels beyond
which board approval was sought.
The Risk Committee, which is an Executive Committee, oversees
risk management practice, the control response within the
business and advises the Audit Committee of issues identified 
as required.
The Executive Directors report to the board material changes 
in the business and the market place that affect the business 
risk profile.
Throughout the year an internal audit function has been in place.
Since June 2002 the internal audit role has been enhanced
through outsourcing to Ernst & Young giving access to a wider
range of experienced auditors. The Head of Internal Audit has
direct access to the Audit Committee if and when required.
The internal audit plan, which is approved annually by the Audit
Committee, focuses on the core financial controls and material
risks faced by the business. The audit plan is supplemented by 
ad hoc audits at the request of the board and management.
Internal audit findings are reported to the board and the 
Audit Committee. 
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal controls in the group that have been, and continue 
to be, upgraded and refreshed. The company has been in
compliance with the Turnbull provisions regarding internal
controls throughout the year.
Audit Committee and auditors
The board has an Audit Committee, chaired by Frances Heaton,
which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and meets 
at least three times each year. 
The board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to
monitor and review the integrity of the financial statements,
significant financial reporting judgements, internal controls and
risk management. The committee's duties therefore also includes
consideration of the effectiveness of the group's internal and
external audit functions and recommends to the board the
external auditor's remuneration. The committee also considers
the group's policy on the provision of non-audit services by the
external auditor and the independence of the external auditor.