 15
Axis Intermodal plc
Introduction
The Board acknowledges the importance of the Combined Code 
(the Code ) and has reviewed the Group's compliance with the 
provisions of the Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority in the context of the current size and 
stage of growth of the Group. This statement explains how the 
Group addressed corporate governance during the period. 
The Board
The Group is managed by the Board of Directors, which comprised 
no less than six members during the year and which met regularly 
during the year. The Board has an established schedule of matters 
reserved for their specific approval, which include responsibility 
for the overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, 
approval of major capital expenditure and consideration of 
significant financial matters. The Board also reviews the strategic 
direction of the Group and its individual operating subsidiaries, 
their annual budgets, their progress towards achievement of 
these budgets and their capital expenditure programmes. 
The Chairman is responsible for supervising and directing the 
Board in setting and directing the Group's strategy, ensuring its 
effective control of the Group's businesses and monitoring the 
achievement of objectives and best practice. The Chief Executive's 
role is to manage the Group on the Board's behalf. Following 
the retirement of Christopher Rogers as Chairman in January 
2007, Robert Montague was appointed as Chairman, combining 
this with his role of Chief Executive. In view of the size of the 
Group and Mr Montague's experience, the Board believes that 
this combined role is appropriate for the Group at this stage of 
its growth.
 
It is the Board's intention to make further non-executive 
appointments during the current year to strengthen the Board.
All Board members have access, at all times, to sufficient 
information about the business to enable them to discharge their 
duties fully. Also, procedures exist covering the circumstances 
under which the directors may need to obtain independent 
professional advice.
The performance of each director is appraised by the relevant 
other directors on a formal basis at least once per calendar year.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association 
the two longest serving directors since their appointment or 
reappointment, as well as Heiner Mangels, who was appointed 
since the last Annual General Meeting, are seeking re-election at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Board Committees
The Board has established two committees to fulfil the specific 
functions described below. The minutes of all committee 
meetings are distributed to all directors. During the period under 
review the two non-executive directors, Christopher Rogers and 
George Canvin, were the only members of the committees until 
the retirement of Christopher Rogers in December 2006 when 
George Canvin and Stephen Ball became the only members of 
the committees; however, the other directors are invited to attend 
where appropriate. Both Committees have formal written terms 
of reference which are published on the Company's website.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Christopher Rogers 
during the majority of the period under review but now chaired 
by George Canvin, is responsible for reviewing a wide range 
of financial matters, including the Group's accounting policies, 
internal management and financial controls and the Group's half 
year and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board. 
The Audit Committee also considers the appointment and fees 
of the external auditors and discusses the audit scope as well 
as the findings and management letters arising from audits. The 
Committee met twice during the period.
The auditor has provided non audit services to the Group during 
the year. The objectivity and independence of the auditor is 
maintained by having separate engagement partners for audit and 
non audit engagements and the Audit Committee will continually 
review the independence of the auditor. 
The Remuneration Committee, also chaired during the 
majority of the period under review by Christopher Rogers and 
now by George Canvin, meets as required during the year to 
review the Company's general policy on executive remuneration, 
the application of the policy to the remuneration and benefits of 
the executive directors and to recommend and monitor the level 
and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Remuneration Committee Report (set out on pages 12 
to 14) contains a more detailed description of the Company's 
policies and procedures for executive remuneration. The Chief 
Executive (now the Executive Chairman) and the Company 
Secretary, as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee but 
they do not participate in discussions on their own remuneration. 
The Committee met once during the year.
Relations with shareholders
The Company's aim is to provide information to shareholders 
and the financial market with clarity and openness on a regular 
and on-going basis in order to assist in the investment decision 
Corporate Governance Statement 16
Annual Report 2006 
process. Accordingly, procedures are continuously reviewed to 
ensure that they are kept in line with current best practice. 
The Company's website provides full information on the business, 
results and personnel and is used for updating the market with key 
developments and announcements (www.axisintermodal.com).
All shareholders are required to receive at least 21 clear days' 
notice of the Annual General Meeting, which all directors intend 
to attend and be available to answer shareholders' questions. 
Separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting and details of all proxy 
votes will be made available in accordance with the provisions of 
the Code.
 
Internal control and risk management
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that there is an 
ongoing process to ensure that business risks are formally 
considered, assessed and monitored. T o this end, the Board has 
established internal control systems and procedures which are 
designed to ensure effective and efficient operations, including 
financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations, the 
effectiveness of which is monitored by the Board. In establishing 
and reviewing the internal controls, the directors take account of 
the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being 
incurred and the costs of control. The Board acknowledges that 
systems of internal control can only ever manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement. 
The Group currently does not have an internal audit function. 
The Board has considered the absence of such a function and, 
given the current size and structure of the Group, does not 
believe that the creation of an internal audit function would 
benefit the Group.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the directors have elected to 
prepare financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). The financial statements are required by law 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and of the Group at the end of the year and of the Group profit or 
loss for the year then ended. In preparing these financial statements, 
the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In so far as the directors are aware:
there is no relevant information of which the Company's 
auditor is unaware; and
the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish the auditor is aware of that information. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Nicholas Smith
Company Secretary
27 April 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)