 08_Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The following risk factors, which are not exhaustive, are particularly 
relevant to the Group's business activities:
Volatility of prices for oil and gas
The supply, demand and prices for oil and gas are volatile and are 
influenced by factors beyond the Group's control. These factors 
include global demand and supply, exchange rates, interest and 
inflation rates and political events. A significant prolonged decline 
in oil and gas prices could impact the viability of some of the 
Group's exploration activities. Additionally, the Group's production 
is predominantly sold in the domestic Russian markets which 
are influenced by domestic supply and demand factors, the 
level of Russian export taxes and regional transportation costs.
Substantially all of the Group's revenues and cash flows come 
from the sale of oil and gas. If oil and gas prices should fall below 
and remain below the Group's cost of production for any sustained 
period, the Group may experience losses and may be forced to 
curtail or suspend some or all of the Group's production, at the 
time such conditions exist. In addition, the Group would also 
have to assess the economic impact of low oil and gas prices 
on it's ability to recover any losses the Group may incur  
during that period and on the Group's ability to maintain 
adequate reserves.
The Group does not currently hedge its crude oil production  
to reduce its exposure to oil price volatility.
Oil and gas production taxes
The Group's sales generated from oil and gas production are 
subject to Mineral Extraction Taxes, which form a material 
proportion of the total costs of sales. The rates of these taxes 
may be subject to increases by the Russian government.
Exploration and reserve risks
Whilst the Group will seek to apply the latest technology to assess 
exploration licences, the exploration for, and development of, 
hydrocarbons is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. 
These risks include the uncertainty that the Group will discover 
sufficient commercially exploitable oil or gas resources. 
Unsuccessful exploration efforts may result in impairment  
to the balance sheet value of exploration assets.
The Group has disclosed Russian category C1 and C2 reserves 
for its oil and gas fields, as recorded by the Russian State 
Committee for Reserves. If the actual results of producing these 
fields are significantly different to expectations, there  
may be changes in the future estimates of reserves. These may 
impact the balance sheet values of the Group's Development 
Intangible Assets and the Group's Property, Plant and Equipment.
Environmental risk
The oil and gas industry is subject to environmental hazards, such 
as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of petroleum 
products and hazardous substances. These environmental 
hazards could expose the Group to material liabilities for property 
damages, personal injuries, or other environmental harm, including 
costs of investigating and remediating contaminated properties.
The Group is subject to stringent environmental laws in Russia 
with regards to its oil and gas operations. Failure to comply with 
such laws and regulations could subject the Group to material 
administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or other liabilities. 
Additionally, compliance with these laws may, from time to time, 
result in increased costs to the Group's operations, impact 
production, or increase the costs of potential acquisitions.
In particular, the Group's exploration activities in the northern 
end of the Karpenskiy Licence Area are conducted close to a 
protected nature area and the natural habitat of the Otis Tarda 
(Great Bustard), a rare and endangered bird species protected 
by Russian environmental law. The Group liaises closely with the 
Federal Service of Environmental, Technological and Nuclear 
Resources of the Saratov Oblast and conducts environmental 
studies both as required by, and in addition to, its licence 
obligations to mitigate any specific risk.
The Group did not incur any material costs relating to the 
compliance with environmental laws during the period.
Risk of operating oil and gas properties
The oil and gas business involves certain operating hazards, such 
as well blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows  
of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and releases of toxic 
substances. Any of these operating hazards could cause serious 
injuries, fatalities, or property damage, which could expose the 
Group to liabilities. The settlement of these liabilities could 
materially impact the funds available for the exploration and 
development of the Group's oil and gas properties. The Group 
maintains insurance against many potential losses and liabilities 
arising from its operations in accordance with customary 
industry practices, but the Group's insurance coverage cannot 
protect it against all operational risks.
The Group is subject to various risks relating  
to political, economic, legal, social, industry,  
business and financial conditions.
Volga Gas plc
Risk Factors Annual Report and Accounts 2010_ 09
Business Overview Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Foreign currency risk
The Group's capital expenditures are predominantly in Russian 
rubles (RUR ) and its operating costs in both US dollars and 
RUR. Turnover is in RUR and funding has been raised in US 
dollars. Any changes in the relative exchange rates among  
US dollar and RUR could positively or negatively affect the 
Group's results.
Business in Russia
Amongst the risks that face the Group in conducting business 
and operations in Russia are:
Economic instability, including in other countries or the   -
global economy that could lead to consequences such as 
hyperinflation, currency fluctuations and a decline in per 
capita income in the Russian economy.
Governmental and political instability that could disrupt,  -
delay or curtail economic and regulatory reform, increase 
centralised authority or result in nationalisations.
Social instability from any ethnic, religious, historical or other  -
divisions that could lead to a rise in nationalism, social 
disturbances or conflict, including terrorist attacks such as 
the bombing at Moscow Domodedovo airport in January 2011.
Uncertainties in the developing legal and regulatory  -
environment, including, but not limited to, conflicting laws, 
decrees and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry 
and foreign investment.
Unlawful or arbitrary action against the Group and its interests  -
by the regulatory authorities, including the suspension or 
revocation of their oil or gas contracts, licences or permits  
or preferential treatment of their competitors. 
Lack of independence and experience of the judiciary, difficulty  -
in enforcing court or arbitration decisions and governmental 
discretion in enforcing claims.
Expected changes to the federal and local tax systems. -
Laws restricting foreign investment in the oil and gas industry. -
Legal systems
Russia, and other countries in which the Group may transact 
business in the future, have or may have legal systems that are 
less well developed than those in the United Kingdom. This 
could result in risks such as:
Potential difficulties in obtaining effective legal redress in the  -
court of such jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of 
contract, law or regulation, including an ownership dispute.
A higher degree of discretion on the part of   -
governmental authorities.
The lack of judicial or administrative guidance on   -
interpreting applicable rules and regulations.
Inconsistencies or conflicts between and within various   -
laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions.
Relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in   -
such matters.
In certain jurisdictions, the commitment of local business people, 
government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide 
by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be more 
uncertain, creating particular concerns with respect to licences 
and agreements for business. These may be susceptible to 
revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or 
delayed. There can be no assurance that joint ventures, licences, 
licence applications or other legal arrangements will not be 
adversely affected by the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Liquidity risk
At 31 December 2010 the Group had US$26.6 million of cash 
and cash equivalents available to fund its ongoing operations 
and associated exploration and development activities. At 31 
December 2010 the Group has committed and planned capital 
expenditure of US$5.5 million relating to licence obligations on 
the Urozhainoye-2 licence area and further development drilling  
on the Uzenskoye field.
Through its ordinary course activities, the Group is exposed to 
legal, operational and development risk that could delay cash 
generation from operations or may require additional capital 
investment that could place increased burden on the Group's 
available cash resources.
The Group's discretionary exploration drilling activities on  
the sub-salt structures on the Karpenskiy and Pre-Caspian 
Licence Areas may require additional funding. Furthermore, 
should these activities lead to one or more discoveries, the 
Group will require significant further funds to appraise and 
develop these licence areas.
Tony Alves
Chief Financial Officer
Part of the gas  
processing unit