 The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and is committed to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the Group. This statement describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as revised in July
2003 (the Code), are applied by the Company. 
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 the Company has been in compliance with all of the provisions of the Code.
DIRECTORS
The Board consists of three Executive Directors and two Non Executive Directors, both of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman is an Executive Director. Barrie Cottingham is the senior independent Non Executive Director. The biographies of the Board members
shown on page 16 indicate the high level and broad range of experience which the Board possesses.  
Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is kept under review and provided where necessary.  
THE BOARD
The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the Group through the implementation of strategies designed to enhance
shareholder value. The Board reviews strategy on a regular basis and exercises control over the performance of each operating company within
the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those targets.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Managing Director are separate and clearly defined. The Chairman runs the Board and sets the strategic
agenda for the Company. The Group Managing Director is responsible for the operational management of the Group's business.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and additional meetings are held as required. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved
for its approval, including major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals and treasury policy. In certain areas, specific responsibility
is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The Audit Committee has two scheduled meetings each year and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees each have one, with additional
meetings held as required. 
During the year, all Directors attended the six Board meetings that were held. All of the members of the respective committees attended the two
Audit Committee meetings and the one Remuneration Committee meeting held during the year. 
The membership of the Committees appears on page 17. Copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees
are available on the Company's web site at www.vpplc.com.  
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense if deemed necessary for the correct
performance of their duties. The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
During the year, the Board conducted a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and the Chairman. The
evaluation was undertaken using a questionnaire prepared for the Board by Equity Culture, an independent consultant, which drew on its
experience of good practice across a range of listed companies. Issues arising were summarised by the Chairman and discussed by the Board
as a whole. As a result the Board feels that there are no major issues requiring change, however areas of potential improvement have been
identified and will be addressed during the coming year. 
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant
information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including latest available management accounts, regular
business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters. In addition, senior managers are regularly invited to Board meetings
and make business presentations to the Board. The evaluation of Board performance concluded that the level of information made available to the
Board was of appropriate quality and provided on a timely basis.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Company's Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The articles also require that at least a third of Directors should retire and seek re-election each
year.  Neil Stothard and Mike Holt shall retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. In addition
Barrie Cottingham having served over nine years as a Non Executive Director shall annually retire and offer himself for re-election by shareholders
at the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Code (A.7.2). The Board continues to regard Barrie Cottingham as independent and
values his contribution to the Company.
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement of the Company's remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing on
pages 19 to 22. Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on the recommendation of the Remuneration
Committee which have a direct bearing on his own remuneration package. Each Executive Director's individual package is set by the Remuneration
Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
CORPORATE   GOVERNANCE 
2 3 2
CORPORATE   GOVERNANCE 
4
COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations following the interim and preliminary results. All
Company announcements are published on the web site and the Investor Centre includes presentation material and other information useful to
shareholders.
The Board regards the discussion of the Company's strategy as primarily part of the role of the Group Managing Director and this forms part of
his regular meetings with institutional shareholders. Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board, both by the Group Managing Director
and Group Finance Director and by the Company's financial public relations advisors. The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts' reports
on the Company.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and governance matters. While the Non Executive Directors do not
ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they are available if requested by shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Company's Annual General Meeting, at which all Directors are available to take
questions.
As discussed in the Directors' Report, employee communication is given high priority.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts (see also page 18).
AUDIT
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the Group's financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting
procedures. In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and reviews work carried out by the internal and external auditors. The Company's internal
audit department works to an annual programme developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as covering specific matters arising during
the year.
The Audit Committee's terms of reference have been updated to reflect the requirements of the Code.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions under review. This includes a regular review
of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2006 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred appear in
note 3 to the Financial Statements. The non-audit fees which were paid in respect of taxation, due diligence and other advice are considered by
the Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors. The external auditor's appointment is subject to regular review by the
Committee and the lead audit partner is rotated at least every five years. The Committee also maintains a formal policy on the provision of non-
audit services by the auditor, which is reviewed each year. This policy prohibits the provision of certain services and requires that others are subject
to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman. All other permitted non-audit services are considered on a case by case basis.
The Committee is provided with information on all non-audit services provided by the auditor and the estimated cost of such services. The
Committee monitors such costs in the context of the audit fee for the year in order to ensure that the value of non-audit services does not increase
to a level where it has the potential to affect the auditor's objectivity and independence.
The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of independence from the auditor.
INTERNAL CONTROL
Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Code.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and risk management and the Audit Committee reviews and monitors
the system's effectiveness on behalf of the Board at least annually. The responsibility for the system rests with the Executive Directors. The system
includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks. However, any system can provide only reasonable
and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives.
The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so that the Board can reach its own informed view on control effectiveness. The Board
confirms that it has reviewed the significant risks affecting the Group and has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in place
during the year ended 31 March 2006 and through to the date of this report.
The Statement of the Directors' Responsibilities in relation to the accounts appears on page 27.