 18
corporate governance
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for
good governance and is committed to high standards of
corporate governance throughout the Group. This statement
describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance, as revised in July 2003 (the New
Code), are applied by the Company. 
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March
2005 the Company has been in compliance with all of the
provisions of the New Code except for the following matters:
prior to the appointment of Neil Stothard as Group Managing
Director in July 2004, the Chairman, Jeremy Pilkington, was also
the Chief Executive Officer; and the Nominations Committee
was only formally established in December 2004.
Directors
The Board consists of three Executive Directors and two Non
Executive Directors, both of whom are considered by the Board
to be independent. The Chairman is an Executive Director.
Barrie Cottingham is the senior independent Non Executive
Director. Biographies of the Board members are shown on page
11. These indicate the high level and broad range of experience
that they possess. 
Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is kept under
review and provided where necessary. Mike Holt received a full,
formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
The Board
The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance
of the Group through the implementation of strategies designed
to enhance shareholder value. The Board reviews strategy on a
regular basis and exercises control over the performance of
each operating company within the Group by agreeing
budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those
targets.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Managing Director are
separate and clearly defined. The Group Managing Director is
responsible for the operational management of the Group's
business. The Chairman runs the Board and sets the strategic
agenda for the Company.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and
additional meetings are held as required. The Board has a
schedule of matters reserved for its approval, including major
capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals and
treasury policy. In certain areas, specific responsibility is
delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of
reference.
The Audit Committee has two scheduled meetings each year
and the Remuneration and Nominations Committees have one
each, although additional meetings are held as required.
During the year, all Directors attended the five Board meetings
that were held, except that Mike Holt, who was not appointed
until after the June 2004 meeting, only attended four meetings.
All of the members of the respective committees attended the
two Audit Committee meetings and the one Remuneration
Committee meeting held during the year. Although the
Nominations Committee did not meet during the year, the
appointment of Mike Holt was considered and approved by the
Board as a whole.
The membership of the Committees appears on page 11.
Copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees are available on the Company's web
site at www.vpplc.com.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice at the Company's expense if deemed
necessary for the correct performance of their duties. The
Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that
Board procedures are followed.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors
to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given
to all relevant information. In the case of Board meetings, this
consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including latest
available management accounts, regular business progress
reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In addition, senior managers are regularly invited to make
business presentations to the Board.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the
provisions of the Company's articles of association, to retire and
seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General
Meeting. The articles also require that every Director must retire
and seek re-appointment at least every three years. Jeremy
Pilkington and Peter Parkin shall retire by rotation and seek re-
appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General
Meeting. In addition Barrie Cottingham having served nine
years as a Non Executive Director on 1 March 2005 shall retire
and offer himself for annual re-appointment by shareholders at
the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with the New
Code (A.7.2). The Board continues to regard Barrie Cottingham
as independent and values his contribution to the Company.
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a statement of the
Company's remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration
Report appearing on pages 14 to 17. Each Executive Director
abstains from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on
Remuneration Committee recommendations which have a
direct bearing on his own remuneration package. Each
Executive Director's package is set by the Remuneration
Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
CYK0874-Vp Inners  14:7:05  6:19 pm  Page 20 19
corporate governance
Communication with Stakeholders
The Company places great importance on communication with
its stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional
shareholders as well as presentations following the interim and
preliminary results. All Company announcements are published
on the Company's web site and the Investor Centre now
includes presentation material and other information useful to
shareholders.
The Board regards the discussion of the Company's strategy as
primarily part of the role of the Group Managing Director and
this forms part of his regular meetings with institutional
shareholders. Feedback from these meetings is provided to the
Board, both by the Group Managing Director and Group
Finance Director and by the Company's financial public
relations advisors. The Board also regularly receives copies of
analysts' reports on the Company.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to
discuss strategy and governance matters. While the Non
Executive Directors do not ordinarily attend meetings with major
shareholders, they are available if requested by shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the
Company's Annual General Meeting. All Directors are available
to take questions at that meeting.
As discussed in the Directors' Report, employee communica-
tion is given high priority.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Audit
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review
the Group's financial and other systems and controls and its
financial reporting procedures. In fulfilling this role, the
Committee receives and reviews work carried out by the internal
and external auditors. The Company's internal audit department
works to an annual programme developed in consultation with
the Committee, as well as covering specific matters arising
during the year.
The Audit Committee's terms of reference have recently been
updated to reflect the requirements of the New Code.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both
the internal and external audit functions under review. This now
includes an annual review of the effectiveness of the external
auditor, including its quality control procedures.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor is also
considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level
of non-audit fees. The split between audit and non-audit fees for
the year to 31 March 2005 and information on the nature of the
non-audit fees incurred appear in note 3 to the Financial
Statements. The non-audit fees were paid in respect of
assurance work (including taxation) and are considered by the
Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the
auditors. The external auditor's appointment is subject to
regular review by the Committee and the lead audit partner is
rotated at least every five years. The Committee also maintains
a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services by the
auditor which is reviewed each year. This policy prohibits the
provision of certain services and requires that others are subject
to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman. All other
permitted non-audit services are considered on a case by case
basis.
The Committee is provided with information on all non-audit
services provided by the auditor and the estimated cost of such
services. The Committee monitors such costs, in the context of
the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value of non-
audit services does not increase to a level where it has the
potential to affect the auditor's objectivity and independence.
The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of
independence from the auditor.
Internal Control
Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with
the applicable provisions on internal control contained in the
New Code.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of
internal controls and risk management and the Audit Committee
reviews and monitors the system's effectiveness on behalf of the
Board at least annually. The responsibility for the system rests
with the Executive Directors. The system includes an ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant
business risks. However, any system can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal
control objectives.
The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so
that the Board can reach its own informed view on control
effectiveness. The Board confirms that it has reviewed the
significant risks affecting the Group and has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year
ended 31 March 2005 through to the date of this report.
The statement of the Directors' responsibilities in relation to the
accounts appears on page 21.
CYK0874-Vp Inners  14:7:05  6:19 pm  Page 21