 23 Vp plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and is committed to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the Group. The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK Combined Code of Corporate Governance (the Code ) issued
by the Financial Reporting Council as revised in June 2008. The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 the Company has
been in compliance with all of the provisions of the Code.
DIRECTORS
The Board consists of three executive directors and two non executive directors. The non executive directors are considered by the Board to be
independent under the provisions of the Code on the basis that they are not members of management and they are free of any business or other
relationships that could materially interfere with, or reasonably be perceived to materially interfere with, the independent exercise of their
judgement. Peter Parkin is the Senior Independent Director. The Chairman is an executive director. The biographies of the Board members shown
on pages 14 and 15 indicate the high level and broad range of experience which the Board possesses.
Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is kept under review and provided where necessary.
THE BOARD
The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the Group through the implementation of strategies designed to enhance
shareholder value. The Board reviews strategy on a regular basis and exercises control over the performance of each operating company within
the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those targets.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Managing Director are separate and clearly defined. The Chairman runs the Board and sets the strategic
agenda for the Group. The Group Managing Director is responsible for the operational management of the Group's business.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and additional meetings are held as required. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved
for its approval, including major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals and treasury policy. In certain areas, specific responsibility
is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The Audit Committee has two scheduled meetings each year and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees each have one, with additional
meetings held as required.
During the year, all Directors attended the six Board meetings that were held. All of the members of the respective committees attended the two
Audit Committee meetings and the one Remuneration Committee meeting held during the year. The primary role of the Nomination Committee
is to ensure that appointments to the key leadership roles within the Group, particularly Board appointments, are made after due consideration
of the relevant and necessary skills, knowledge and experience of the potential candidates. In addition it considers succession planning in order
to ensure the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the market place.
Copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on the Company's web site at
www.vpplc.com
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense if deemed necessary for the correct
performance of their duties. The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board, having implemented improvements following the last formal evaluation of its performance, its committees and that of the Chairman,
feels that there are no major issues requiring change, but will continue to evaluate performance on a regular basis and implement changes as
necessary. The last evaluation was undertaken using a questionnaire prepared for the Board by Equity Culture, an independent consultant, which
drew on its experience of good practice across a range of listed companies.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant
information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including latest available management accounts,
regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters. In addition, senior managers are regularly invited to Board
meetings and make business presentations to the Board. The evaluation of Board performance concluded that the level of information made
available to the Board was of appropriate quality and provided on a timely basis. Vp plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24
Corporate Governance
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Company's Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The articles also require that at least a third of directors should retire and seek re-election each
year. Neil Stothard and Mike Holt shall retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. In addition
Peter Parkin having served over nine years as a non executive Director shall retire annually and offers himself for re-appointment by the
shareholders at the next annual General Meeting in accordance with the Code (A.7.2).
Full details of directors' remuneration and a statement of the Company's remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing
on pages 18 to 22. Each executive director's package is set by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Each executive director abstains from any discussion or voting, at full Board meetings, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee
which have a direct bearing on his own remuneration package.
COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders. The Executive Directors
present the Company's interim and full year results to brokers and analysts and also the meet fund managers, brokers, analysts and the media
on a regular basis to discuss business strategy, results and other issues. Presentation material used in these briefings is published on the Company's
website www.vpplc.com. While the non executive directors do not ordinarily attend these meetings, they are available if required by
stakeholders. Feedback from these meetings, collated by the Company's Brokers, Brewin Dolphin, and the Company's Financial PR advisor
Abchurch, is reviewed by the Board as a whole.
The Board encourages all shareholders to attend and ask questions at the Annual General Meeting which is attended by all directors. The Board
also actively encourages communication with employees and details of this are noted in the Directors' Report.
AUDIT
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the Group's financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting
procedures. In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and reviews work carried out by the internal and external auditors. The Company's
internal audit function works to an annual programme developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as covering specific matters arising
during the year.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions under review. This includes a regular
review of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit
work and fees. The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2010 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees
incurred appear in note 3 to the Financial Statements. The non-audit fees which were paid in respect of taxation and other advice are considered
by the Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors. The external auditor's appointment is subject to regular review
by the Committee and the lead audit partner is rotated at least every five years. The Committee also maintains a formal policy on the provision
of non-audit services by the auditor, which is reviewed each year. This policy prohibits the provision of certain services and requires that others
are subject to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman. All other permitted non-audit services are considered on a case by case basis.
The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of independence from the auditor.
INTERNAL CONTROL
Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Code.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls and risk management. The Audit Committee reviews and monitors
the system's effectiveness on behalf of the Board every six months and ensures that a thorough review in accordance with Turnbull guidance is
undertaken annually. The responsibility for the system rests with the executive directors. The system of internal control is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so that the Board can reach its own informed view on control effectiveness.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the significant risks affecting the Group and has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
controls in place during the year ended 31 March 2010 and through to the date of this report.
The Statement of the Directors' Responsibilities in relation to the accounts appears on page 27.