 Vp plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.vpplc.com
22
Corporate and Social Responsibility
The Group has a long history of conducting business responsibly and ethically. The Group is very aware of its corporate and social
responsibilities and they are an integral part of its business strategy. Our approach to corporate and social responsibility is focused on
employees, health and safety, the environment and the community at large.  
OUR EMPLOYEES
Our continued business success is a reflection of the skills and commitment in our talented and diverse global workforce. In a competitive global
market retaining and attracting the best people is key to our aims. We continue to attract new talent to the Group as well as promoting talent from
within the business.
The Group is an equal opportunity employer committed to providing the same level of opportunity to all, regardless of creed, colour, age, sex,
disability or sexual orientation. We believe that a diverse workforce promotes innovation and business success. Approximately 84% of our employees
are male and 16% female. 21% of female employees are in management roles and at Board level 20% are female.
Our policies and procedures are reviewed regularly and our line managers are kept up to date with
changes to employment legislation. Our policies are applied fairly and consistently with the aim of making
the Group an employer of choice who maintains a good relationship with its employees and encourages
them to balance work requirements with both social and family needs. We take our duty of care to our
employees seriously, and we give our employees access to an Employee Assistance Programme where
they can obtain confidential advice and support on issues such as health, relationship problems and
financial problems.
As a Group 50% of our employees have in excess of 5 years service, a further 25% have more than ten
years service and some have in excess of 35 years service. Long service is recognised and celebrated by
the business and we also recognise that this continuity is a contributing factor to our strong performance
in delivering service excellence to our customers. We regularly communicate with our people by making
extensive use of our intranet as well as employee conferences and our bi annual newsletter ViewPoint.
Less than
5 years
>10 years
service
>5 years
service
2014 2013
13% 11%
Employee turnover
Long service is valued
Recent long service awards - the 19 employees who received awards have 342 years of service between them, ranging from 10 years to 41 years. Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Vp plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.vpplc.com
23
Corporate and Social Responsibility
We sponsor pension plans for employees. Details of the Group's principal pension schemes are set out in note 24 of the financial statements. 
The Company supports employee share ownership and, where practical offers the opportunity to participate
in share schemes. At 31 March 2014, approximately 37% (2013: 33%) of UK employees were participants in
the Save As You Earn Scheme. 
Retaining talented people is vital to our continued success. We therefore operate an extensive training
programme that commences with a detailed induction programme and moves on to cover all the technical skills that our employees require to carry
out their roles. Customer service programmes are run throughout the business. The key messages of these programmes are take the initiative  and
take pride in all that you do . Management development programmes are run for all individuals new to management roles and we actively
encourage and sponsor individuals to develop themselves through further education programmes. Throughout this process we try to ensure that our
people fulfil their potential to the benefit of both the individual and the Group.
We believe that we have always operated in an ethical manner and we aspire to demonstrate honesty, trust and integrity in the way we conduct our
business. We do, however, have an established whistle blowing policy (see page 32) and employees are free to voice concerns on a confidential basis
through the Human Resources Director and ultimately to the Chairman, or the non-executive directors, if appropriate.  
HEALTH AND SAFETY
All group sites operate in accordance with the Group's Health and Safety and Environmental policies and procedures. These policies and procedures are
designed to ensure that the health and safety of all our employees, customers and anyone else who is affected by our activities is appropriately
safeguarded.
Furthermore, the Group is committed to developing a culture where all employees pay appropriate attention to health and safety risks to ensure that
accidents and dangerous occurrences are prevented wherever possible. Health and safety training is provided as part of the induction process for all new
employees and ongoing health and safety training
is provided to all employees as appropriate for their
roles including manual handling, fire safety, safe use
of hand tools, PAT testing and working at heights.
Health and Safety reports and issues are discussed
at operational board meetings with updates to the
main Board. During the year there were 16
(2013: 6) reportable accidents under the Reporting
of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences
Regulations 1995. There were no cases of
reportable ill health.  
In addition to these internal activities all group
locations are subject to regular health and safety
audits by an independent company with
appropriate reporting at both local and group level.
The same company also provides independent
advice on health and safety issues and new
legislation.
Participants in SAYE Schemes
- UK employees
2014 2013 2012
37% 33% 31%
Safety training Vp plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.vpplc.com
24
Corporate and Social Responsibility
THE ENVIRONMENT
We are aware of the potential impact our operations may have on the environment. It is the Group's policy to ensure as far as is reasonably
practicable and within the scope of current best practice, that our operations are carried out in such a manner so as to minimise any adverse impact
on the environment. In order to comply with this policy, the Group Health and Safety and Environmental Policy and Procedures Manual sets out the
environmental responsibilities for all levels of management in the Group.
The two main areas where the Group's operations have an impact on the environment are emissions to air (principally CO 2) from our equipment and
through our energy use and the disposal of fuel and oil.
Emissions to air
The Group has previously undertaken a comprehensive carbon audit with a view to identifying environmental impact mitigation opportunities. The key
performance indicators outlined in the table below, enable us to review our performance throughout the year and year on year. The external haulage
emissions have been based on assumptions relating to average journey distances and the average fuel usage of hauliers' vehicles. The CO 2 emissions
for all categories are based on the DEFRA 2013 table for converting energy usage to CO 2 emissions, including restating the prior year figures at the
new conversion rates.  
Direct Impacts (Operational)
Energy Type Normalised Tonnes Absolute Tonnes CO 2
CO 2 per  m Revenue
2014 2013) 2014 2013)
Gas and electricity 15.70 15.57) 2,875 2,599)
Diesel 65.63 69.25) 12,014 11,564)
Gas Oil 1.58 1.91) 289 318)
Total 82.91 86.73) 15,178 14,481
)
Indirect (Supply Chain)
External Haulage 26.03 26.56) 4,766 4,435)
We have used the results of our carbon audit to highlight areas where we believe we can reduce the impact on the environment of our day to day
activities and promote good environmental practices. We have formulated an action plan based on advice received from the Carbon Trust and the
Energy Saving Trust which will be used to further develop our environmental programmes and policies. For example the company car fleet is
reviewed annually to ensure that we are utilising vehicles that are both CO
2
efficient and have the best fuel economy. A large proportion of our fleet
now uses  start stop technology'. 
Whilst this year absolute CO
2
emissions have increased, reflecting our increased activity levels, normalised CO
2
emissions have reduced primarily reflecting
a reduction in the use of diesel through more efficient vehicles and a reduction in the proportion of our fleet of equipment which uses diesel.
We have a number of initiatives across the Group to use recycled rainwater to wash and clean our fleet, saving water and energy.
Waste Management
During the year we have continued to ensure that:
l We are in full compliance with all current legislation through internal review of legislation, working with specialist waste disposal companies and
use of external consultants. In this regard most of our divisions are registered under the environmental standard ISO14001.
l All waste is stored securely and disposed of via appropriately registered waste disposal companies. In addition sites which produce hazardous
waste are registered with the Environment Agency and waste data is reported to them. Furthermore, relevant divisions are registered under the
Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment Directive.
l Fuel, oil or any other waste products are not allowed into surface water drains or allowed to contaminate land or groundwater.
l We segregate our waste before collection to maximise recycling and minimise waste sent to landfill.
l Our suppliers minimise the packaging associated with our purchases. Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Vp plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.vpplc.com
25
Corporate and Social Responsibility
COMMUNITY
We aim to have a positive impact on communities in which we operate. As a business we actively encourage our teams to support their communities
by providing their time and enthusiasm to raise money for local and national charities. In most cases, the Group matches monies raised by employees.  
During the year ended 31 March 2014 we donated nearly  15,000 (2013:  26,000) to charities. This included donations in support of employees
participating in fund raising activities.
Vp recognises the need to train the engineers of the future and has successfully run apprentice schemes for a number of years, indeed many of our
current employees started with us as apprentices. We work closely with the Construction Industry Training Board to recruit and support our apprentices
to achieve their apprenticeship in plant maintenance and repair. We currently have 27 apprentices, 11 are just completing their first year and 10
completing their second year and 6 will complete their apprenticeship this year and be offered full time roles within the Group. We are currently
recruiting a further 18 apprentices to start in September 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT
The strategic report has been signed on behalf of the Board by:
Neil Stothard
Group Managing Director
5 June 2014
2013 apprentices