 Corporate Governance | 23
Board of directors
The details of directors who served during the year are
set out in the Directors' Report.
At the start of the year the Board comprised the
Chairman and Chief Executive, one independent non-
executive director and the Group Finance Director. 
In March 2003, two additional independent non-
executive directors were appointed. In May 2003, the
Group Finance Director left the Company. In August
2003, Mr Kelly was appointed as Group Chief Executive
and Mr Greenhalgh as Finance Director, and Mr Thian's
role reverted to that of Chairman. In January 2004, Mr
Bonnar, Operations Director, was appointed to the Board.
Formal Board meetings are held eight to ten times a
year. Information provided to the Board includes a
monthly report by the Chief Executive, management
accounts, reports on treasury and foreign exchange
management, and specific business plans and reports.
The Board also meets for in-depth reviews of strategy
and discussions of particular business issues, including
annual reviews of business development plans. The Board
has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
Committees of the Board include an Audit Committee,
an Appointments Committee and a Remuneration
Committee. All committees function within formal terms
of reference.
Non-executive directors are usually appointed for periods
of three years, subject to Companies Act provisions.
Additionally, in accordance with the Company's Articles
of Association, all directors are subject to retirement by
rotation at least once in every three years.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined
Code, the directors are aware that independent legal
advice is available to them in connection with matters
relating to the business of the Group.
Combined code compliance
Throughout the year ended 31 December, 2003 the
Company has been in compliance with the Code
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
except for the matters outlined below:
  Following the departure of two non-executive directors
at the end of November 2002, Dr May, the remaining
non-executive director, was the sole member of both
the Audit and Remuneration Committees. In March
2003 two additional non-executive directors were
appointed to the Board and to these committees.
  Until August 2003, Mr Thian's role was that of
Chairman and Chief Executive. When the search for 
a Chief Executive was completed and Mr Kelly was
appointed in August 2003, Mr Thian's role reverted 
to that of Chairman. 
Relations with shareholders
The formal proceedings of the Annual General Meeting
include individual resolutions on separate issues,
including a resolution relating to adoption of the Annual
Report and Accounts. All Board members usually attend
the Annual General Meeting and are available to respond
to shareholders' questions.
As a further means of communication with all shareholders,
the Annual Report and Accounts contains information on
the Group's business activities, in addition to the
statutorily required information. The Company's web site,
www.whatman.com, also provides information about the
Group, including a section on investor relations.
While carefully recognising statutory constraints
concerning disclosure of information, the Group
endeavours to provide opportunities for satisfactory
dialogue with shareholders. These include presentations
directly related to the publication of preliminary and
interim statements, discussions of the Group's strategies
and business plans, and periodic visits to the Group's
operational facilities.
Financial reporting
The Board of directors has ultimate responsibility for
preparation of the Group's Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board is required by the Companies Act 1985 to
prepare for each financial year financial statements which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and the Group as at the end of the financial
year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial
statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting
policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates. All accounting
standards which they consider to be applicable have
been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the
Company and the Group keep accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position
of the Company and the Group and which enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985.
Corporate Governance 24 | Corporate Governance
The directors have general responsibility for taking such
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
In view of the Group's satisfactory financial position, the
directors confirm that they have reasonable expectation
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources
to continue in operations for the foreseeable future and
have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements. 
Internal control
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the
Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The role of management is to implement
the Board's policies. The system of internal control is 
an ongoing process designed to identify, evaluate and
manage the significant risks facing the business. The
system has been in place throughout the year and is
regularly reviewed by the Board. The internal control
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Group's system of internal controls is communicated
through policy and procedure manuals. The Group uses
the corporate intranet as a communication channel to
ensure that all employees have easy access to the
procedures.
Internal financial control
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee, membership
of which comprises solely the non-executive Board
members, examines the effectiveness of the system of
internal financial control.  
The Audit Committee:
  Reviews the draft annual financial statements, with
particular reference to compliance with accounting
standards, company law and FSA requirements,
before they are presented to the Board;
  Reviews the external and internal audit work plans;
  Considers reports from management, internal and
external audit on the system of internal control and
any material control weaknesses;
  Discusses with management the actions taken on
problem areas identified by Board members or in the
internal or external audit reports.
  Monitors the independence of the external auditor,
including the nature and extent of non-audit 
services provided.
  Reviews arrangements by which staff of the Company
may, in confidence, raise concern about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other
matters and by which the Company investigates such
matters and implements appropriate actions. 
Internal financial controls and procedures include:
  A clearly defined organisation structure and the
appropriate delegation of authorities to operational
management;
  A budgeting system including the preparation of 
an annual budget approved by the directors and a 
re-forecasting process;
  The monthly reporting and review of financial results
compared to budget and the actual results for the
previous year;
  Clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure,
including annual budgets, detailed approval
procedures, and post-completion appraisals;
  For all acquisitions, detailed due diligence procedures;
  Accounting and financial reporting policies to ensure
the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Group's
accounting records;
  Specific treasury policies and objectives, with the
reporting to the Board of all significant transactions
and exposures.
The internal financial control system was reviewed 
at the start of the year by the Internal Audit Manager. 
After this position was eliminated in February 2003 as
part of a restructuring programme, an external consultant
was engaged to conduct a full review of the Group's
internal financial controls. This was achieved through
self-assessment questionnaires followed up with visits 
by the consultant to all significant operational facilities. 
The report of the consultant was presented to the Audit
Committee and to the Board in November 2003, and
appropriate action plans implemented. 
Operational and compliance controls
The operating policies are outlined in the Directors'
Report. Additional procedures and controls include:
  Human resources: The Group has local policy manuals
and has maintained IIP (Investor in People) status;
  Health, safety and environment: Risk management is
addressed by training, maintenance programmes and
the use of monitoring and control devices. The Group
also meets the standards of the IPC (Integrated
Pollution Control) Body and PABIAC (Paper and Board
Industry Advisory Committee);
  Manufacturing, quality and research and development:
All operations are required to be performed to
standards that meet ISO 9000. These procedures are
subject to independent audit.
Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance | 25
  Information and communications technology systems:
The Group has internal procedures relating to 
access controls, back-up procedures and disaster
recovery plans. 
A review of the operational and compliance risks faced
by the Group was completed in 2003. This identified the
executive responsible for each area of risk, and the
control systems in place and planned which manage the
risks within acceptable limits. The review was presented
to, and agreed by, the Board during 2003.
Risk management
There is a process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the risks faced by the Group. This process 
is reviewed and challenged by the Board.
The Board requires regular reporting and review of the
following key risk areas:
  Human Resources
  Health, Safety and Environment
  Information Technology
  Financial
  Commercial
  Business Operations
  Science and Technology
  Regulatory
  Facilities 
  Intellectual Property and Corporate Administration
The Board has received and reviewed reports by these
risk areas detailing the particular area's objectives, the
risks to those objectives and the control processes in
place to manage those risks within acceptable limits. 
By order of the Board
John Simmonds, FCIS
Company Secretary
13 April, 2004 26 | Whatman Annual Report 2003
The Whatman Mini-UniPrep helps us to save both waste and time, two key benefits to our core business.
The reliability and strength of their products allows for successful sample preparation and filtration at 
our lab on a consistent basis. 
Dennis Mayugba, quality assurance manager at Severn Trent Laboratories. 
Whatman Mini-UniPrep syringeless filters offer a fast, easy way 
to prepare samples for high performance liquid chromatography
(HPLC) in one third the time required by other methods. Easy 
to automate for high throughput laboratories.