 WYG is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. This statement sets out how the principles
identified in the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance have been applied by the Group in the current financial year.
DIRECTORS
The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, two non-executive directors who are considered to be independent,
and since July 2005, four executive directors. John Richardson is the senior independent non-executive director and is available
to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved through normal channels.
Biographies of Board members are set out on page 42. These indicate a balance and range of skills and experience
appropriate to the requirements of the business at the current time.
THE BOARD
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall strategy and direction of the Group. It has a regular schedule
of meetings and a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including decisions on strategy and direction,
acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and risk assessment and assurance. In certain areas, specific responsibility
is delegated to committees of the Board within clearly defined terms of reference.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined. The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive
management of the Group's business while the Chairman runs the Board. A formal process for evaluating the performance of all
Board directors is currently being developed.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board
procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent
professional advice at the Company's expense, if necessary, in the performance of their duties.
The number of Board and committee meetings attended by each of the directors during the year was as follows:
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination 
Name Board(12) committee(2) committee(3) committee(3)
John Purvis 12     3
Robert Hartley 12      
Denis Connery 11      
Richard McCaffrey (appointed 1 July 2005)     
Peter Wood 10 1 2 3
John Richardson 12 2 3 3
Brian Duckworth (appointed 1 April 2005) 3   1 1
Gareth Cooper (retired 10 November 2004) 5 1 1  
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The Board delegates certain specific responsibilities to committees. These committees have been formally constituted and have
clearly defined terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Board. The terms of reference for the Board and each of
its committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and for inspection at the AGM. In addition, following
formal decision making the Board may, on occasion, delegate authority to a standing committee consisting of any two
directors to facilitate sign off on an agreed course of action within strict parameters. The Board considers it to be appropriate
for the non-executive Chairman to sit on its committees.
With regard to specific committees:
Remuneration committee
The composition and role of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on pages 37 to 41. Full details
of directors' remuneration and a statement on remuneration policy is included in the report.
Corporate Governance
WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 34
_1_WYG_2005arm.qxd  04/10/2005  11:12  Page 34 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD (CONTINUED)
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprises all non-executive directors and the Chief Executive and is chaired by Peter Wood. 
It has clearly defined terms of reference which include regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board
and the identification and nomination of candidates for appointment to the Board.
During the year the committee was involved in the appointment of Brian Duckworth and Richard McCaffrey. Advice was taken,
as appropriate, from external advisors. A formal induction process is followed for directors appointed to the Board.
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises all non-executive directors and is chaired by John Richardson. The Board considers that all
members of the committee have recent relevant financial experience.
The role of the committee is clearly defined in its terms of reference. It includes understanding the areas of greatest financial
risk for the Company, evaluating whether management is managing this risk effectively and reviewing interim and annual
accounts in conjunction with management and auditors.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, is considered on a regular basis.
Both the audit committee and the independent auditors have in place safeguards to avoid the auditors' objectivity and
independence being compromised. The Group's policy with regard to services provided by the independent auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, is as follows:
Statutory audit and associated services 
The independent auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work. The independent auditors
also provide regulatory and compliance services and reports in connection with shareholder and other circulars. The audit
committee reviews the auditors' performance on an ongoing basis.
Further assurance services (this includes work relating to acquisitions and disposals) 
The Group's policy is normally to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to undertake this work because of their knowledge
and experience of the business. However, the Board reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
Other non-audit services 
The independent auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice
and information technology services. The provision of other non-audit services including taxation services is assessed on a case
by case basis, depending on which professional services firm is best suited to perform the work.
These safeguards, which are monitored by the audit committee, are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain
appropriate. The appointment of the independent auditors to provide non-audit services requires Board approval for any
assignment with fees above  50,000. 
The independent auditors report to the audit committee on the actions they take to comply with the professional and
regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members
of the audit team. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have formally confirmed this to the Board.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to 30 June 2005 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees
is included in note 3 to the financial statements. The non-audit fees were paid in respect of assurance work and international
regulatory requirements and were not considered by the audit committee to affect the independence of the auditors.
WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 35
CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
_1_WYG_2005arm.qxd  04/10/2005  11:12  Page 35 INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group's internal controls,
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. The system of controls is designed to facilitate
the efficient and effective operation of the Group.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the system of internal control within the business. Such a system is designed
to manage rather than absolutely eliminate the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The framework of the Group's system of internal control includes:
 an annual review of all business risks affecting the Group which also identifies procedures to manage and mitigate
such risks. These risks are monitored and updated on a quarterly basis;
 a Group organisation structure with clearly designated responsibilities and levels of authority;
 a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system with an annual business plan approved by the Board. Operating
results, cash flow, working capital levels and future workload are reported monthly. This data is reviewed and assessed
by reference to ratios and internal targets;
 a standard set of contractual terms and conditions for all grades of staff within the Group;
 financial accounting and management information systems utilised throughout the Group to maximise efficiency
and control; and
 a clearly defined hierarchy for the monitoring of submissions of offers on major projects. This includes detailed appraisal
and specific levels of authority to ensure all significant proposals are approved at the highest level.
The Board has considered the need for a separate internal audit function and considers it not to be necessary given that the
existing Quality Assurance function provides an appropriate method of monitoring the established systems across the Group.
This decision is reviewed annually.
GOING CONCERN
The directors are confident, after making appropriate enquiries, that the Group and the Company have satisfactory capital
arrangements, adequate resources and sufficient orders in hand to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
INVESTOR RELATIONS 
The Group places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders.
Formal communication with shareholders is mainly through the interim and annual report and all shareholders are invited
to attend the annual general meeting, which is attended by the full Board.
There is a regular dialogue with fund managers, brokers and analysts. These meetings are generally conducted by the
Chief Executive and Finance Director. Feedback on these meetings and copies of any analyst reports are provided to the Board.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and governance matters. Non-executive directors
do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders but would do so if this was requested.
At the annual general meeting the Chief Executive makes a presentation summarising the progress of the Group in the year.
Separate resolutions are proposed at that meeting for each substantially different issue to enable each to receive proper
consideration. Proxy votes are disclosed after each resolution has been dealt with as a poll.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH COMBINED CODE
The Group has complied with the provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance as laid down
in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority throughout the year under review subject to the following:
 for a period of four months in the year, between the resignation of Gareth Cooper and the appointment
of Brian Duckworth, there was only one independent non-executive director, excluding the Chairman, on the Board
and its committees.
Corporate Governance (continued)
WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 36
_1_WYG_2005arm.qxd  04/10/2005  11:12  Page 36