 Corporate governance
38 Corporate governance Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
We are very much aware of the concerns surrounding corporate governance both in the US and here in the
UK. It is the Board's strong belief that we should do all we can to reassure both shareholders and
stakeholders that the business is run to the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
Accordingly, as well as welcoming the Higgs Report on Non-Executive Directors and the Smith Report on
Audit Committees, we have already been examining how we could upgrade our performance in the areas of
corporate governance and social responsibility to provide further comfort, in anticipation of the publication of
these reports.
Our Audit Committee has for some years now adopted many of the practices suggested by Sir Robert Smith.
Nonetheless we are actively considering what further measures we can take in line with the thrust of the
Smith Report to further improve our performance.
We have also always sought to ensure that both our Executive and Non-Executive Directors are fully armed
with the maximum amount of information possible, and we see it as our duty to ensure they are in a position
to carry out their role fully.
In the area of social responsibility we continue to be very sensitive to the environmental impact of our product
and our operations. Accordingly we issued a separate Environmental report for the first time in 2002 and, as
mentioned therein, we are now developing identifiable measures and benchmarks for our environmental
performance - both on site and in our offices - with a view to reporting on these later this year .
On health and safety we have restructured our management processes to bring added weight to our efforts in
this area, and the Group Board has undertaken its first detailed annual review of our processes and
performance in this area. While we will continue to strive for improvement it is encouraging to note that our
performance in this area is significantly better than the industry average.
This statement sets out how the Company applies the relevant principles contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the Code ) appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The Board
consider that throughout the year the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code as set out in
Section 1 of the Code.
Board structure and reporting
Throughout 2002, the Board comprised five Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, three of
whom the Board regard as independent. All Directors stand for re-election at least once every three years. 
Mr I Robertson has been the Group's Deputy Chief Executive throughout 2002 and will become Group Chief
Executive on 1st March 2003, when the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive will be separated.
Mr M J Stansfield, the Chief Executive of the main Housebuilding division, and Mr N H Richardson, who is
Chief Executive of both the Commercial Property Development and Wilson Bowden City Homes divisions, 
are both plc Board Directors and are accountable to the Board for all aspects of operations.
The substantial and strong independent Non-Executive presence, led by Dr A D Portno as senior independent
Non-Executive Director, along with the management structure outlined above have ensured that the decision
making process is not concentrated with any one individual. It is also anticipated that the Non-Executive
element of the Board will be further strengthened by appointing additional Non-Executive Directors as
required. Accordingly, whilst Mr D W Wilson combined the role of Chairman and Chief Executive during 2002,
the Board considers that the requirements of the Code were satisfied throughout 2002 and will be in the future. 
The Board will meet on not less than seven occasions during the current year and the Executive Directors
also hold regular meetings. Formal arrangements will be instituted during 2003 for the Non-Executive
Directors to meet on their own on at least one occasion. The Board has identified in writing various matters Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Corporate governance 39
that are reserved to it for consideration. All Directors have access, as appropriate, to independent professional
advice and training, and also to the services of the Company Secretary. The Non-Executive Directors do not
participate in the Company's bonus or share schemes and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Shareholders
A detailed review of the performance and financial position of the Group is included in the Chairman's
statement on pages 6 to 9, together with the operating and financial review on pages 23 to 31. The Board uses
this to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects. 
The Directors' responsibilities in relation to the financial statements are described on page 51. The Company
encourages two-way communication with its institutional and private investors based on the mutual
understanding of objectives. All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General
Meeting, at which all Directors, including the Chairmen of the Board's Committees, are available for questions.
Board committees
Board Committees are in existence to deal with audit, chaired by Mr P J Byrom; remuneration, chaired by
Dr A D Portno; and senior executive appointments, chaired by Mr D E Brill. Details of the composition of the
Board Committees are given on pages 34 and 35.
The Committees responsible for remuneration and audit comprise solely three independent Non-Executive
Directors. The Remuneration Committee meets as necessary and on at least two occasions per annum 
and has access to Mr D W Wilson, other Directors and external advisors as necessary. The Audit Committee
meets prior to results announcements and otherwise as required, with management and Executive Directors 
in attendance if required. The external auditors may attend any of the Committee's meetings, or request that 
a meeting be convened. The Committee also has regular access to the Group's Internal Audit Manager . 
The Nominations Committee meets as required and comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors 
and Mr D W Wilson.
Internal control
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control covering operational,
compliance and risk management, as well as financial controls in Compliance with Code Provision D.2.1. 
The Directors are able to confirm compliance with the relevant guidance published by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, throughout the period from 1st January 2002 until the Board
approved the 2002 financial statements.
At each meeting the Board is made aware of any current internal control issues, whilst a more comprehensive
review is undertaken twice yearly. Similar processes are in place at subsidiary board level. Regular initiatives
are undertaken designed to ensure that the businesses maintain their focus on the embedding of internal
control and risk assessment into their operations and to deal with areas of improvement that come to the
attention of either operating management or the Board.
The Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility for internal control. However, it believes
strongly that, due to the commercially and geographically diverse nature of the Group's business, senior
management within the operating businesses should also contribute in a substantial way to the ongoing
process of identifying, evaluating, managing and transferring risk. Responsibility is also devolved to operating
management for ensuring that appropriate controls are established and regularly reviewed in the context of
the business environment in which the Group is operating.
The Group's systems of internal control are designed around ensuring adequate stewardship of assets, providing
appropriate information on a timely basis for the running of the business and ensuring the maintenance of
proper accounting records. These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. 40 Corporate governance Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Corporate governance continued
In carrying out their review of the effectiveness of internal control in the Group the Board have taken into
consideration the following key features of our systems of internal control:
  Each business unit produces a risk assessment incorporating a prioritisation of the Group's exposure 
to risk. This assessment encompasses operational, compliance, financial and business risk and is updated 
on an ongoing basis with a different aspect of internal control reviewed by management each month. A risk
assessment is similarly prepared for the Group covering the central functions and strategic risks. The Audit
Committee at its meetings periodically reviews these risk assessments.
 A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting for the Group's operations is in place with
particular focus on cash flow and profitability. This is updated monthly and provides appropriate, timely
information on the performance of the business as well as projections and sensitivity analysis for the
outlook period. This information is monitored in the local operations and also centrally. The Group's key
financial control functions are centralised, which allows for high-level input and provides control over our
diverse operations.
  The Internal Audit department has an established audit plan, which is regularly reviewed, updated and
approved by the Audit Committee. The work of the department includes audits of systems and controls,
reviewing all significant changes to systems and controls, ad hoc investigations, value for money exercises,
review of the risk assessments and facilitating the work of the external auditors. The conclusions stemming
from the department's work are reported to the Audit Committee.
  As part of the bi-annual review of internal controls a process of self-certification  by senior management 
is operated in order to ensure that, as far as possible, the controls and safeguards are operated in line with
established procedures and standards.
Our control and monitoring procedures are subject to regular review and the Board has reviewed the
effectiveness of our internal financial controls to ensure that they are keeping pace with operational and
organisational change and the business environment in which the Group is operating.