 44
44
Notes to the Financial Statements
26. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(i)   Companies in which directors had an interest
 Linden Systems Limited 
 IF Lenagan has a 99% holding of shares and voting rights in Linden Systems Limited.
 Professional Communicators Limited
 IF Lenagan has a 50% holding of shares and voting rights in Professional Communicators Limited.
 Green and Lenagan Limited
 IF Lenagan has a 50% holding of shares and voting rights in Green and Lenagan Limited.
 TeleWare Systems Limited
 IF Lenagan and G R Haworth each have a 40% holding of shares and voting rights in TeleWare Systems Limited.
 (ii)  Transactions with Related Parties 2004 2003
   000  000
 Linden Systems Limited    
 Sales 20 16
 Purchases (23) (41)
    
 Professional Communicators Limited    
 Sales 4 29
 Purchases (41) (156)
    
 Green & Lenagan Limited    
 Purchases - (10)
    
 TeleWare Systems Limited    
 Sales - 10
    
(iii) Nature of principal transactions
 Sales to Linden Systems Limited and Professional Communicators Limited consist primarily of the recharge of office rental and accountancy services.
 Purchases from Linden Systems Limited principally consist of payment for goods and services.
 Purchases from Professional Communicators Limited principally consist of payment for telemarketing services.
(iv)   Year end debtor balances 2004 2003
   000  000
 Linden Systems Limited 12 5
 Professional Communicators Limited - 6  
 Working Technology Limited - 7
 Land 2 Mobile Limited - 34  
  12 52
    
Advantage has been taken of the exemption conferred by FRS 8 to subsidiary undertakings, 90% or more of whose voting rights are controlled within the Group, 
not to disclose transactions with other Group entities.
Workplace Systems International plc (formerly TeleWork Systems plc)
Notes to the Financial Statements
45
45
27. DIVIDENDS
   
   Per share 2004 Per share 2003
     000   000
     
Proposed Final  0.2p 286 - -
     
Workplace Systems International plc (formerly TeleWork Systems plc) 46
46
Notice of the Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Workplace Systems International plc (the Company ) will be held at the offices of Dresdner Kleinwort 
Wasserstein, 20 Fenchurch Street, London EC3P 3DP on 9 August 2004 at 10:00am  for the following purposes of the Company:
To transact the following ordinary business:
 1.  To receive, approve and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Audited Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004.
 2.  To approve the Report to Shareholders on Directors' Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2004.
 
 3.  To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the  
  Company, and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration.
 4.  To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 of 0.2p per share.
 5.  To re-appoint as a Director of the Company Mr J Herring who retires and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.  His biographical details  
  are shown on page 12.
 6.  To re-appoint as a Director of the Company Mr I F Lenagan who retires and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.  His biographical details  
  are shown on page 12.
 and to transact any other ordinary business of the Company.
 To transact the following special business:-
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as indicated below:-
 As an ordinary resolution:-
 7.  THAT, subject to and in accordance with Article 17 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be generally and unconditionally  
  authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 (in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities) to  
  exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985) up to a  
  maximum nominal amount of  2,386,150 (being approximately one third of the current issued share capital) provided that such authority shall  
  expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or fifteen months from the date of passing this  
  resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require  
  equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the  
  authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
 As special resolutions:-
 8.  THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 7 as set out in the notice of this meeting, and in accordance with Article 18 of the Articles of  
  Association of the Company, the Directors be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 (in substitution for any existing  
  authority to allot relevant securities) to allot equity securities (as defined in section 94 of the Companies Act 1985) for cash pursuant to the  
  general authority conferred by resolution 7  as set out in the notice of this meeting and sell relevant shares (as defined in section 94 of the  
  Companies Act 1985) held by the Company as treasury shares (as defined in section 162A of the Companies Act 1985) for cash, as if section  
  89(1) of the Companies Act did not apply to such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to allotments of equity securities  
  and the sale of treasury shares:
Workplace Systems International plc (formerly TeleWork Systems plc)
Notice of the Annual General Meeting
47
47
  (i) in connection with or pursuant to an offer by way of rights, open offer or other pre-emptive offer to the holders of shares in the Company and  
  other persons entitled to participate therein in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to their respective holdings, subject to such exclusions or  
  other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems  
  under the laws of any territory or the regulations or requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange in any territory;
  (ii) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of  357,922
  and such power shall expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or on fifteen months from the  
  date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, but so that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or  
  might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry, and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell  
  treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
 9.  THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of Association of the Company and  
  pursuant to section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, to make market purchases (as defined in section 163 of the Companies Act 1985) of up to  
  7,158,440 Ordinary Shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company (being approximately 5% per cent of the current issued ordinary share  
  capital of the Company) on such terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may from time to time determine, provided that:
  (a) the amount paid for each share (exclusive of expenses) shall not be more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotation  
  for Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days before the date on which the  
  contract for the purchase is made, and in any event not less than 5p per share; and
  (b) the authority herein contained shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or fifteen  
  months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, provided that the Company may, before such expiry, make a contract to  
  purchase its own shares which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and the Company may make a purchase of its own  
  shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
Notes:
 (i)  A corporation which is a member of the Company can, by resolution of its Directors, authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its  
  representative at the meeting.
 (ii)  A member who is entitled to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead  
  of him.  The proxy need not be a member of the Company.  Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from  
  attending the meeting and voting in person instead of the proxy if he so wishes.
 (iii)  To be valid the form of proxy, together with a power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of  
  such power or authority, must be deposited at the offices of the Company's Registrars, Capita IRG Plc, Bourne House, 34 Beckenham Road,  
  Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
 (iv)  The register of Directors' interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be  
  available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and until its conclusion.
 (v)  In accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority, copies of Director's Service contracts will be available for inspection at the  
  Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays and public holidays excepted) from the date of this  
  notice until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting 15 minutes prior to the meeting and until its conclusion.
Workplace Systems International plc (formerly TeleWork Systems plc) 48
48
Advisors
REGISTERED OFFICE
Precedent Drive
Rooksley
Milton Keynes   MK13 8PP
AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
PRINCIPAL BANKER
HSBC plc
19 Midsummer Place
Milton Keynes   MK9 3GB
STOCKBROKER
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein
20 Fenchurch Street
London   EC3P 2DB
SOLICITORS
Eversheds
115 Colmore Row
Birmingham   B3 2BN
Slaughter and May
35 Basinghall Street
London   EC2V 2DB
REGISTRARS
Capita IRG plc
Bourne House
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent   BR3 4TU
Company Number: 3966381
Workplace Systems International plc (formerly TeleWork Systems plc)
Precedent Drive, Rooksley
Milton Keynes  MK13 8PP
England.
T:  +44 (0)1908 242042
F:  +44 (0)1908 251321
E: enquiries@workplace-systems.com
W: www.workplace-systems.com