 Review of the Audit Committee 
Report by Colin Day
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee members
Meetings
Paul Spencer (chairman until 12 June 2013) 4
Colin Day (chairman from 12 June 2013) 7
Sol Trujillo 7
Jeffrey Rosen 6
Roger Agnelli
1
3
Jacques Aigrain
1
3
Charlene Begley
2
1
Hugo Shong
1
3
1
 Appointed to the Committee on 13 May 2013.
2
 Appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2013.
Dear share owner
W
e held seven meetings during the year, 
which were attended by the external auditors, 
the Company's chairman, the Group finance 
director, Bud Morten, the director of 
internal audit, the Group chief counsel and the 
Company Secretary.
Preparatory meetings were also held with the 
internal and external auditors as well as members of 
the Company's senior management. The committee 
received presentations from the heads of internal 
audit, finance, tax, compliance and legal. The 
committee also received reports from the Disclosure 
Committee on financial reports. The Board received 
regular reports on all matters of particular 
significance arising at the committee meetings. 
The committee's terms of reference, which are 
reviewed with the Board annually and most recently 
in December 2013, are on the Company's website 
at wpp.com/investor. 
The committee and its members were formally 
assessed by the chairman of the Company as part 
of the annual evaluation process described on page 
126 for their technical suitability to be members 
and also for its overall effectiveness. The Board has 
designated me as the committee's financial expert for 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) purposes and as having 
recent and relevant financial experience for the 
purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The members of the committee have financial and/or 
financial services experience as set out in their 
biographies on pages 114 to 118.
Committee responsibilities and how they were 
discharged in 2013
The main matters we dealt with during 2013 were 
as follows:
  
monitoring the integrity of the Company's 
financial statements and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgements; 
  
reviewing internal financial control and internal 
audit activities; 
  
assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities 
in respect of reviewing and reporting on the systems 
and key elements of risk management as they affect 
the Group;
  
reviewing the Group Treasury policy with 
particular focus on debtors, funding foreign 
exchange and cash management and the continued 
ability of the Group to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing financial statements; 
  
reviewing reports on any material litigation or 
regulatory reviews involving Group companies; 
  
reviewing the Group's mergers and acquisitions 
strategy, any significant acquisitions, due diligence 
procedures and integration processes and the debt 
financing by the Group; 
  
reviewing GroupM's trading model and its risk 
assessment processes; 
  
reviewing the Group's tax strategy; 
  
monitoring the accounting and legal reporting 
requirements, including all relevant regulations 
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
How we behave and how we're rewarded
Directors' report
127 of the UK Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ 
and the Jersey Financial Services Commission; 
  
overseeing continued compliance with Section 
404 of SOX, through regular status reports 
submitted by the internal and external auditors;
  
reviewing the Group's reporting systems and 
shared services and IT integration initiatives;
  
reviewing issues raised on our Right to Speak 
helpline and the actions taken in response to 
those calls; and
  
reviewing the Group's initiatives and policies 
on data privacy and internet security.
The committee examined whether the annual 
report and accounts for 2013 was fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided the information 
necessary for share owners to assess the Group's 
performance, business model and strategy. The 
process the committee, the Disclosure Committee and 
the Board undertook is outlined in the Nomination 
and Governance Committee report on page 124.
Financial reporting and significant 
financial judgements
The management team make key decisions and 
judgements in the process of applying the Group's 
accounting policies. These key judgements were 
detailed in reports to the committee in respect of 
2013 which were then examined by the committee 
and discussed with management. 
Deloitte also reported to and discussed with 
the committee whether suitable accounting policies 
had been adopted in the financial statements for 
the year ended 2013 and whether management 
had made appropriate estimates and judgements. 
The areas of significant judgement considered by the 
committee and how these were addressed included:
  
the assessments made for goodwill impairment. 
The committee confirmed, based on management's 
expectations of future performance of certain 
businesses, the level of goodwill impairment 
charges required in 2013;
  
the judgements made in respect of revenue 
recognition particularly as these relate to media 
volume income and media trading income. The 
committee received briefings from Deloitte and 
management on the appropriateness of the policies 
adopted and the controls in place;
  
the valuations of non-controlled investments 
which are based on local management forecasts, 
recent financing rounds and other supporting 
information such as industry valuation multiples. 
The committee examined the valuations with 
management and considered the sample testing of 
the investments performed by Deloitte and agreed 
that the valuations performed were appropriate;
  
the accuracy of forecasting the potential future 
payments due under earnout agreements in respect 
of acquired businesses. The committee considered 
the forecasting with management and the testing 
undertaken by Deloitte and agreed that earnouts 
have been accounted for on a consistent basis to 
previous periods;
  
the approach taken to calculating fair value 
adjustments in respect of acquired businesses 
and specifically provisions for non-corporate tax, 
property and legal exposures which the committee 
considered was appropriate; 
  
the valuation of year-end provisions in respect of 
working capital. The committee received briefings on 
the approach taken by management in assessing the 
level of exposure across the Group and agreed it was 
consistent and appropriate;
  
accounting for the judgemental elements of 
remuneration, including, pensions, bonus accruals, 
severances and share-based payments. The 
committee agreed that the assumptions applied 
by management are reasonable;
  
the judgements made in respect of tax, in 
particular deferred tax assets including their 
recoverability and the level of tax provisioning. 
The committee supported management's 
assumptions in both these areas and believe 
the current level of provisions is reasonable; and
  
the going concern assessment and key forecast 
assumptions. The committee concur with 
management's going concern assumptions as set 
out on page 187.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
How we behave and how we're rewarded
Directors' report
128 External audit
Deloitte has been WPP's auditor since 2002. 
The lead partner rotates every five years and the last 
rotation was in 2010. In 2013, the effectiveness of 
the audit process was evaluated through a committee 
review of the audit planning process and discussions 
with key members of the Group's finance function. 
The 2013 evaluations concluded that there was a 
good quality audit process and constructive challenge 
where necessary to ensure balanced reporting. The 
committee held private meetings with the external 
auditors and the committee chair met privately with 
the external auditors before meetings. The committee 
continues to be satisfied with the performance of 
Deloitte and confirmed that Deloitte continues to 
be objective and independent. The committee 
recommends the reappointment of Deloitte at the 
AGM on 25 June 2014.
The committee considered the Group's position 
on its audit services contract following changes to 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and European 
Union regulations concerning the audit market. 
In view of the uncertainty regarding the form and 
impact of these regulations, the committee will 
recommend a course of action to the Board during 
2014 in respect of the tender of the audit contract.
Non-audit fees
The committee has established a policy regarding 
non-audit services that may be provided by Deloitte, 
which prohibits certain categories of work in line 
with relevant guidance on independence, such as 
ethical standards issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board and SOX. Other categories of work may be 
provided by the auditors if appropriate and if 
pre-approved by the committee, either as individual 
assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified 
categories of services. All fees are summarised 
periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate 
value of non-audit fees against audit fees. The level 
of fees for 2013 is shown in note 3 on page 209.
Committee membership
This is my first year as chairman of the committee 
which has been a year of transition as the committee 
now has a majority of new members as part of the 
Board refreshment process.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the 
committee, the parent company executives and 
the external advisors for their hard work in 2013.
Colin Day
16 April 2014
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
How we behave and how we're rewarded
Directors' report
129