 Compliance
The Board of Directors have complied throughout the year with Section 1 of the Combined Code published in 1998, 
which was annexed to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, except where described and explained below.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors, and two Executive Directors
including the Chief Executive. Brief biographical details of each of the Directors appear on page 9.
The non-executive Directors have experience, gained from commercial and financial backgrounds, which enables them
to make a constructive contribution to the Company. Provision 3.2 of the Combined Code called for the majority of the
non-executive directors to be free of relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgment and in this context the Board are satisfied that Mr Charles Fisher, Mr Rupert Soames and Mr Ian Fleming can 
all be regarded as independent. Mr Charles Fisher acted as the senior independent director throughout the year.
The appointment of additional or replacement Directors is a matter for consideration by the Board in conjunction with 
the Remuneration and Nominations Committee. The Board does not consider that limitation on the period of service of
Directors, other than as provided in the Articles of Association, is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and is responsible for establishing the development and investment
strategies of the Company as well as their funding and implementation. It monitors the trading activities of the business
and the performance of management against agreed targets.
Committees of the Board
Remuneration and Nominations Committee
During the year, the Remuneration and Nominations Committee comprised Mr Charles Fisher (Chairman) and the other
non-executive directors. It met when required and formulated remuneration packages to recruit and retain the services of
Directors of requisite calibre and experience to maintain and develop the Company. In view of the size of the Company 
the Board did not operate with a separate Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee as suggested by Provision
A5.1 of the Combined Code but combined such functions within the terms of this Committee. Prior to the appointment
of Mr Fleming in March 2004 there was extensive discussion, led by the Senior Independent Director and involving all
members of the Board, to determine the attributes required, following which the services of Norman Broadbent were enlisted
to identify potential candidates and draw up a shortlist. In the light of the Revised Combined Code the Board have reviewed
their policy and, with effect from 1st January 2005, separate Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be established.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Ian Fleming (Chairman) and the other non-executive Directors. Mr Rupert Soames
acted as Chairman of this Committee following the retirement of Mr John Gough on 10th February 2004 until Mr Fleming
assumed this position in May 2004. The Committee meets at least twice a year and receives reports from the auditors, who
may attend meetings. The Committee reviews the interim and annual financial statements, considers the impact of actual
and proposed changes to accounting regulations which may affect the Company and reviews statutory and external
compliance requirements and internal control procedures. The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity
of the auditors and advises the Board on their appointment and on their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work.
Operations Board
The Board have established an Operations Board comprising the Chairman, the executive Directors and other senior
executives of the Company, as set out on page 8. The Chairman acts in a non-executive capacity, with no direct operational
responsibilities, and the other non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend the meetings. The Operations Board is
responsible for the day to day operations of the Company within the strategic parameters set by the Board of Directors and
for the review of the performance of operating units against agreed budgets.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2004
Corporate Governance
page 14 page 15
Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 19 describes the Company's remuneration policy and the extent of its compliance
with the Combined Code.
Relations with Shareholders
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are actively involved in investor relations and the views of shareholders 
are reported to the Board. Individual shareholders are made welcome at the annual general meeting where they have the
opportunity to meet and ask questions of the Directors, including the Chairman, as well as the Chairmen of the Audit
Committee and the Remuneration and Nominations Committee. The Company's annual report and interim statement 
are published on the website www.baggeridge.co.uk.
Accountability and Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the systems of internal control within the Company and for reviewing the
effectiveness of the Company's systems of internal control. Although no system of internal control can provide absolute
assurance against any material misstatement or loss, the systems are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable
assurance that any material problems would be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board have established a framework for internal control and risk assessment to safeguard the Company's assets in
accordance with the guidance on internal control issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales 
in September 1999. The Board have taken an active part in the identification of potential financial and non-financial risks,
which are kept under review, and have identified the appropriate executive management responsibilities. There are regular
committee meetings of executives from relevant disciplines within the Company to consider various areas of operations and
to consider the potential risks arising, including matters such as health and safety, information technology, environmental,
quality and energy issues, continuity of supplies, personnel and training. These committee meetings are attended or chaired
by the Chief Executive or Finance Director and salient matters arising therefrom are reported to the Board.
Other features of the internal control systems are as follows:
- An organisation structure with clear reporting lines and authority levels;
- Comprehensive annual budgets for each operating unit are prepared centrally in conjunction with local management
and are agreed by the Board before adoption;
- Actual performance is monitored by means of weekly trading statements and full monthly management accounts;
- Variances against budget are discussed with operating management at monthly review meetings, salient matters from
which form the basis of monthly reports to the Board;
- A number of key functions such as treasury management, taxation and insurance are controlled centrally in
accordance with policy discussed and agreed by the Board.
The effectiveness of the systems of internal control has been reviewed by the Board for the period from the commencement
of the financial year to the date of approval of these financial statements. In view of the foregoing procedures the Board do
not believe that a formal Internal Audit function is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company but will keep the
matter under review.
Treasury Management
The Company considers the main treasury risks relate to the adequacy of funding and interest rate fluctuations. There is no
significant exposure to currency risk as only a small proportion of the Company's foreign sales and purchases are transacted
in currencies other than sterling. The Board reviews the policy for management of these risks and approves new banking
facilities.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2004 Liquidity is managed such that the Company has adequate facilities including sufficient committed facilities, with an
appropriate maturity profile, to meet forecast requirements. The Company reviews borrowing requirements by reference to
its medium term plans and arranges facilities as required. At 30th September 2004 the Company had undrawn committed
facilities of  6.5 million, expiring within one year. Surplus funds are invested on short term deposit.
Interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed rate and floating rate debt. Currently, no derivative products are in
use. At 30th September 2004 100 per cent (2003: 100 per cent) of the Company's borrowings was at fixed rates. The
Company reviews interest rate exposure on borrowings and may take out appropriate financial instruments to manage
interest rate exposures.
As the Company has only limited exposure to foreign currencies no derivative products to hedge against currency
fluctuations are in place.
Audit
In addition to the statutory audit function fulfilled by the Company's Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, they and their associated
firm provide assistance on taxation matters and provide other statutory or regulatory review and reporting services as
required. It is the Board's policy in respect of non-audit services to ensure that the most appropriate advisers are used
taking account of the need for both relevant experience and objectivity.
Revised Code
The provisions of the Revised Combined Code (the Revised Code ) issued following the Higgs report, are applicable to the
Company with effect from 1st October 2004. The Board has reviewed its governance procedures in the light of the Revised
Code and have agreed to implement a number of changes to the corporate governance procedures. These will include the
establishment of separate Remuneration and Nominations Committees with effect from 1st January 2005, the establishment
of a formal Board evaluation process and a formal clarification of the respective responsibilities of the Chairman and 
Chief Executive.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2004
Corporate Governance
page 16