 The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose in the Annual Report how they have
applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code )
published in July 2003.
Compliance
During the year ended 30th September 2005, the Board of Directors have complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code,
except where described and explained below.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, two independent non-executive Directors, and two Executive Directors
including the Chief Executive. Brief biographical details of each of the Directors appear on page 9.
The non-executive Directors have experience, gained from commercial and financial backgrounds, which enables them to
make a constructive contribution to the Company. The Board are satisfied that Mr Rupert Soames and Mr Ian Fleming can
both be regarded as independent as provided for in Provision A.3.1 of the Combined Code. Mr Rupert Soames has acted 
as the senior independent director since 1st March 2005, following the retirement of Mr Charles Fisher.
The appointment of additional or replacement directors is a matter for consideration by the Board in conjunction with the
Nominations Committee. The Board does not consider that limitation on the period of service of Directors, other than as
provided in the Articles of Association, is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company. 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and is responsible for establishing the development and investment
strategies of the Company as well as their funding and implementation. It monitors the trading activities of the business 
and the performance of management against agreed targets. 
Committees of the Board
Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee
Prior to 1st January 2005 there was a combined Remuneration and Nominations Committee, but with effect from that date
the Board formed a separate Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee. Prior to 1st March 2005, Mr Charles
Fisher was Chairman of these committees and, following his retirement on that date, Mr Rupert Soames assumed the role of
Chairman of the Committees. Mr Ian Fleming and Mr Alexander Ward served on both committees throughout the relevant
period. The terms of reference of the committees are available on request. There have been no meetings of the Nominations
Committee during the year.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Ian Fleming (Chairman) and the other non-executive directors. The Committee meets at
least twice a year and receives reports from the auditors, who may attend meetings. The Committee reviews the interim and
annual financial statements, considers the impact of actual and proposed changes to accounting regulations which may
affect the Company and reviews statutory and external compliance requirements and internal control and risk management
procedures. The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors and advises the Board on their
appointment and on their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work. The terms of reference of the committee are
available on request.
Operations Board
The Board have established an Operations Board comprising the Chairman, the executive Directors and other senior
executives of the Company, as set out on page 8. The Chairman acts in a non-executive capacity, with no direct operational
responsibilities, and the other non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend the meetings. The Operations Board is
responsible for the day to day management and operations of the Company within the strategic parameters set by the 
Board of Directors and for the review of the performance of operating units against agreed budgets.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2005
Corporate Governance
page 14 page 15
Board meetings are held at regular intervals and the Board Committees meet as required. The number of full scheduled
Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year were as follows:-
Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board meeting Committee Committee Committee
A. E. G. Ward 7 (7) 2 (2) 1 (1) - (-)
C. M. Fisher 2 (2) 1 (1) 1 (1) - (-)
R. C. Soames 6 (7) 2 (2) 1 (1) - (-)
I. J. Fleming 7 (7) 2 (2) 1 (1) - (-)
A. M. Baxter 7 (7) - (-) - (-) - (-)
M. P. Haines 7 (7) - (-) - (-) - (-)
The numbers in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during the period when the individual was a 
Board member.
Directors' Remuneration
The Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 19 describes the Company's remuneration policy and the extent of its
compliance with the Combined Code.
Relations with Shareholders
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are actively involved in investor relations and they report the views of
shareholders to the Board. Individual shareholders are made welcome at the annual general meeting where they have 
the opportunity to meet and ask questions of the Directors, including the Chairman, as well as the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committees. The Company's annual report, interim statement and other announcements 
are published on the website www.baggeridge.co.uk.
Accountability and Internal Controls
The Board have overall responsibility for the systems of internal control within the Company and for reviewing the
effectiveness of the Company's systems of internal control. Although no system of internal control can provide absolute
assurance against any material misstatement or loss, the systems are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable
assurance that any material problems would be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately. 
The Board have established a framework for internal control and risk assessment to safeguard the Company's assets in
accordance with the guidance on internal control issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales 
in September 1999. The Board have taken an active part in the identification of potential financial and non-financial risks,
which are kept under review, and have identified the appropriate executive management responsibilities. There are regular
committee meetings of executives from relevant disciplines within the Company to consider various areas of operations and
to consider the potential risks arising, including matters such as health and safety, information technology, environmental,
quality and energy issues, continuity of supplies, personnel and training. These committee meetings are attended or chaired
by the Chief Executive or Finance Director and salient matters arising therefrom are reported to the Board.
Other features of the internal control systems are as follows:
- an organisation structure with clear reporting lines and authority levels;
- comprehensive annual budgets for each operating unit are prepared centrally in conjunction with local management
and are agreed by the Board before adoption;
- actual performance is monitored by means of weekly trading statements and full monthly management accounts;
- variances against budget are discussed with operating management at monthly review meetings, salient matters from
which form the basis of monthly reports to the Board;
- a number of key functions such as treasury management, taxation and insurance are controlled centrally in accordance
with policy discussed and agreed by the Board.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2005 The effectiveness of the system of internal controls has been reviewed by the Board for the period from the commencement
of the financial year to the date of approval of these financial statements. In view of the foregoing procedures, the Board 
do not believe that a formal Internal Audit function is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company but will keep the
matter under review.
Treasury Management
The Company considers the main treasury risks relate to the adequacy of funding and interest rate fluctuations. There 
is no significant exposure to currency risk as only a small proportion of the Company's foreign sales and purchases are
transacted in currencies other than sterling. The Board reviews the policy for management of these risks and approves 
new banking facilities.
Liquidity is managed such that the Company has adequate borrowing facilities with an appropriate maturity profile to meet
forecast requirements. The Company reviews borrowing requirements by reference to its medium term plans and arranges
facilities as required. Whilst at 30th September 2005, the Company had no committed facilities, at the date of the Directors
Report the Company had undrawn committed facilities of  7.0m expiring in 2010. Surplus funds are invested on short 
term deposit.
Interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed rate and floating rate debt. Currently, no derivative products are 
in use. At 30th September 2005, 100 per cent (2004: 100 per cent) of the Company's borrowings was at fixed rates. 
The Company reviews interest rate exposure on borrowings and may take out appropriate financial instruments to 
manage interest rate exposures. 
As the Company has only limited exposure to foreign currencies, no derivative products to hedge against currency
fluctuations are in place.
Audit
In addition to the statutory audit function fulfilled by the Company's Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, they and their associated
firm provide assistance on taxation matters and provide other statutory or regulatory review and reporting services as
required. It is the Board's policy in respect of non-audit services to ensure that the most appropriate advisers are used,
taking account of the need for both relevant experience and objectivity. The Audit Committee have received from the
Auditors a letter summarising their procedures for safeguarding independence and objectivity and confirming their
independence.
Board Evaluation
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of its operations,
including the Committees of the Board. This review included completion of an assessment questionnaire by each member
of the Board followed by a searching discussion of the results and considerations of the options for improvement in
procedures where opportunities for improvement were perceived.
Baggeridge Brick PLC - Annual Report 2005
Corporate Governance
page 16