 18 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2006
www.yougov.com
The Board
At 31 July 2006 the Board consisted of 5 executive directors 
and two non-executive directors, including a senior non-
executive director. The names of the directors and their 
respective responsibilities are shown on page 16.
The Board operates both formally, through Board and 
committee meetings, and informally, through regular contact 
amongst directors. High level decisions on such matters as 
strategy, financial performance and reporting, dividends, risk 
management, major capital expenditure, acquisitions and 
disposals are reserved for the Board or Board committees.  
For its regular formal meetings, the Board receives appropriate 
information in advance from management.
The directors can obtain independent professional advice  
at the Company's own expense in performance of their  
duties as directors.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new 
directors. All directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment and subsequent to this at the Annual General 
Meeting on a rotational basis, which ensures that each director 
is submitted for re-election approximately every 3 years. 
Proposals to re-elect directors are set out in the Notice of the 
Annual General Meeting on page 39.
Board committees
Remuneration Committee - The Remuneration Committee  
was established at the time of flotation. The composition  
of the Remuneration Committee is shown on page 16 and  
the statement of the remuneration policy developed by the 
Committee and details of each director's remuneration are 
given within the Directors' Remuneration Report set out on 
pages 16 and 17.
Audit Committee - The composition of the Audit Committee  
is shown below. The Audit Committee operates under terms  
of reference agreed by the whole Board and meets with the 
auditors to consider the Company's financial reporting in 
advance of its publication.
Board and committee attendance
The following table sets out the attendance of directors at Board 
and committee meetings during 2006.
 
  Remuneration Audit 
 Board Committee Committee 
Director meetings meeting meetings
Maximum  7 1 2
Peter Kellner 7
Nadhim Zahawi 7
Stephan Shakespeare 7
Katherine Lee 7
Panos Manolopoulos 7
Peter Bazalgette 6 1 1
Anthony Foye 7 1 2
Shareholder communications
The Board's assessment of the Company's position and 
prospects are set out in the Chairman's Statement on page 3 
and the Operating and Financial Review on page 7.
The executive directors meet regularly with institutional 
shareholders to discuss the Company's performance and  
future prospects. At these meetings the views of institutional 
shareholders are canvassed and subsequently reported back  
to the Board. The Annual General Meeting is used as a forum 
for communication with private shareholders.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board considers that the Company has worked hard towards 
compliance with the Combined Code. Full compliance has not yet 
been achieved and the Board and Audit Committee monitor the 
Company's compliance on a regular basis. The directors have 
completed a detailed review of the effectiveness of the systems of 
internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and 
risk management. This assessment has resulted in a detailed 
action plan, which is partially implemented. We continue to work 
towards full compliance.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the two non-executive 
directors, Anthony Foye (its Chairman) and Peter Bazalgette. 
All members of the Committee have relevant financial 
experience due to the senior positions they hold or have  
held in the past.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters in 
respect of which it considers that action or improvement is 
needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be 
taken. In particular the Committee is responsible for:
ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is 
properly monitored and reported;
monitoring the formal announcements relating to financial 
performance;
meeting the auditors and agreeing audit strategy;
reviewing reports from the auditors and management relating 
to accounts and internal control systems; and
making recommendations to the Board in respect of external 
auditor appointment and remuneration.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems is under 
constant review and a formal assessment of internal controls 
has commenced. The audit committee will monitor 
implementation of a series of detailed steps to improve the 
control environment. Although there was no formal internal 
audit during the year, the accounting functions were subject to 
periodic internal review.
Key control and procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate 
strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, and 
has put in place an organisational structure with defined lines of 
responsibility and delegation of authority.
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance
Report 19 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2006
www.yougov.com
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior 
to approval being given. This includes the identification and 
assessment of the business risks inherent in the Group and the 
media sector as a whole along with associated financial risks.
The system of internal financial control is designed to provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-
statement or loss. The key procedures include:
Detailed budgeting programme with an annual budget 
approved by the Board;
Regular review by the Board of actual results compared with 
budget and forecasts;
Regular reviews by the Board of year end forecasts.
Establishment of procedures for acquisitions, capital 
expenditure and expenditure incurred in the ordinary  
course of business;
Detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred  
on the development of new products;
Reporting to, and review by, the Board of changes in 
legislation and practices within the sector and accounting 
and legal developments pertinent to the Company; and
Appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff to  
take responsibility for key business functions to ensure 
maintenance of high standards of performance.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment  
of the auditors' independence each year which includes:
Confirmation of the auditors' objectivity and independence  
in the provision of non-audit services to the Company by  
the use of separate teams to provide such services  
where appropriate;
Discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing 
relationships with the Company and any other parties  
that could affect independence or the perception of 
independence;
A review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring 
independence of the audit firm and partners and staff 
involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the 
audit partner; and
Obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that,  
in their professional judgement, they are independent.
Any analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in 
respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is 
set out in note 1 to the accounts.
Risk management
The Board reviews risks facing the business on a regular basis. 
The following paragraphs demonstrate the key areas of 
identified risk.
Early stage of development - Although the Company has 
grown substantially since it was formed 6 years ago, it remains 
a relatively small company in an early stage of development. 
The Company faces competition from both large established 
international companies as well as small local businesses 
operating in the same sector.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Middle East - We now undertake business in the Middle East 
region. This exposes the Group to currency risk, inflationary risk 
and political instability risk. In addition we have a concentration 
of revenue in a small number of high value contracts. We 
manage these risks by investing in the local currency of Dubai 
and by having influential local partners. We keep abreast of the 
local political situation.
Projected growth - The Company's plans incorporate 
substantial growth in the coming years. This growth will be  
in part dependent on the marketing and research budgets  
of target clients over which YouGov has little control. 
Competition - YouGov has developed an internet-based 
research strategy which other large and established research 
organisations are also beginning to adopt. Some of these more 
established research organisations have well developed brands 
and substantial resources and may be able to use these to 
compete very effectively in developing online panels and 
competing software.
Staff - The success of YouGov will be influenced by the 
recruitment and retention of high calibre staff. Senior staff  
that manage key client relationships and those with software 
expertise are particularly important to the continuing 
development and smooth running of the Company. To mitigate 
this risk, YouGov is building account and project management 
teams for key clients and larger research projects. In this way 
the client relationship and project related knowledge are shared 
among a number of individuals rather than concentrated with 
one person.
Acquisitions - The directors plan to expand and develop  
the business through a strategy of targeted acquisitions.  
The risk exists that integration of any acquired business will be 
unsuccessful or that key employees or clients of the acquired 
business will be lost. Directors will attempt to mitigate this risk  
by careful due diligence and communication with the clients of 
target companies. The directors will also seek to communicate 
YouGov's strategy to staff and ensure that levels of remuneration 
and benefits are appropriate to retain key employees.
The Company may be unable to agree suitable terms with the 
shareholders of a target company and be forced to abandon an 
attempted takeover. This may happen after management have 
invested significant amounts of time and effort as well as 
accruing advisers' fees.
Technology and risk - A strong software platform is essential 
for carrying out online research. This software must be 
reviewed and updated on a regular basis to ensure that it does 
not become superseded by newer technologies in other 
companies. YouGov has sought to remain competitive in this 
area by recruiting an experienced team of software specialists 
with responsibility for developing the proprietary software 
systems. Employees in this area must provide 3 months notice 
on departure and YouGov has developed a succession planning 
document with sufficient detail on the structure of proprietary 
software applications and the IT infrastructure to assist in an 
orderly transition period in the event of staff leaving. A disaster 
recovery plan is in place. 