 08 Balfour Beatty plc
Directors' report and accounts 2007 
Principal risks and risk management
Risk management process
Principal risks and risk management
The following table shows the key business risks, which are then 
addressed below.
Risk group                                                                                          Type of risk
  External                                                        Government policy and funding
                                                                         Customer
  Strategic                                                      Bidding 
                                                                         Joint venture
                                                                         Acquisition
                                                                         Investment
  Organisation and management                 People
                                                                         Pension
                                                                         Information technology
  Delivery and operational                            Asset and service delivery and
management
                                                                         Supply chain
                                                                         Financial
                                                                         Health and safety
                                                                         Environmental
External risks
The Group addresses continually the impact of the external business
environment, updating as appropriate its strategy and medium-term 
planning both at Group and operating company level. Areas of focus include 
the following:
Government policy and funding risk
A significant proportion of the Group' s revenue flows from contracts founded
upon government policy and/or public funding, both in the UK and overseas. 
The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to an adverse change in national
policy or funding by broadening incrementally the portfolio of dependency and
by diversifying on a measured and controlled basis into other areas of activity,
as referred to in the Chief Executive' s review from page 8 of the Annual review
and summary financial statement.
Customer risk
The increasing demand from customers for innovation and the provision of
professional services, whether as a discrete contract or as a component in 
a contract, has been sustained. The Group has in place its own specialist
operating company with such skills, which along with selected operating
companies is developing further such capabilities.
Strategic risks
Additionally, in the pursuit of business opportunities the Group is particularly
aware of the potential for importing risk, whether by way of winning new
contracts, forming joint ventures, acquiring businesses or investment. Rigorous
processes are therefore in place for managing such exposure within a specified
opportunity and risk management framework that applies to all operating
companies and Group functions, as follows: 
The identification, assessment, pursuit and management of opportunities and
the associated risks is an integral and inseparable part of management skills
and processes. These are a core element of activity throughout the Group and,
as such, are especially important for stakeholders.
As referred to in the Directors' report, under the heading Risk
management  on page 13, a Group-wide opportunity and risk management
system underpins and assists in the delivery of this principle. 
The system is founded upon a process that drives perceived opportunities 
and risks progressively, against formal impact and likelihood rating criteria, 
up through the management chain for review and challenge. 
In addition to a discrete review of each individual opportunity and risk,
various exercises are carried out at Group level, three times a year, to identify
key issues facing the Group as a whole, the changing risk profile facing the
Group and emerging issues that may affect the Group, as well as to assess if
the aggregation effect of lower-level risks is material. Such reviews identify 
the extent to which further initiatives are required, for example, to develop
specific additional risk management capability and mitigation measures. 
The output from these reviews is contained in reports to the Board and 
Audit Committee
Furthermore, senior management at operating company and Group 
level review regularly the opportunity and risk management system and 
its application with a view to identifying potential improvements to the 
system and/or its application. The output from these reviews is captured in
development plans, which are reviewed at Group level. Progress against the
plans is reported upon three times a year to Group senior management and 
the Board and Audit Committee. Occasionally, independent third parties are
engaged to assist the Group with the identification and implementation of
potential improvements.
Business objectives
are defined
Opportunities and
risks are identified
Benefits and risks 
are assessed 
and quantified
Action plans are
developed to 
mitigate risks
Risk mitigation
delivery is reviewed
on an ongoing basis
Periodic reviews 
up to Board level Our business 
09 Balfour Beatty plc
Directors' report and accounts 2007 
Bidding risk 
The Group' s operating companies bid selectively for a large number of contracts
each year and a more limited number of concession opportunities. Tenders and
investment appraisals are developed in accordance with thorough processes for
estimating and risk identification and assessment, with particular attention to
new or unique characteristics. They are subject to formal review and approval
by tender review and investment committees established at Board, sector or
operating company level depending upon the value and nature of the contract.
Joint venture risk 
Joint ventures are formed for contracts where to do so will strengthen the
quality of the bid and prospects of delivering a contract successfully. Procedures
are in place to ensure that joint venture partners bring skills, experience and
resources that complement and add to those provided from within the Group.
Acquisition risk 
Potential acquisitions are identified by the operating companies and subject 
to review with Group management to address, inter alia, the strategic fit 
and the capacity of the Group to manage the projected level of growth. 
Group management project manages the due diligence, with the operating
company drawing on its own resources and those from other parts of the Group
in order to ensure that the most appropriate personnel with relevant experience
and knowledge conduct the detailed due diligence. Where necessary, specialist
external resources are engaged. Post-acquisition integration is closely
managed, drawing on the detailed due diligence material and integration
tracker system for each functional activity, with reviews conducted formally 
at prescribed periods following the acquisition. As the Group grows it
recognises that acquisitions may bring new approaches to opportunity and 
risk management from which the Group can learn and these are factored into
reviews of potential improvements referred to under the introduction above.
Investment risk 
The Group' s basic approach is the pursuit of investment opportunities on a
limited recourse finance basis in those business sectors where it has
appropriate experience. It uses this platform as a basis for moving incrementally
into new sectors with appropriate partners. The degree of leverage associated
with such investments reinforces the need for the application of a rigorous risk
management process drawing on standard operating procedures. Such activity
is conducted by a discrete group of personnel with extensive experience in the
relevant fields of activity. The consequent delivery risk arising on investment
activities is managed and mitigated by the careful selection of delivery and
service partners.
Organisation and management risk
Similarly, a premium is placed by the Group on the review, development and
maintenance of the operating fabric and culture that is fundamental to
managing risks. Attention is being paid to the following:
People risk
The retention and recruitment of staff for an organisation that is continually
growing significantly, either organically or by acquisition, is a challenge faced 
by the Group and the industries in which it operates. 
The Group utilises a range of recruitment processes relevant to specific
labour markets. The recruitment of graduates is centrally managed and co-
ordinated as is their induction and training.
Remuneration and incentive policies and programmes are designed to be
market competitive and, while locally determined, are centrally co-ordinated.
Pension risk
The Financial review from page 4, together with Note 26 to the accounts,
addresses the Group' s pension risks.
Information technology risk
The Group is conscious of the reliance placed on IT systems as a platform 
for efficient delivery of day-to-day operational activities and for knowledge
gathering and sharing. Following an internal review, supported by an
independent third party review team, the Group has positioned itself to respond
more rapidly to increasing demands in this area by augmenting its central 
IT team to work with operating companies and Group functions to develop 
and deliver further improvements in line with the Group' s IT and disaster
recovery strategies.
Delivery and operational risks
In delivering contracts and business improvement initiatives, rigorous processes
are in place for managing the potential risk exposure:
Asset and service delivery and management risk 
The Group is engaged on a wide range of contracts eg asset creation, 
long-term maintenance, facilities management and/or service contracts, 
with the successful discharge of all contracts being controlled and managed
through the Group' s operating structure. The Group' s procedures embrace
regular and frequent reviews with an agenda centred on health, safety and
environmental performance, issues affecting delivery and the impact on costs to
completion and forecast revenue. This approach is underpinned by a continuing
focus on assurance as to the effectiveness of the relevant controls.
Supply chain risk
An increasing proportion of the Group' s supply base is retained in long-term
relationships based on the compatibility of their values and behaviour with the
requirements of the Group as well as product quality and price. 
Financial risk
The Financial review from page 4, together with Note 21 to the accounts,
addresses the Group' s financial and treasury risks. 
Health, safety and environmental risks
The Group has sustained the attention it gives to HS&E, along with a continuing
objective of improving its performance, as reported on in more detail in the
Corporate Responsibility statement from page 44 of the Annual review and
summary financial statement.