  
 16
Beacon Hill Resources Plc 
 
Corporate governance 
 
 
The Board believes that good corporate governance improves corporate performance and benefits all 
shareholders and Beacon Hill has adopted a formal written corporate governance statement.  .   
 
This section sets out the Company's approach to corporate governance. 
 
Principle 1 - Lay solid foundations for management and oversight 
 
The Company is managed by a Board of Directors.  
 
The Company considers that it has an effective Board that has been structured in such a way that it:   
  has a proper understanding of, and is competent to deal with, the current and emer ging issues affecting the 
business; 
  exercises independent judgement; 
  encourages enhanced performance of the Company; and 
  can effectively review and challenge the performance of management.  
 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and the Board is responsible for: 
  increasing shareholder value through leadership and direction of the Company; 
  formulating, reviewing and approving the Company's strategy; 
  budgeting and reviewing financial performance; 
  ensuring adequate capital resources are available to the Company; 
  reporting to shareholders; 
  compliance; and  
  corporate governance. 
 
The Board effectively delegates the day to day managemen t of the Company to the Managing Director and the 
Executive Management team. 
 
The Executive Directors are responsible for evaluat ing the performance of senior management.  The 
performance of each member of the senior management team is assessed on an informal basis throughout the 
year and on a formal basis once a year.   
 
Principle 2 - Structure the Board to add value 
 
This Principle requires the Company to have a Board of effective composition, size and commitment to 
adequately discharge its responsibilities and duties.   
 
he Board is required to consist of Directors with an appropriate mix of skills, experience and personal attributes 
that allow the Directors individually and the Board collectively to supervise the operations of the Company.   
 
The Board has  4 Directors:  
  Justin Farr-Jones (Non-executive Chairman); 
  Rowan Karstel (Managing Director) 
  Murray d'Almeida (Independent Non-executive Director)  
  Christian Ramirez (Non-executive Director) 
 
The Board acknowledges that the Board of Directors doe s not currently comprise a majority of independent 
Directors.  However, the Board believes that all of its Directors exercise due care and skill with respect to the 
matters which they consider and bring objective judgement to bear in decision making.    
 
    
 17
Beacon Hill Resources Plc 
 
Corporate governance (continued) 
 
 
Principle 2 - Structure the Board to add value (continued) 
 
The Board undertakes the role of a nomination committee given the size and scale of the Company's operations.  
The Board's policy for nomination and appointment of Director s is to fulfil its responsibilities to shareholders by 
ensuring that the Board is comprised of individuals w ho are best able to discharge their responsibilities as 
Directors, having regard to the law and the highest standards of governance.   
 
The specific responsibilities that the Board has u ndertaken in completing the nomination committee's role 
include:  
  regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board 
  evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board;  
  identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies 
  making recommendations concerning the re-election by Shareholders of Direct ors who have retired by 
rotation; and  
  making recommendations concerning the re-election by Shareholders of Direct ors to the positions of 
Chairman and Managing Director.   
 
Details on each Director's relevant skills, experience and expertise, as well as their independence status and 
period in office can be found on www.bhrplc.com 
 
All Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Company's expense. 
 
Principle 3 - Promote ethical and responsible decision making 
 
Beacon Hill has established a code of conduct to provide Directors and employees' guidance on what is deemed 
acceptable behaviour.  Specifically, the Company require s all Directors and employees to maintain the highest 
standards of integrity and honesty.  A copy of the code of conduct for Directors and employees is available on the 
Company's website www.bhrplc.com 
 
Principle 4 - Safeguard integrity in financial reporting  
 
Beacon Hill is committed to a transparent system for auditing and reporting of the Company's financial 
performance.  The Board has established an audit committee which performs a central function in achieving this 
goal.   
 
The purpose of the audit committee is to:  
  give the Board of Directors of the Company critical and independent advice on the integrity of the Company's 
financial statements and to provide a forum at whic h any employee of the Comp any or other interested 
person, such as the Company's auditors, can discuss financial matters concerning the Company;  
  be available on an ad hoc basis to consider and resolve any financial problems relating to the Company;  
  to ensure a thorough and detailed review is carried out by non-executive Director s of audit matters before 
approval by the Board; and 
To investigate audit matters with full access to information and the resources to do so.   
 
The audit committee is currently comprised of Murray d'Almeida (Chairman of the committee) and Justin Farr-
Jones.   
 
The Board notes that it is compliant with the requirem ents of the UK Corporate Governance Code which requires 
a two-member audit committee for smaller companies (defined as those note within the FTSE-350 index).   
 
The audit committee is governed by a terms of reference' which are similar in nature to a committee charter.   
 
The Audit Committee Terms of Reference is available from the Company's website www.bhrplc.com 
 
    
 18
Beacon Hill Resources Plc 
 
Corporate governance (continued) 
 
 
Principle 5 - Make timely and balanced disclosure 
 
The Company has been listed on the AIM since 14 August 2006 and has at all times complied with its continuous 
disclosure obligations under the AIM Rules for Companies.  
 
The Company has a continuous disclosure policy which is compliant with the AIM Rules for Companies.   
 
Under the AIM Rules for Companies, Beacon Hill is requi red to issue notification without delay of any new 
developments which are not public knowledge concerning a change in the following factors that if made public, 
would be likely to lead to a substantial movement in the price of its AIM securities:  
  financial condition 
  sphere of activity 
  performance of its business 
  expectation of its performance 
 
All disclosures to the AIM are reviewed and authorised by the Company and Beacon Hill's nominated advisor in 
the UK to ensure that Company anno uncements are timeous, factual, do not omit material information and are 
expressed in a clear and objective manner that allows in vestors to access the impact of the information when 
making investment decisions.   
 
The Company's continuous disclosure policy is contained within the Company's corporate governance statement, 
which is available on the Company's website www.bhrplc.com 
 
Principle 6 - Respect the rights of shareholders 
 
Beacon Hill is focussed on communica ting effectively with the Company's shareholders, giving them ready 
access to balanced and understandable information about t he Company and corporate proposals and making it 
easy for these shareholders to participate in general meetings.   
 
The Company Secretary, the Managing Director and the Chairman are responsible for: 
  overseeing and co-coordinating disclosure of inform ation to the relevant stock exchanges and shareholder; 
and 
  providing guidance to Directors and employees on disclosure requirements and procedures.   
 
Beacon Hill's primary means of communicating with its shareholders is via the Company's announcements on the 
AIM via the Company's website www.bhrplc.com.   
 
The Company regularly updates the following information on the website: 
  company announcements;  
  recent presentations made to media, analysts and investors;  
  notices of meetings and explanatory material;  
  financial information; and  
  annual reports 
 
The Company's communication's policy is contained within the Company's corporate governance statement, 
which is available on the Company's website. 
    
 19
Beacon Hill Resources Plc 
 
Corporate governance (continued) 
 
 
Principle 7 - Recognise and manage risk 
 
The Board constantly monitors the operational and fi nancial aspects of the Company's activities and is 
responsible for the implementation and ongoing review of business risks that could affect the Company. While 
the Board does not currently have a formal risk management policy in place, the Board believes that it operates a 
sufficiently rigorous risk framework appropriate to a Company of its size and scope.   
 
Duties in relation to risk management that are conducted by the Board of Directors include but are not limited to: 
  identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing risks in an effective and efficient manner; 
  using risk management to assist the business with decision making 
  identifying and evaluating opportunities based on their risk/reward balance; 
  communicating and consulting internally and externally as appropriate; and  
  informing investors of material changes to the Company's risk profile.   
 
Ongoing review of the overall risk management program is conducted by external parties where appropriate.  The 
Board ensures that recommendations m ade by external parties are invest igated and where deemed necessary 
appropriate action is taken to ensure that the Company has a suitable internal control environment in place to 
manage the key risks identified.   
 
Risk management duties that are unde rtaken by the Board of Directors are availabl e from the corporate 
governance statement, which is available on the Company's website www.bhrplc.com. 
 
Principle 8 - Remunerate fairly and responsibly 
 
Beacon Hill has a remuneration committee.  The purpo se of the remuneration committee is to determine and 
review the remuneration of executives on behalf of the Board of Directors and to ensure that the remuneration 
policies and packages attract, retain and motivate quality Directors while not exceeding market rates. 
 
The remuneration committee is comprised of Murray d' Almeida (Chairman of the committee) and Justin Farr-
Jones.  The remuneration committee reviews the performance of executive Directors and sets their remuneration, 
determines the payment of bonuses to executive Directors and considers the fu ture allocation of share options to 
Directors and employees. 
 
The Company distinguishes between the remuneration structure of non-executive Directors' and that of executive 
Directors and senior executives.  Executive Directors' and s enior executives' remunera tion packages involve a 
balance between fixed and incentive pay, reflecting sh ort and long-term performance objectives appropriate to 
the Company's circumstances and goals.   
 
The remuneration committee is governed by a  Terms of Reference' which is available from the Company's 
website www.bhrplc.com.   
 
 
 