 17 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
Following the publication of the Combined Code which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority (the Code ) the Board has reviewed its Corporate Governance practices and an
explanation of how the Principles of Good Governance have been applied are contained in this report and
the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 11 to 16.
The Company was in compliance with the Combined Code throughout the period, with the following
exceptions:
   The Company did not have a Nominations Committee, which is required by Code provision A5.1
until 28 November 2003.
   The Audit Committee did not comprise three Non-Executive Directors, which is required by Code
provision D.3.1 until the appointment of R M T eare on 28 February 2003.  The Audit Committee
now comprises three Non-Executive Directors.
   The notice period for certain executive directors is two years as explained in the Directors'
Remuneration Report on page 13.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and this statement describes
how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with
the code provisions set out in Part 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Group Objectives and Board of Directors
The objective of the Group is to build quality homes at realistic prices for its customers whilst securing the
optimum return from its assets for the benefit of its shareholders.
Following the appointment of R M Teare on 28 February 2003, the Board now comprises three Non-
Executive Directors who are all considered to be independent.  R M Teare, a former partner in
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has not been involved with the audit of the Company for nearly three years
and is considered to be independent.  B Leesing was appointed to the Board in 1989.  Notwithstanding this
fact the Board considers that he is independent and his knowledge and experience of the Company and the
house building sector are invaluable.  The Board considers that this composition now provides an
appropriate segregation of responsibilities, and independent non-executive director representation for the
current size of the Group.  One third of directors, including Non-Executive Directors, are subject to
retirement by rotation annually .
Individual profiles of the directors are given on page 6.  The Board has the necessary knowledge and
experience to achieve the stated objectives of the Group and retain effective control over the Group.
Board Practices
The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and not less than nine times per annum to monitor the
performance of the Group, to authorise capital expenditure and purchases of land, to approve annual budgets
and to monitor business performance.  Strategy on interest rate exposures is also reserved for the Board.  In
the year ended 31 December 2003, the Board met nine times.  Information is provided to the Board in a
detailed and timely manner in order to allow informed decisions to be taken on all matters.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of reserved powers as well as an agreed procedure for a director
to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Group's expense, and to have full access to the
services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board procedures
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.  Directors' and Officers' Liability
Insurance is in place for directors and officers.
55485 Ben Bailey 07-40  25/2/2004  4:32 pm  Page 17 18 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board Committees
Audit Committee B Leesing  (Chairman)
B R Bailey
A M Peacock
R M T eare
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, which meets three times a year, include the appointment of
and liaison with external auditors, the review of annual and interim financial statements and the review of
the suitability and effectiveness of the Group's internal controls.  The Committee reviews the findings of
the external auditors and reviews key accounting policies and judgements.  It also reviews the independence
of the external auditors on an annual basis.
The fees relating to non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are disclosed in note 6 to
the accounts.  The main area of non-audit work relates to the provision of taxation compliance work and
taxation advice.  The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work and has concluded that this
level of fee does not affect the independence of the Audit.
Remuneration Committee B Leesing  (Chairman)
A M Peacock
R M T eare
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include the recommendation of terms of
employment, including remuneration, and grant of bonuses and share options for all executive directors, as
may be appropriate from time to time.
Under Resolution 2  the Remuneration Committee report will be put before shareholders for adoption at
the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2004.  
Nominations Committee B R Bailey  (Chairman)
B Leesing
A M Peacock
R M T eare
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee include the identification and recommendation to the
Board of suitable Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Board Remuneration
The Group's Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy that applies to executive directors
and senior management of the Group.  In setting the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee
considers the basic salary and benefits available to executive directors of comparable companies, the need to
attract and retain directors of an appropriate calibre, and the need to ensure the commitment of executive
directors to the continued success of the Group. Bonus packages for executive directors are linked to the
Group's objective of securing optimum return from its assets for the benefit of its shareholders.
Shareholder Communication
The majority of the shareholders of the Group are private individuals.  Presentations to City Analysts have
been made in the past year.  All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting at which
they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
55485 Ben Bailey 07-40  25/2/2004  4:32 pm  Page 18 Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group's financial statements.
Internal Control
The Group's control environment is the responsibility of the Group's directors and managers at all levels.
The Board is, therefore, responsible for the Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Although no control system can provide absolute protection against material mis-statement or
loss, it is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide the directors
with reasonable assurance that problems should be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately .
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control for the period.  The
Group has reviewed its operations and identified risk areas which have been assessed for their potential
impact on the business.  The size of the Group, together with the fact that virtually all of the Group's
operations derive from one company, Ben Bailey Homes Limited, allows the Executive Directors of the
Group to monitor performance, evaluate and manage on a continual basis the risks faced by the Group.  No
internal audit function is considered necessary .
The key features of the Group's internal controls are as follows:
   Defined authorisation levels for the purchases of land and capital expenditure.
   Defined authorisation levels for the placing of orders and contracts.
   A formalised reporting structure which includes the setting of detailed annual budgets which are
updated on a regular basis to form forecasts which are reviewed at both Group and Subsidiary
Company Board level.
   Monthly Board/Executive Meetings are held within Ben Bailey Homes Limited at which all key
aspects of the business are discussed including comparison of actual performance compared with
budgets.
   A monthly meeting is held within Ben Bailey Homes Limited to review the production progress on
all sites, sales position, technical and development issues arising from each development.
   All sites are visited on a monthly basis by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive together
with the Construction, Technical and Sales Directors of Ben Bailey Homes Limited to review
progress on site.
   The Group's reporting systems provide weekly updates on key statistics including sales, production
and gross margin analysis by development.
   Daily cash movements are reconciled and monitored by the Finance Director.  The Group's cashflow
is also monitored monthly in comparison to budget and forecast.
The Board reviews management letters prepared by the external auditors and considers the suitability of
suggested improvements to the system of internal financial controls.
By order of the Board
S W North 2 March 2004
Company Secretary
19 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
55485 Ben Bailey 07-40  25/2/2004  4:32 pm  Page 19