 17 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
Following the publication of the Combined Code which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority (the Code ), the Board has continued to review its Corporate Governance practices and
an explanation of how the Principles of Good Governance have been applied are contained in this report and
the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 11 to 16.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and this statement describes
how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with
the code provisions set out in Part 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, the Company has complied with the
provisions recommended in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exception:
  B R Bailey, Chairman and executive director of the Board has been a member of the Audit
Committee.
Group Objectives and Board of Directors
The objective of the Group is to build quality homes at realistic prices for its customers whilst securing the
optimum return from its assets for the benefit of its shareholders.
The Board comprises three Non-Executive Directors who are all considered to be independent. B Leesing
was appointed to the Board in 1989.  Notwithstanding this fact the Board considers that he is independent
and his knowledge and experience of the Company and the house building sector are invaluable. The Board
considers that this composition now provides an appropriate segregation of responsibilities, and independent
non-executive director representation for the current size of the Group. One third of directors, including
Non-Executive Directors, are subject to retirement by rotation annually .
Individual profiles of the directors are given on page 6. The Board has the necessary knowledge and
experience to achieve the stated objectives of the Group and retain effective control over the Group.
Board Practices
The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and not less than eight times per annum to monitor the
performance of the Group, to authorise capital expenditure and purchases of land, to approve annual budgets
and to monitor business performance. Strategy on interest rate exposures is approved by the Board. In the
year ended 31 December 2005, the Board met eight times. Information is provided to the Board in a detailed
and timely manner in order to allow informed decisions to be taken on all matters.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of reserved powers as well as an agreed procedure for a director
to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Group's expense, and to have full access to the
services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board procedures
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Directors' and Officers' Liability
Insurance is in place for directors and officers.
The Board is scheduled to hold ten meetings in 2006 and adhoc meetings may be convened to deal with
urgent matters.
60227 Ben Bailey 07-40  24/2/06  11:37 am  Page 17 18 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at Board and principal Board Committee
meetings for the period under review:
Annual
Main Audit Remuneration Nominations General
Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting
No. of Meetings held83111
Director
B R Bailey 7 2 - 1 1
P A Russell 8 3 (a) - - 1
S W North 8 3 (a) - - 1
B Leesing 83111
A M Peacock 62111
R M T eare 83111
Note: (a) In attendance by invitation only .
In the instances when a Director has not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, his comments
on the papers to be considered at that meeting have been relayed in advance to the Company Secretary .
Board Committees
Audit Committee B Leesing (Chairman)
B R Bailey
A M Peacock
R M T eare
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, which meets three times a year, include the appointment of
and liaison with external auditors, the review of annual and interim financial statements and the review of
the suitability and effectiveness of the Group's internal controls. The Committee reviews the findings of the
external auditors and reviews key accounting policies and judgements. It also reviews the independence of
the external auditors on an annual basis.
The fees relating to non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are disclosed in Note 6 to
the accounts. The main area of non-audit work relates to the provision of taxation compliance work and
taxation advice. The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work and has concluded that this
level of fee does not affect the independence of the Audit.
Remuneration Committee B Leesing (Chairman)
A M Peacock
R M T eare
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include the recommendation of terms of
employment, including remuneration, and grant of bonuses and share options for all executive directors, as
may be appropriate from time to time.
Under Resolution 2 the Remuneration Committee report will be put before shareholders for approval at the
Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2006.
Nominations Committee B R Bailey (Chairman)
B Leesing
A M Peacock
R M T eare
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee include the identification and recommendation to the
Board of suitable Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
60227 Ben Bailey 07-40  24/2/06  11:37 am  Page 18 Board Remuneration
The Group's Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy that applies to executive directors
and senior management of the Group. In setting the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee
considers the basic salary and benefits available to executive directors of comparable companies, the need to
attract and retain directors of an appropriate calibre, and the need to ensure the commitment of executive
directors to the continued success of the Group. Bonus packages for executive directors are linked to the
Group's objective of securing optimum return from its assets for the benefit of its shareholders.
Shareholder Communication
The majority of the shareholders of the Group are private individuals. Presentations to City Analysts have
been made in the past year by the Chief Executive and Finance Director. All shareholders are welcome to
attend the Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
Performance Evaluation
During 2005, the Board undertook performance evaluations for the Board and its principal committees.
This process will be repeated on an annual basis.
This performance evaluation covered assessment of the working of the Board and assessment of each
individual director's contribution to the working of the Board. The appraisals of Non-Executive Directors
were carried out by the Chairman.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are subject to an appraisal of their performance as executive
directors which is conducted by the Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively .
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group's financial statements.
Internal Control
The Group's control environment is the responsibility of the Group's directors and managers at all levels.
The Board is, therefore, responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Although no control system can provide absolute protection against material mis-statement or
loss, it is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide the directors
with reasonable assurance that problems should be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately .
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control throughout the period
and up to the date of this report. In accordance with the T urnball Guidance the Group has reviewed its
operations and identified risk areas, which have been assessed for their potential impact on the business. The
size of the Group, together with the fact that virtually all of the Group's operations derive from one
company , Ben Bailey Homes Limited, allows the Executive Directors of the Group to monitor performance,
evaluate and manage on a continual basis the risks faced by the Group. No internal audit function is
considered necessary . The need for an internal audit function is reviewed annually .
19 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
60227 Ben Bailey 07-40  24/2/06  11:37 am  Page 19 Corporate Governance (continued)
The key features of the Group's internal controls are as follows:
  Defined authorisation levels for the purchases of land and capital expenditure.
  Defined authorisation levels for the placing of orders and contracts.
  A formalised reporting structure which includes the setting of detailed annual budgets, which are
updated on a regular basis to form forecasts, which are reviewed at both Group and Subsidiary
Company Board level.
  Monthly Board/Executive Meetings are held within Ben Bailey Homes Limited at which all key
aspects of the business are discussed including comparison of actual performance compared with
budgets.
  A monthly meeting is held within Ben Bailey Homes Limited to review the production progress on
all sites, sales position, technical and development issues arising from each development.
  All sites are visited on a monthly basis by the Group Chairman together with the Construction,
Development and Sales Directors of Ben Bailey Homes Limited to review progress on site. During
2005, the Non-Executive Directors have on one occasion attended these site visits.
  The Group's reporting systems provide weekly updates on key statistics including sales, production
and gross margin analysis by development.
  Daily cash movements are reconciled and monitored by the Finance Director. The Group's cashflow
is also monitored monthly in comparison to budget and forecast.
The Board reviews management letters prepared by the external auditors and considers the suitability of
suggested improvements to the system of internal financial controls.
By order of the Board
S W North
Company Secretary 28 February 2006
20 Ben Bailey Plc
60227 Ben Bailey 07-40  24/2/06  11:37 am  Page 20