 17 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
Following the publication of the Combined Code (2003) which is appended to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority (the Code ), the Board has continued to review its Corporate Governance
practices and an explanation of how the Principles of Good Governance have been applied are contained in
this report and the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 12 to 16 .
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and this statement describes
how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with
the code provisions set out in Part 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, the Company has complied with the
provisions recommended in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exception:
  B R Bailey, Chairman and executive director of the Board, has been a member of the Audit
Committee.
Group Objectives and Board of Directors
The objective of the Group is to build quality homes at realistic prices for its customers whilst securing the
optimum return from its assets for the benefit of its shareholders.
The Board comprises three Non-Executive Directors who are all considered to be independent. The Board
considers that the current composition provides an appropriate segregation of responsibilities and
independent non-executive director representation for the current size of the Group. One third of directors,
including Non-Executive Directors, are subject to retirement by rotation annually .
Individual profiles of the directors are given on page 8. The Board has the necessary knowledge and
experience to achieve the stated objectives of the Group and retain effective control over the Group.
Board Practices
The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and not less than eight times per annum to monitor the
performance of the Group, to authorise capital expenditure and purchases of land, to approve annual budgets
and to monitor business performance.  Strategy on interest rate exposures is approved by the Board.  In the
year ended 31 December 2006, the Board met sixteen times. Information is provided to the Board in a
detailed and timely manner in order to allow informed decisions to be taken on all matters.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of reserved powers as well as an agreed procedure for a director
to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Group's expense, and to have full access to the
services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board procedures
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Directors' and Officers' Liability
Insurance is in place for directors and officers. This insurance does not cover any fraudulent or dishonest
actions.
The Board is scheduled to hold ten meetings in 2007 and ad hoc meetings may be convened to deal with
urgent matters.
62504 Ben Bailey 09-48  12/3/07  10:37  Page 17 18 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at scheduled monthly Board meetings and
principal Board Committee meetings for the period under review:
Annual
Main Audit Remuneration Nominations General
Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting
No. of Meetings held10 3411
Director
B R Bailey 10 3 4(*) 1 1
P A Russell 9 - 1(*) - 1
A M Peacock 9 2411
R M T eare 10 3411
S W North (a) 7 2(*) - - 1
B Leesing (b) 8 2311
C M McDowell (c) 3 1 1 - -
N J Godfrey (d) 3 1(*) 2(*) - -
Notes: 
(*) In attendance by invitation only.
(a) S W North retired on 11 August 2006
(b) B Leesing retired on 29 September 2006
(c) C M McDowell was appointed on 3 July 2006
(d) N J Godfrey was appointed on 21 August 2006
S W North, B Leesing and N J Godfrey attended all scheduled monthly Board meetings they were eligible to attend, C M McDowell gave
apologies in respect of two scheduled monthly Board meetings he was eligible to attend.
In addition to the scheduled monthly Board meetings there were a further six meetings in 2006 which were
attended by executive directors and dealt with more immediate business. In the instances when a Director
has not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, his comments on the papers to be considered at
that meeting have been relayed in advance to the Company Secretary .
Board Committees
Audit Committee C M McDowell  (Chairman)
B R Bailey
R M T eare
A M Peacock
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, which meets three times a year, include the appointment of
and liaison with external auditors, the review of annual and interim financial statements and the review of
the suitability and effectiveness of the Group's internal controls. The Committee reviews the findings of the
external auditors and reviews key accounting policies and judgements.  It also reviews the independence of
the external auditors on an annual basis.
The fees relating to non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are disclosed in note 6 to
the accounts. The main area of non-audit work relates to the provision of taxation compliance work and
taxation advice. The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work and has concluded that this
level of fee does not affect the independence of the audit.
62504 Ben Bailey 09-48  12/3/07  10:37  Page 18 19 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
Remuneration Committee R M T eare (Chairman)
A M Peacock
C M McDowell
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include the recommendation of terms of
employment, including remuneration, and grant of bonuses and share options for all executive directors, as
may be appropriate from time to time.
Under Resolution 2 the Remuneration Committee report will be put before shareholders for approval at the
Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2007.  
Nominations Committee B R Bailey (Chairman)
R M T eare
A M Peacock
C M McDowell
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee include the identification and recommendation to the
Board of suitable Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Board Remuneration
The Group's Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy that applies to executive directors
and senior management of the Group. In setting the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee
considers the basic salary and benefits available to executive directors of comparable companies, the need to
attract and retain directors of an appropriate calibre, and the need to ensure the commitment of executive
directors to the continued success of the Group. Bonus packages for executive directors are linked to the
Group's objective of securing optimum return from its assets for the benefit of its shareholders. No director
participates in the decision on his own remuneration.
Shareholder Communication
The majority of the shareholders of the Group are private individuals. Presentations to City Analysts have
been made in the past year by the Chief Executive and Finance Director. All shareholders are welcome to
attend the Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
Performance Evaluation
During 2006, the Board undertook performance evaluations of the Board and its principal committees. This
process will be repeated on an annual basis.
This performance evaluation covered assessment of the working of the Board and assessment of each
individual director's contribution to the working of the Board. The appraisals of Non-Executive Directors
were carried out by the Chairman.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are subject to an appraisal of their performance as executive
directors which is conducted by the Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively .  
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group's financial statements.
62504 Ben Bailey 09-48  12/3/07  10:37  Page 19 20 Ben Bailey Plc
Corporate Governance (continued) 
Internal Control
The Group's control environment is the responsibility of the Group's directors and managers at all levels.
The Board is, therefore, responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Although no control system can provide absolute protection against material mis-statement or
loss, it is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide the directors
with reasonable assurance that problems should be identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately .
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control throughout the period
and up to the date of this report. In accordance with the T urnbull Guidance, the Group has reviewed its
operations and identified risk areas, which have been assessed for their potential impact on the business.  
The size of the Group, together with the fact that virtually all of the Group's operations derive from one
company , Ben Bailey Homes Limited, allows the Executive Directors of the Group to monitor performance,
evaluate and manage on a continual basis the risks faced by the Group. No internal audit function is
considered necessary . The need for an internal audit function is reviewed annually .
The key features of the Group's internal controls are as follows:
  Defined authorisation levels for the purchases of land and capital expenditure.
  Defined authorisation levels for the placing of orders and contracts.
  A formalised reporting structure which includes the setting of detailed annual budgets, which are
updated on a regular basis to form forecasts and which are reviewed by the Board.
  Bi-monthly Board/Executive Meetings are held within Ben Bailey Homes Limited at which all key
aspects of the business are discussed including comparison of actual performance with budgets.
  A monthly meeting is held within Ben Bailey Homes Limited to review the production progress on
all sites, sales position, technical and development issues arising from each development.  
  All sites are visited on a monthly basis by the Group Chairman together with the Construction,
Development and Sales Directors of Ben Bailey Homes Limited to review progress on site. 
During 2006, the Non-Executive Directors have on one occasion attended these site visits.
  The Group's reporting systems provide weekly updates on key statistics including sales, production
and gross margin analysis by development.
  Daily cash movements are reconciled and monitored by the Finance Director. The Group's cash flow
is also monitored monthly in comparison with budget and forecast.
The Board reviews management letters prepared by the external auditors and considers the suitability of
suggested improvements to the system of internal financial controls.
By order of the Board
N J Godfrey 23 February 2007
Company Secretary
62504 Ben Bailey 09-48  12/3/07  10:37  Page 20