 Corporate Governance
30 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report 2003
The Company is committed to attaining high standards of corporate governance in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code
published in June 1998 and the supplementary guidance  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors' (The Turnbull Report) published in
September 1999. The Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Higgs Review on Non-executive Directors and the Smith Report
on Audit Committees, both published in January 2003, which will result in a revised Combined Code. In anticipation of such revision, the
Board is giving full consideration to these recommendations.
The principles of the Combined Code and how the Company has complied with them are set out below.
The Board - membership and operation
The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Managing Director, four further Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors. Their
biographies appear on pages 18 and 19. The roles of Chairman and Managing Director are split and there exists a strong non-executive
element on the Board. The Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be independent. Mr F Wellings is the Senior Independent
Non-executive Director. No Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for predetermined
compensation on termination.
One-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year. All the Directors being proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting have a 364-day notice period.
The Board meetings are held four times a year and scheduled with the agreement of the Directors before the start of the year. Board
papers and agendas are sent out in advance of each meeting. All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and
independent professional advisers at the Company's expense. Training is available for new Directors and existing Directors as and 
when required.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board as a whole. However, various matters have been delegated 
to Committees as follows:
Executive Committee This Committee is chaired by the Group Managing Director and other members comprise the Group Chairman, 
Mr A Carey, Mr G J Fry and Mr R C Perrins. The Committee reviews the financial and operating performance of all Group companies and
divisions. The Committee meets on a monthly basis.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises the three Non-executive Directors with Mr F Wellings as Chairman. The
Committee reviews the annual and interim financial statements prior to publication, considers the scope and nature of external and 
internal audits and matters arising from the audits, and reviews the Company's proposed statement on internal control. The Audit
Committee meets at least three times a year and will normally request the attendance of the Group Finance Director and representatives 
of the auditors. The auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary. Copies of the minutes
of the Audit Committee meetings are distributed to Board members.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the three Non-executive Directors with Mrs V M Mitchell 
as Chairman. The Board has had regard to the principles of good governance, Section B: Directors' Remuneration, annexed to the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. These provisions state that the Remuneration Committee should consist exclusively of
Non-executive Directors and should consult with the Group Chairman and/or Group Managing Director. The Remuneration Committee is
responsible for determining the Company's broad policy for executive remuneration and the terms of employment and remuneration of the
Executive Directors. The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 23 to 29. The Committee meets at least twice a year.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises the three Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors, 
Mr A W Pidgley and Mr R St J H Lewis who acts as Chairman. The Committee was established to propose new appointments to the
Board, whether the appointment is of an Executive or Non-executive Director. The Committee meets as and when required.
Long Term Executive Incentive Scheme Committee The Long Term Executive Incentive Scheme Committee currently comprises the
same membership as the Remuneration Committee, save that the Group Managing Director is a member. This Committee is responsible
for the operation of the long term executive incentive schemes, further details of which are set out on page 24. No member of the
Committee is participating in these schemes. The Committee meets at least once a year. The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report 2003   31
Long Term Incentive Plan Committee The Long Term Incentive Plan Committee comprises the same membership as the Remuneration
Committee. This Committee is responsible for the operation of the long term incentive plan, further details of which are set out on pages
23 and 24. No member of the Committee is participating in this plan. The Committee meets at least once a year.
Share Option Plans Committee The Share Option Plans Committee comprises the same membership as the Remuneration Committee.
This Committee is responsible for the operation of the share option plans, details of which are set out in Note 17 to the accounts. 
No member of the Committee is participating in these plans. The Committee meets at least twice a year.
Directors' remuneration
The principles and details of Directors' remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 29.
Shareholder relations
The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings between institutional
investors and senior management, and ad hoc presentations to institutional investors.
Shareholders are also kept up-to-date with the Company's activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with private investors and their participation is encouraged by holding question and
answer sessions during the meeting.
Accountability and audit
The statement of Directors' responsibilities and the going concern statement are shown on page 32.
The Company has an Audit Committee to which PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , the Company's auditors, report.
Internal control
The Directors are responsible for the Company's system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance against misstatement or loss. The Directors have reviewed the operation and effectiveness of this system of internal control
during the year.
The Group has the following established framework of internal controls:
Clear organisational structure - The Group operates through autonomous divisions and operating companies, each with its own board.
Each of the divisions has a director who is a member of the Group Board. Operating company boards meet formally on a weekly basis
and divisional boards monthly. Information is prepared for such meetings on a standardised basis to cover each aspect of the business.
Formal reporting lines and delegated levels of authority exist within this structure and oversight of risk and performance occurs at multiple
levels through the Group.
Risk assessment - the Group and each operating company within it assesses and manages its risks on an ongoing basis. As part of this
process, each division produces quarterly risk and control reports that identify significant risks, the potential impact and the actions being
taken to mitigate the risks. These risk reports are reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Financial reporting - A comprehensive budgeting and real-time forecasting system, covering both profit and cash, operates within the
Group. This enables executive management to view key financial and operating data on a daily basis. On a weekly and monthly basis
more formal reporting up to the Group Executive and Board is prepared. The results of all operating units are reported monthly and
compared to budget and forecast.
Policies and procedures - Policies and procedures, including operating and financial controls, are detailed in policies and procedures
manuals that are refreshed and improved as appropriate. Training to staff is given where necessary.
Investment controls - The Group has clearly-defined guidelines for capital expenditure. There is a well-established system, supported by
rigorous review and authorisation, for the purchase and sale of land within the Group. Corporate Governance continued
32 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report 2003
Internal audit - Internal auditors are in place in each division and at Group to provide assurance on the operation of the Group's 
control framework.
Compliance
The Company has complied with the principles of the Combined Code throughout the year.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements;
 prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and its subsidiary
undertakings will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at 
any time, the financial position of the Company and Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of The Berkeley Group plc website is the responsibility of the Company; the work carried out by the
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that 
may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.