 18
Corporate Governance
The Company is quoted on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange ( AIM'). The
regulatory requirements of AIM do not require the Company to follow the Combined Code which applies to fully
listed companies. Nevertheless, the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance to the
extent that it is practicable and appropriate for a Group of our size.
The Board
The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, Lynton Barker, one Executive Director, Andrew Darby, and two
independent Non-executive Directors, Alastair Gordon and Iain Johnston. Alastair Gordon is the Senior
Independent Director. The Board collectively has a wide range of relevant business, financial and international
experience which is considered vital to the success of the Group. Each of the Directors has significant knowledge
of the technology business combined with general business skills.
Lynton Barker was appointed Executive Chairman in April 2010. He continues in this role, effectively combining
the strategic role of the Chairman with the operational responsibilities of the Chief Executive. Andrew Darby has
continued in his combined role of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Lynton Barker's combined
roles do not conform with the Combined Code Section A2 but the Board consider it is in the best interests of the
Group to maintain this small core executive team for the immediate future. The continuation of this joint role is
reviewed regularly, as are the mix of executive and non executive board members.
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors are independent in accordance with the Code. In
assessing independence, the Board weighs a number of factors including whether each non-executive director
is objective, provides a challenge to management, is prepared to challenge the views of others, demonstrates a
good understanding of the business, has the best interests of the Group in mind and has no commercial or
employment relationships or circumstances with the Group that are likely to affect his judgement.
The Code calls for the re-election of one third of the directors at each AGM. Accordingly Lynton Barker and
Alastair Gordon are standing for re-election. The Board considers that both Alastair and Lynton provide the
operational knowledge and continuity required to help fulfil our current strategy.
The appointment of Iain Johnston to the Board is also to be ratified at the AGM.
The Non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability by bringing their independent judgement
to bear on issues brought before the Board and Board committees. They bring considerable knowledge and
experience from other areas of business and their views carry significant weight in the Board's decisions. They
also meet as a group from time to time without the Executive Directors being present to consider the performance
of the Executive Directors.
The Board met 11 times throughout the year. All the necessary information is supplied to the directors on a timely
basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively. The Board has a statement of responsibilities and is
presented with an agenda and supporting documentation in sufficient time for review and consideration prior to
each Board meeting. It is responsible for the overall management of the Group and the approval of its long term
objectives and strategy.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring that it exercises
control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. At these meetings the Board
reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, monitors strategy, examines investment and
acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders. The Non-executive Directors can also take
independent advice as appropriate at the Company's expense. Corporate Governance continued
Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which have each been reviewed by the relevant
Committee in the last year. Attendance at Board and Committee meetings was as follows:
Audit Remuneration 
Board Committee Committee
Number of meetings 11 3 3
Lynton Barker 11 2 3
Andrew Darby 10 3 3
Alastair Gordon 11 3 3
Peter Morgan 9 2 2
Iain Johnston 4 1 1
Iain Johnston has attended all of the meetings of the Board and its Committees since his appointment in
December 2011.
Board Evaluation
The performance of the Board and its sub-committees is evaluated annually by the Board as a whole through
completion of a formal questionnaire. The results of the questionnaire are then discussed by the Board and
appropriate actions are taken. The performance of the Executive Chairman is reviewed by the Non-executive
Directors and the results discussed with the Executive Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
Training
The Executive Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new Board member is equipped to fulfil his or her
duties and responsibilities. Directors are kept up to date with any significant changes in corporate law and
governance and financial and accounting matters.
Management Committee
The Board has established a Management Committee which comprises the Executive Directors together with
other senior Executives of the Group. They meet monthly to discuss strategic and operational matters and the
key issues from the meetings are presented to the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two non-executive Directors and is now chaired by Iain Johnston
having taken over the role during the year from Peter Morgan. It met on three occasions in the past year. It reviews
the remuneration of each of the Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and
other benefits. It also reviews and discusses the remuneration of the other senior Executives with the Executive
Chairman. The Remuneration Committee report can be found on pages 22 - 25.
Nomination Committee
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee leads Board discussions relating to Board structure and Board
appointments when necessary. The Nomination Committee met once during the year to discuss the appointment
of Iain Johnston; all the current Directors and non-executive Directors were present.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the two non-executive directors and is chaired by Alastair Gordon, who has
recent relevant CFO financial experience within the public company software sector. Directors and auditor attend
19 20
 Corporate Governance continued
the meetings by invitation to support the Committee in carrying out its responsibilities. The Audit Committee met
three times in the last financial year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and
annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring controls, which are in force to
ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders. The Audit Committee is responsible
for the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration both for audit and, where considered
appropriate, non-audit work and discusses the nature and scope of the audit. In the past year the Audit
Committee has specifically reviewed the revenue recognition policy as applied to all major licence agreements,
the terms of partnership agreements and the establishment and/or release of provisions and estimates.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the Group's auditor is of paramount importance to
shareholders and regularly reviews the level of non-audit work being performed by the auditor to ensure that they
remain independent. The Audit Committee also consults the auditor in the absence of Executive management at
the culmination of each Committee meeting in order to obtain independent advice and discuss the performance
of the Executive management. Audit and non-audit fees paid or payable to the auditor in the year under review
are set out in note 7. The Audit Committee have reviewed the work, performance and independence of the
auditor and consider it appropriate that a resolution be put to the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them.
The Group does not have an internal audit function. In the opinion of the Audit Committee and the Board, the
limited scale and complexity of the business does not warrant the establishment of a separate, internal audit
function at this time. The position is kept under review and the auditors are consulted with regard to the
experience of similar organisations.
Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls. The Board monitors the
effectiveness of the Group's internal controls on an annual basis including operational, financial, compliance and
risk management controls. The key controls are designed to mitigate risk rather than eliminate it and are as
follows:
  Comprehensive financial planning and reporting and a detailed annual budget, which is approved by the
Board, monthly reporting of actual results against budget and reporting against key financial and
performance objectives;
  Monthly performance reviews by the Executive Chairman and the Management Committee;
  Established procedures and controls with the Group IT systems designed to protect the security of the
Group data and provide disaster recovery arrangements (with annual reviews and updates);
  Controls for all acquisitions, investments and capital expenditure with clear authorisation levels;
  Maintenance of the Group's ISO 9001 accreditation driving regular internal reviews, checks and mandatory
annual audits in sales and marketing, project management, health and safety, office management,
environmental and human resources;
  Procedures for the escalation of material risks from the Management Committee to the Board;
  Operation of a structured system of risk management throughout the business.
The internal control systems continue to be reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee and developed
where necessary.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining good communications with its investors. This is
principally effected by the Executive Chairman and CFO through presentation and dialogue with shareholders,
institutions, brokers and media particularly following the interim and preliminary results announcements. Their  Corporate Governance continued
views are communicated to the Board. In addition the Non-executive Directors meet with major shareholders to
ascertain any concerns or questions that they may have with regard to the performance of the Group and the
executive management.
The principal communications with private investors are through the Company's website (www.activerisk.com),
the annual report and financial statements, the interim statement and AGM. All the directors aim to attend the
AGM, which provides shareholders with the opportunity to question the Executive Chairman and the Board as
well as the independent Non-executive Director Chairmen of the Board Committees.
By order of the Board:
Andrew Darby
Chief Financial Officer
21