 PAGE HEADER
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Bioquell PLC
19
Overview Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
INTRODUCTION BY THE CHAIRMAN
The Board is committed to upholding the highest standards on corporate governance, protecting and growing our 
shareholders' assets, and engaging in a fair and transparent manner with all of our stakeholders. We take responsibility 
for approving the Group's long term goals and strategies, and provide overall financial and organisational control. We also 
have put in place appropriate internal control and risk management systems across the Group. The detailed statement 
below sets out how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of good governance set out in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council (the Code ). 
NIGEL KEEN
Chairman
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code. The Board is accountable 
to shareholders for applying these principles. 
The Directors consider that throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company has been in compliance with the 
code provisions set out in the Code, except for code provision A.4.1 as the Board has not nominated a senior independent 
Director other than the Chairman, because the Board is small; and code provision D.2.1 as Nigel Keen is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and also Chairman of the Company. 
THE CHAIRMAN
Nigel Keen is Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees as the Board considers that for a SmallCap company the 
Chairman's prime roles are: to procure an excellent strategy for the business; to recruit and retain the best available management 
team to execute this strategy; to put in place a Board of independent directors whose experience can add value to the work of the 
management; and to ensure that the business maintains the highest standard of corporate governance. Taking into consideration 
the size of the Company, the Board believes that in order to fulfil these obligations it is appropriate and necessary for the Chairman 
of the Board to also be Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
THE BOARD
The Board comprises two executive and five Non-Executive Directors who possess the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. 
The Non-Executive Directors, including Christopher Mills, are considered by the Board to be independent in character and 
judgement. However Christopher Mills is not judged to be independent under the criteria set out in the Code as a result of his 
being Chief Investment Officer of Harwood Capital, the Company's largest shareholder. The Board does not consider the fact 
that the other Non-Executive Directors hold shares in the Company impairs their independence. Mr Mills joined the Board as an 
additional Non-Executive Director and therefore the position was not advertised. In the case of Simon Constantine, who has 
served on the Board for more than nine years, the Board is satisfied that he remains free from any relationship with the executive 
management of the Company which could interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement and that he continues to 
provide a rigorous challenge to management; he is proposed for re-election in accordance with the Code. 
The Non-Executive Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals. Before re-election the 
Chairman will confirm to the shareholders that the individual's performance continues to be effective and the individual 
continues to demonstrate their commitment to the role. This composition satisfies the Code's Principles and Provisions 
that the Board should have a balance of executive and Non-Executive Directors in terms of number and relevant experience 
to enable it to have effective leadership and control of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Directors have access to all 
information and, if required, independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. The Board normally convenes 
monthly with attendance by all Directors. Sir Ian Carruthers and Tony Bourne were each absent from one of the twelve 
meetings held during the year, all other directors were present for all the meetings held during the year. Christopher Mills 
did not join the Board until 18 December 2012 and therefore was not present at any Board meeting during 2012.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision and retains full 
control over key strategic, financial and organisational issues within the Group. The Board has agreed a written statement 
which sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Board has established 
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 the Board has completed its annual effectiveness evaluation exercise. This was an 
internal exercise under the control of the Chairman using a detailed questionnaire completed by all Directors in relation 
to the key areas of Board accountability and the arrangements in place to enable effective focus on these areas. Each 
Director has discussed the results of this review with the Chairman at the individual one-to-one interviews which the Chairman 
holds with the directors. The Chief Executive is also involved in the process by giving his input on the way the Board helps 
him in his role. The output from these evaluations allows the Chairman to review objectively the overall balance of the Board. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PAGE HEADER
Bioquell PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
20
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee consisted of the four independent Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman of the Company 
and met three times during the year with all members present at each meeting. The Chairman of the Committee is Simon 
Constantine. This Committee oversees the proper observation of accounting standards, the application of the Group's 
accounting policies, its systems of internal financial controls and all issues relating to the preparation and approval of the 
Group's annual and half-yearly Reports and Accounts. The Committee also considers the effectiveness of the audit 
process, objectivity and independence of the Group's auditors by a process of assessment and keeps the scope of 
non-audit service provided by the auditors and the level of non-audit fees under review. In addition it is involved in the 
approval of the audit fees and the auditors' terms of engagement. The Audit Committee acknowledges its responsibility 
to investigate any reports of impropriety or potential fraud.
The Board has considered the need to introduce an independent Group internal audit function but has decided that the 
current control mechanisms incorporating the Finance and Quality teams are appropriate in the context of the size and 
complexity of the business. The Board reviews this position at least annually.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee consisted of four Non-Executive Directors and was chaired by Nigel Keen - Christopher 
Mils joined the committee on 18 December and therefore did not attend any of the meetings. The Committee, which met 
once during the year, is responsible for recommending to the Board the terms of service and remuneration of the 
Executive Directors. It also has oversight of the remuneration levels of the senior members of the management teams. 
The Committee is responsible for the allocation of share options throughout the Group. The Report of the Remuneration 
Committee is included on pages 21 to 24. 
The Board as a whole, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment and the 
remuneration of the other Non-Executive Directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations Committee consisted of the four independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Nigel Keen 
and met once during 2012. This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board having 
regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board. It also recommends to the Board the composition of the 
Board committees.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
A risk management policy is in place which sets out the Board's overall approach to management and acceptance of risk. 
The Directors and senior managers of each Group business are required to undertake their own risk identification and 
assessment according to the individual circumstances of the business which they manage, and this risk assessment is then 
reviewed and evaluated by the Group Finance Director and submitted to the Board for consideration. This system has 
been in place since 1 January 2012 and up to the date of approval of the Report and Accounts. This risk management 
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined 
Code  produced by the Turnbull working party.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the system of internal control throughout the Group and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
as it can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board has conducted 
a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the period up to 
19 March 2013. In carrying out this review the Board takes account of material developments through reports by the Chief 
Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee. No significant issues were found during this review.
The Board has established an organisation structure with clear lines of accountability. Formalised processes are in place 
for the preparation, review and approval of business plans, budgets and investment proposals for the Group as a whole 
and for the individual divisions. Financial results and other key business monitors are reported to the Board regularly and 
variances from approved budgets identified and used to initiate action. The Board has published, internally, management 
rules which include financial and operating control procedures with which the management of each subsidiary or division 
is required to comply.
DIRECTORS' CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
All directors have a duty, under the Companies Act 2006 (the Act ) to avoid a situation in which a direct or indirect 
interest conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. The Company's Articles of Association include 
provisions for dealing with Directors' conflicts of interest in accordance with the Act.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board attaches a high priority to communications with shareholders. The Group's annual and half-yearly Reports and 
Accounts are sent to all shareholders. The Group meets regularly with its shareholders and there is an opportunity for 
shareholders to question the Chairman and the Directors at the Annual General Meeting. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued