 17 BIOQUELL PLC      ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE
During the year the audit committee comprised four independent non-executive Directors: 
Simon Constantine (Chairman), Tony Bourne, Sir Ian Carruthers and Nigel Keen (Chairman of the Company). 
The Audit Committee's terms of reference include the following roles and responsibilities: 
h h monitoring and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Company's published financial statements and other formal announcements 
relating to the Company's financial performance; 
h h advising the Board on whether the committee believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, business model and strategy;
h h monitoring and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Company's internal financial controls and financial risk management systems; 
h h periodically considering the need for an internal audit function; 
h h making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor; 
h h reviewing and monitoring the external auditor's independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements; 
h h monitoring the extent to which the external auditor is engaged to supply non-audit services; and 
h h ensuring that the Company has arrangements in place for the investigation and follow-up of any concerns raised confidentially by staff in relation 
to the propriety of financial reporting or other matters. 
The committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of the 
review. The terms of reference are available on request from the Company Secretary and on the Company website, www.bioquellplc.com. The audit 
committee meets at least three times a year and has direct access to Deloitte LLP (Deloitte ), the Company's external auditor. The Board considers that 
the members of the committee are independent and have collectively the skills and experience required to discharge their duties effectively, and that the 
chairman of the committee meets the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code as to recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Board has considered the need to introduce an independent Group internal audit function but has decided that the current control mechanisms 
incorporating the Finance and Quality teams are appropriate in the context of the size and complexity of the business. The Board reviews this position 
at least annually.
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the audit committee met three times and discharged its responsibilities by: 
h h reviewing and approving the external auditor's terms of engagement, remuneration and independence; 
h h reviewing the external auditor's plan for the audit of the Company's financial statements, including identification of key risks; 
h h reviewing the Company's internal financial controls operated in relation to the business and assessing the effectiveness of those controls 
in minimising the impact of key risks; 
h h reviewing the appropriateness of the Company's accounting policies; 
h h reviewing the Company's draft annual report and accounts, interim report and interim management statements prior to Board approval; 
h h in particular reviewing the annual report and accounts with reference to its knowledge of the activities of the Group during the year, concluding that 
they are fair, balanced and understandable; and
h h reviewing the external auditor's detailed report to the committee on the annual financial statements.  18 BIOQUELL PLC      ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
AUDIT COMMITTEE continued
The following key areas of risk and judgement have been identified and considered by the audit committee in relation to the business activities and 
financial statements of the Company.
h h The carrying value of intangible assets and in particular the value held in respect of the development of the Company's BioxyQuell technology, which 
has yet to generate any revenues.
h h Revenue recognition and in particular the timing of recording of revenue in respect of products dispatched around the year end, given the significant 
volume of trade in December.
These issues were discussed with management and the auditor, in particular at the pre-year end audit planning meeting and at the conclusion of the 
audit of the financial statements. 
Carrying value of internally generated intangible assets for capitalised development costs: the committee received and reviewed reports from 
management outlining the basis for the assumptions used. The Company's management and the auditor confirmed to the audit committee that the basis 
of capitalising costs and their amortisation had been carried out consistently with prior periods and in accordance with IAS 38. The committee reviewed 
the costs capitalised during the year, the amounts charged to the income statement by way of amortisation and the resulting net carrying values and 
compared these to sales and gross margins generated and forecast to be generated from the respective assets. In addition, this area is an area of higher 
audit risk and accordingly Deloitte provided detailed reporting to the committee on this matter. The committee was satisfied that the carrying values 
are appropriate.
Carrying value of BioxyQuell technology: costs continue to be capitalised and held as fixed assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
useful lives which is deemed to be 15 years in respect of the development of BioxyQuell. Since this is the only intangible asset that has not generated 
any revenue to date, additional work was carried out by the audit committee to confirm the appropriateness of its carrying value. A detailed paper 
identifying a number of strategic opportunities for the commercialisation of BioxyQuell and including financial projections was prepared by management 
and examined by the audit committee. The committee challenged management on the assumptions supporting the financial projections and was 
satisfied that they are reasonable. Management confirmed that the assumptions had been applied consistently and accurately within the financial 
projections, which showed a net present value in excess of the carrying value in fixed assets. This area was a prime source of audit focus and accordingly 
the committee received detailed verbal and written reports from Deloitte on this matter. The committee was satisfied that the carrying value of the 
BioxyQuell asset is appropriate.
Revenue recognition and in particular the timing of recording of revenue in respect of products dispatched around the year end, given the 
significant volume of trade in December: the Company's management confirmed to the audit committee that the controls around year end shipping 
and invoicing of products and services remained in place and that shipments around the year end had been included in the correct accounting period. 
Deloitte also reported on their work on cut-off and noted no errors. The audit committee therefore was satisfied that the sales figure for the year 
included in the annual report and accounts fairly reflected the year's business.
The Company's management and auditor confirmed to the audit committee that they were not aware of any material misstatements. Having reviewed 
the reports received from management and the auditor, the committee is satisfied that the key areas of risk and judgement have been appropriately 
addressed in the financial statements and that the significant assumptions used in determining the value of assets and liabilities have been properly 
appraised and are sufficiently robust. 
As part of the review of auditor independence, Deloitte has confirmed that it is independent of the Company and has complied with applicable auditing 
standards. Deloitte has held office as auditor for 12 years; in accordance with professional guidelines the engagement partner is rotated after at most 
five years and the current partner has served for three years. 
In assessing the auditor's effectiveness, the committee:
h h challenged the work done by the auditor to test management's assumptions and estimates in the key risk areas;
h h reviewed reports received from the auditor on these and other matters;
h h received and considered feedback from management; and
h h held private meetings with the auditor that provide the opportunity for open dialogue and feedback between the Committee and the auditor without 
management being present.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has discussions by telephone and in person with the audit lead partner outside the formal committee process 
throughout the year.
Having completed its review, the audit committee is satisfied that Deloitte remained effective and independent in carrying out its responsibilities up to 
the date of signing this report and believes that it would not be appropriate to put the audit appointment out to tender at the present time although this 
is kept under review. Accordingly, Deloitte LLP will be proposed for re-appointment as auditor at the annual general meeting.