 14 BIOQUELL PLC      ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
INTRODUCTION BY THE CHAIRMAN
The Board is committed to upholding the highest standards on corporate governance, protecting and growing our shareholders' assets, and engaging 
in a fair and transparent manner with all of our stakeholders. We take responsibility for approving the Group's long-term goals and strategies, and provide 
overall financial and organisational control. We also have put in place appropriate internal control and risk management systems across the Group. The 
detailed statement below sets out how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council (the Code ). 
NIGEL KEEN
Chairman
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code. The Board is accountable to shareholders for applying 
these principles. 
The Directors consider that throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company has been in compliance with the code provisions set out in 
the Code, except for code provision A.4.1 as the Board has not nominated a senior independent Director other than the Chairman, because the Board 
is small; and code provision D.2.1 as Nigel Keen is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and also Chairman of the Company. 
THE CHAIRMAN
Nigel Keen is Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees as the Board considers that for a SmallCap company the Chairman's prime 
roles are: to procure an excellent strategy for the business; to recruit and retain the best available management team to execute this strategy; to put in 
place a Board of independent directors whose experience can add value to the work of the management; and to ensure that the business maintains the 
highest standard of corporate governance. Taking into consideration the size of the Company, the Board believes that in order to fulfil these obligations 
it is appropriate and necessary for the Chairman of the Board to also be Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
THE BOARD
The Board comprises two executive and five non-executive Directors who possess the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. The non-executive Directors are 
considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement other than Christopher Mills who is not judged to be independent under the 
criteria set out in the Code as he represents shareholders controlling 27.1% of the Company's ordinary shares; the Board does not consider the fact that 
the other non-executive Directors hold shares in the Company impairs their independence. In the case of Simon Constantine, who has served on the 
Board for more than nine years, the Board is satisfied that he remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which 
could interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement and that he continues to provide a rigorous challenge to management; he is proposed for 
re-election in accordance with the Code. 
The non-executive Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals. Before re-election the Chairman will confirm to the 
shareholders that the individual's performance continues to be effective and the individual continues to demonstrate their commitment to the role. This 
composition satisfies the Code's Principles and Provisions that the Board should have a balance of executive and non-executive Directors in terms of 
number and relevant experience to enable it to have effective leadership and control of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Directors have access 
to all information and, if required, independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. The Board met eleven times during the year, 
Christopher Mills was absent from three meetings and Simon Constantine and Sir Ian Carruthers were each absent from one meeting.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision and retains full control over key strategic, financial 
and organisational issues within the Group. The Board has agreed a written statement which sets out the division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 the Board has completed its annual effectiveness evaluation exercise. This was an internal exercise under 
the control of the Chairman using a detailed questionnaire completed by all Directors in relation to the key areas of Board accountability and the 
arrangements in place to enable effective focus on these areas. Each Director has discussed the results of this review with the Chairman at the 
individual one-to-one interviews which the Chairman holds with the directors. The Chief Executive is also involved in the process by giving his input on 
the way the Board helps him in his role. The output from these evaluations allows the Chairman to review objectively the overall balance of the Board. 
DIRECTORS' CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
All directors have a duty, under the Companies Act 2006 (the Act ) to avoid a situation in which a direct or indirect interest conflicts or possibly may 
conflict with the interests of the Company. The Company's Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with directors' conflicts of interest 
in accordance with the Act.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board attaches a high priority to communications with shareholders. The Group's annual and half-yearly Reports and Accounts are sent to all 
shareholders. The Group meets regularly with its shareholders and there is an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and the 
Directors at the Annual General Meeting.  15 BIOQUELL PLC      ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is chaired by Simon Constantine and oversees the proper observation of accounting standards, the application of the Group's 
accounting policies, its systems of internal financial controls and all issues relating to the preparation and approval of the Group's annual and half-yearly 
Reports and Accounts. The Committee also considers the effectiveness of the audit process, objectivity and independence of the Group's auditors by a 
process of assessment and keeps the scope of non-audit service provided by the auditors and the level of non-audit fees under review. In addition it is 
involved in the approval of the audit fees and the auditors' terms of engagement. The Audit Committee acknowledges its responsibility to investigate any 
reports of impropriety or potential fraud. The report of the Audit Committee is included on pages 17 to 18.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee consisted of five non-executive Directors and was chaired by Nigel Keen. The Committee, which met once during the 
year, is responsible for recommending to the Board the terms of service and remuneration of the Executive Directors. It also has oversight of the 
remuneration levels of the senior members of the management teams. The Committee is responsible for the allocation of share options throughout the 
Group. The Report of the Remuneration Committee is included on pages 19 to 26. The Board as a whole, determines the remuneration of the Chairman 
and the terms of his appointment and the remuneration of the other non-executive Directors. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
The Nominations Committee consisted of four non-executive Directors and is chaired by Nigel Keen. The Committee met twice during 2013. This 
Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the 
Board. It also recommends to the Board the composition of the Board committees.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
A risk management policy is in place which sets out the Board's overall approach to management and acceptance of risk. The Directors and senior 
managers of each Group business are required to undertake their own risk identification and assessment according to the individual circumstances of 
the business which they manage, and this risk assessment is then reviewed and evaluated by the Group Finance Director and submitted to the Board for 
consideration. This system has been in place since 1 January 2013 and up to the date of approval of the Report and Accounts. This risk management 
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  produced by the Turnbull 
working party.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the system of internal control throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as it can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 
31 December 2013 and the period up to 18 March 2014. In carrying out this review the Board takes account of material developments through reports 
by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee. No significant issues were found during this review.
The Board has established an organisation structure with clear lines of accountability. Formalised processes are in place for the preparation, review and 
approval of business plans, budgets and investment proposals for the Group as a whole and for the individual divisions. Financial results and other key 
business monitors are reported to the Board regularly and variances from approved budgets identified and used to initiate action. The Board has 
published, internally, management rules which include financial and operating control procedures with which the management of each subsidiary 
or division is required to comply.