 16 BIZSPACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Introduction
The group is committed to the principles of corporate
governance contained in the combined code on
corporate governance which incorporates the proposals
in the Higgs report published in January 2003. This
came into force on 1 November 2003. The Combined
Code is intended to promote the principles of openness,
integrity and accountability. Whilst the shares in
Bizspace plc are traded on the Alternative Investment
Market and hence compliance with the combined Code
is not mandatory, the Company fully supports these
principles and the directors have decided to provide
Corporate Governance disclosures.
The board formally adopted the principles of good
governance set out in the original combined code on 
8 May 2000. They have since adopted the revised code
on the 1 November 2003. The Company's governance
policies already in place matched closely the position
set out in the Combined Code.
Narrative statement
Directors
There is a Board of directors which is set up to control
the Company and group and consists of three executive
and two non-executive directors. Both of the non-
executive directors are independent of the group.
LG Lipman is Chairman of the Board and NS Corderey 
is the Managing Director. The full Board meets every six
weeks to discuss a whole range of significant matters
including strategic decisions, major acquisitions and
group performance. A procedure to enable directors 
to take independent professional advice if required 
has been agreed by the Board and formally confirmed
by all directors.
SS Landy has been nominated as the senior
independent director as required by the Code.
Each Board meeting receives the latest financial
information available which consists of detailed
management accounts with the relevant comparisons
to budget. A current trading appraisal is given by the
executive directors.
Each member of the Board is subject to the re-election
provisions of the Articles of Association, which require
them to offer themselves for re-election at least once
every three years. In the event of a proposal to appoint
a new director, this would be discussed at a full 
Board meeting, with each member being given the
opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior 
to any formal decision being taken.
The directors have delegated certain of their
responsibilities to various committees, which operate
within specific terms of reference and authority limits.
The executive directors meet on a regular basis every
four weeks and deal with decisions that do not require
full Board approval. The directors believe that this
process for making business decisions provides
sufficient division of responsibility to meet the
requirements of the Combined Code.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees, which
consist solely of non-executive directors, meet at
least twice a year.
Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee meets and considers,
within existing terms of reference, the remuneration
policy and makes recommendations to the Board 
for each executive director. The executive directors'
remuneration consists of a package of basic salary,
bonuses, and share options, which are linked to
corporate and individual performance achievements
and the levels of each, are determined by the
Remuneration Committee. The statement of
remuneration policy and details of each director's
remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is determined
by the board as a whole.
Relations with shareholders
The directors meet and discuss the performance of 
the group with shareholders during the year. Queries
raised by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are
promptly answered by whoever is best placed on the
Board to so do. All directors are individually introduced
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Accountability and Audit
The Board believes that the Annual Report and
Accounts play an important part in presenting all
shareholders with an assessment of the group's
position and prospects. This is achieved by the
Chairman's Statement which contains a detailed
consideration of the group's position and prospects.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the group
has in place a system of internal control. In this context,
control is defined as those policies and processes
established to ensure that business objectives are
achieved cost effectively, assets and shareholder value
are safeguarded, and laws, regulations and policies are
complied with. Controls can provide reasonable but
not absolute assurance that risks are identified and
adequately managed to achieve business objectives
and to minimise material errors, losses and fraud or
breaches of laws and regulations.
The group operates a strict system of internal financial
control, which is designed to ensure that the possibility
of misstatement or loss is kept to a minimum. There is
a comprehensive system in place for financial reporting
and the Board receives a number of reports to enable 
it to carry out these functions in the most efficient
manner. These procedures include the preparation 
of management accounts, forecast variance analysis
and other ad hoc reports. There are clearly defined
authority limits throughout the group, including those
matters which are reserved specifically for the Board.
The Board has responsibility for the system of internal
financial control and an annual review of the same
is undertaken.
The Combined Code extended the internal financial
control provisions to require the directors to review the
effectiveness of the group's entire system of internal
control, including financial, operational, compliance 
and risk management. The ICAEW published Internal
Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code , known as The Turnbull Guidance , in September
1999, on how to apply the relevant Code principles.
The Company as required by the UK Listing Authority
has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code
on internal control having established the procedures
necessary to implement the guidance issued in
September 1999 (the Turnbull Committee Report) 
and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company's
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness whilst the role of management is to
implement Board policies on risk and control. The
system of internal control is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives.
The Board reviews the group risk management register
and receives regular reports on any material issues 
that have occurred during the year and how the risks
have changed over the period under review. Steps are 
being taken to further embed internal control and risk
management into the operations of the business and 
to address areas of improvement where required which
come to management's and the Board's attention.
The group does not currently have, nor considers there
is a need for, an internal audit function. This is kept
under periodic review.
Going Concern
In compliance with the Combined Code, the directors
can report that based on the group's budgets and
financial projections, they have satisfied themselves
that the business is a going concern. The Board has a
reasonable expectation that the Company and group
have adequate resources and facilities to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future and
therefore the accounts are prepared on the going
concern basis.
17 BIZSPACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 18 BIZSPACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which consists of SS Landy
(chairman of the Committee) and JP Radgick,
is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the
financial statements of the group and any formal
announcements relating to the company's financial
performance and reviewing significant financial
reporting judgements contained in them and for
reviewing the group's internal financial controls.
The committee is also responsible for making
recommendations to the board, for it to put forward 
to the shareholders for their approval in the general
meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment
and removal of the external auditor and to approve 
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
external auditor. They are also responsible to review 
and monitor the external auditor's independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process,
taking into consideration the relevant UK professional
and regulatory requirements. In addition they are
have developed and implemented a policy on the
engagement of the external auditor to supply non 
audit services, taking into account relevant ethical
guidance regarding the provision of non audit services
by the external audit firm.
The audit committee should review arrangements 
by which staff of the group may, in confidence raise
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of
financial reporting or other matters. This has not been
in place in the current year and has been reported 
as an exception below.
The responsibilities of the audit committee include
the requirement to consider annually whether a need
for an internal audit function is.
The Committee meets a minimum of twice a year, prior
to the announcement of interim and annual results
and, should it be necessary, would convene at other
times. In the period up to the date of signature of the
financial statements, the Committee met three times.
Compliance Statement
Whilst not specifically required for a Company whose
shares are traded on the Alternative Investment Market
throughout the year to 28 February 2005, the group
has been in compliance with the Code Provisions set
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority, save 
for the limited exceptions outlined below:
A.4.1
A Nomination Committee has not been established.
The Board, however, is small and it feels that decisions
can be made effectively without this committee 
in place.
B.1.6
NS Corderey has signed a three year service contract
with Bizspace plc dated 30 April 2004 with a current
remuneration of  130,000. The agreements with the
non-executive directors provide for three month notice
periods. Whilst notice periods remain under review the
Remuneration Committee considers that current notice
periods are appropriate for the stage of development
of the business.
C.3.4
The audit committee has not reviewed arrangements
by which the staff of the company may, in confidence,
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters
of financial reporting or other matters.
C.3.5
There is no internal audit function in the company.
The audit committee has not considered at least
annually whether there exists a need for an internal
audit function and has not made a recommendation 
to the board.
By order of the Board
20 May 2005