 44 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009    BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board whose main role
is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, financial
reporting, risk management and internal controls. The Committee's
responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which include
all matters indicated by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the
Code, which are available for inspection on the Company's website
and include:
reviewing the form and content of interim and full year accounts
and results announcements of the Company, interim management
statements and any other formal announcements relating to the
Company's financial performance, including monitoring their integrity
and reviewing significant reporting issues and judgements contained
therein, and recommending them to the Board for approval;
reviewing the Group's systems of risk management and internal
financial control;
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company's
internal audit function and considering regular reports from
Internal Audit on internal financial controls and risk management;
considering the appointment, re-appointment or changing of external
auditors and overseeing the process for their selection and making
recommendations to the Board on their appointment which will
be put to the shareholders for their approval at a General Meeting
and to approve their remuneration and terms of engagement;
agreeing the nature and scope of the external auditor's work and
considering their reports on the Company's accounts, reports
to shareholders and their evaluation of the systems of internal
financial control and risk management; and
monitoring and reviewing the external auditors' independence,
objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional and
regulatory requirements.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises Messrs J.A. Biles, J. Vogelsang
and Dr K. Rajagopal who are all independent Non-executive Directors.
Their biographical details are set out on page 55 and their remuneration
is shown on page 50. The Chairman of the Audit Committee since
16 August 2007 has been Mr J.A. Biles, who was appointed a Director on
that date, following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman is considered to have recent and
relevant financial experience. Mr Biles is a chartered accountant, who
served as a plc finance director (FKI plc from 1998 to 2004 and Chubb
Security plc from 1991 to 1997) and is currently also the Chairman of
the Audit Committees of Charter International plc (2005) and Hermes
Fund Managers Limited (2005). The Company Secretary is secretary to
the Audit Committee. The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director,
Senior Internal Auditor, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer,
Head of Tax, other senior finance personnel and external auditors
attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate by invitation.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee met four times during 2009, and in February 2010
to consider this financial report and all Committee members attended
the maximum number of meetings they were scheduled to attend.
The Committee also meets separately with the Senior Internal Auditor
and with the external auditors, without management being present,
after the end of most formal meetings.
In addition, the Committee Chairman has preparatory meetings
with the external auditors and, where necessary, with Group senior
management, prior to committee meetings.
At their meetings, the Audit Committee considers an agenda of
items including the minutes of the last meeting and a list of action
points from previous meetings, to ensure that these are progressed.
In addition, a number of specific items were reviewed:
At their February and July meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed
respectively the preliminary and interim announcements of results
and the draft reports and accounts for the financial year and the
half year. On these occasions the Committee reviewed reports from
the external auditors, identifying any accounting or judgemental
items requiring its attention (including approval of the processes,
assumptions and outcomes to assess fair values and impairments)
and commenting on risk management and control matters.
A quarterly report from the Senior Internal Auditor was presented
at each meeting and the findings discussed. During the year the
plan for the ensuing year's work was considered.
The external auditors also presented their audit plan at the
December and April meetings covering scope of work to be done
and during the year there was a detailed review of their management
letter covering the auditors' findings in respect of 2008.
The Audit Committee has also been presented with an update
on material litigation in which the Group is involved.
At each meeting an update is presented of any new accounting
developments and requirements and any changes in corporate
governance arrangements that may affect the Group.
On a regular basis, the Committee reviewed papers on liquidity,
banking arrangements and the going concern assumptions for
preparation of the financial statements. This response to the
current global financial and economic circumstances, which affects
all businesses, took account of the impact on the Bodycote
business of the current financial and economic environment.
The Committee's activities supported the Directors in their
assessment of the going concern position of the Group,
which is set out on page 30.
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:09  Page 44 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 45
During 2009 the Audit Committee also:
assessed the independence of the external auditors;
having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, the performance
and capabilities of the External Auditors and having taken into
account their tenure of office from 2002 and when the position
was last open for tender, recommended to the Board to reappoint
the Auditors and agreed their fees;
approved the Group's accounting policies;
approved the management representations to the Auditors;
reviewed arrangements for reporting and investigating fraud
and employee concerns;
reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk
management process;
reviewed the terms of reference for the Audit Committee; and
assessed the Committee's own effectiveness.
INDEPENDENCE OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the
independence of the audit is not compromised. In this respect, the
Audit Committee reviewed:
the external auditors' plan for the current year, noting the role of
the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and
who, in accordance with the professional rules, has not held office
for more than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff;
the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit
relationship; and
the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external
auditors as referred to below.
The policy in respect of services provided by the external auditors
is as follows:
Audit related services. The external auditors are invited to
provide services where their position as auditors renders them
best placed to undertake the work. This includes reporting and
certification connected with borrowings, shareholders and other
circulars, regulatory requirements and work in respect of
acquisitions and disposals.
Tax consulting. Where the external auditors are best suited
to carry out the work they are asked to do so. This particularly
applies to work relating to tax compliance. Major exercises and
any work where conflicts would arise are put out to tender.
General consulting work. In general and where conflicts arise, the
work is not awarded to the external auditors and is put out to tender.
There are no contractual restrictions on who the Audit Committee
can choose as external auditors.
INTERNAL AUDIT
Internal Audit independently reviews the risk and control processes
operated by management. It carries out independent audits in
accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the
Audit Committee before the start of the financial year. This plan
takes account of the risk management framework surrounding major
business risks in each operation and provides a high degree of
financial and geographical coverage. Internal Audit reports include
recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed
managerial action plans to resolve issues raised. Internal audit follows
up the implementation of recommendations and reports progress to
senior management and the Audit Committee. The effectiveness of
the Internal Audit function is reviewed and discussed on an annual
basis with the Group Financial Controller and Senior Internal Auditor.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has
concluded that it has acted in accordance with its items of reference
and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
On behalf of the Audit Committee:
J. A. Biles
Audit Committee Chairman
25 February 2010
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:09  Page 45