 38 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009    BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Chairman's Statement, the Chief Executive's Review, the
Finance Director's Report, and all the information contained on
pages 8 to 55 together comprise the Directors' Report for
the year ended 31 December 2009.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying
on business in the provision of thermal processing services.
The activities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings
are set out on pages 109 and 110.
GROUP REVIEW
The Group Review, which encompasses: 
the Chairman's Statement, 
the Chief Executive's Review, 
Strategy and Objectives, 
Business Performance and Key Performance Indicators,
Business Overview,
Business Review,
the Finance Director's Report; and
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
is provided on pages 8 to 37 of this annual report.
This is a review of the development of the businesses of the Group,
the financial performance during the year ended 31 December 2009,
key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties facing the Group, and information about the use
of financial instruments. The Group review has been prepared solely
to assist the shareholders in assessing the Group's strategies and
the potential of those strategies. It should not be relied on by any
other party for any other purpose. Forward-looking statements have
been made by the Directors in good faith using information available
up to the date of this report and such statements should be regarded
with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic
trends and business risks. Since the end of the financial year,
with the exception of the re-financing as detailed on page 32,
no important events affecting the business of the Group have occurred.
DIVIDENDS
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.35p per ordinary
share making a total for the year of 8.30p per share (2008: 8.30p).
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 7 May 2010 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 April 2010.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company's issued ordinary share capital as at 31 December
2009 was  32.5m and during the year was increased by the issue
of 636,588 ordinary shares between 30 April and 9 December 2009
for a total consideration of  383,297 in connection with the Company's
executive share incentive schemes. At the Annual General Meeting
on 27 April 2009 the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase
up to 18,753,112 of its own shares. This authority expires at the
conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held
on 28 April 2010, at which time a further authority will be sought
from shareholders. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Details of the authorised and issued share capital are shown
in note 25. The Company has one class of ordinary shares which
carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one
vote at general meetings of the Company. There are no specific
restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares,
both of which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles
of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware
of any agreements between holders of the Company's shares that
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting
rights. Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28
and shares held by the Bodycote Employee Benefit Trust abstain
from voting and waive dividend. No person has any special rights
of control over the Company's share capital and all issued shares are
fully paid. The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed
by the Company's Articles of Association, the Combined Code,
the Companies Act and related legislation. The Articles of Association
may be amended by a special resolution of shareholders. The powers
of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance statement
on page 40. Under the Articles of Association the Company has
authority to issue ordinary shares with a nominal value of  1,619,586.
There are also a number of other agreements that take effect, alter,
crystallise or terminate upon a change of control of the Company
following a takeover bid such as commercial contracts, bank loan
agreements, property lease agreements, employment contracts
and employee share plans. None of these are considered to be
significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the
Group as a whole, and the Directors are not aware of any agreements
between the Company and themselves or employees that provide
for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs
because of a takeover bid. 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:09  Page 38 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 39
DIRECTORS
The current Directors and their biographical details are listed on
page 55 and all served throughout the year. Messrs J.D. Hubbard
and D.R. Sleight both retired on 27 April 2009 at the Annual General
Meeting. Messrs D.F. Landless and J.A. Biles are retiring by rotation,
and both being eligible, offer themselves for re-election by shareholders
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The service agreement
for Mr Landless is terminable by 12 months' notice. Mr Biles does
not have a service agreement with the Company and his appointment
is terminable by six months' notice. 
PROPOSALS FOR RE-ELECTION
Messrs Landless and Biles were re-elected by shareholders
in 2007 and 2008 respectively and, in accordance with the Articles
of Association, now stand for re-election by the shareholders of the
Company. The Board recommends to shareholders that they re-elect
the two directors offering themselves for re-election. The performance
of Mr Biles as a non-executive director was evaluated in October 2009
by the Chairman, who confirms that his performance continues to
be effective and that he has continued throughout to demonstrate
commitment to the roles of Non-executive Director and Chairman
of the Audit Committee. The performance of Mr Landless as Group
Finance Director was evaluated in January 2010 by the Chief Executive,
who confirms that his performance continues to be effective.
DIRECTORS' INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS & SHARES
Details of the Executive Directors' service contracts and details
of the Directors' interests in the Company's shares, share option
schemes and share incentive plans are shown in the Board Report
on Remuneration on pages 46 to 53. No Director has had any dealings
in any shares or options in the Company since 31 December 2009.
Qualifying third party indemnity provision (as defined by section 234
of the Companies Act 2006) has remained in force for the Directors
for the year ended 31 December 2009 and, as at the date of this
report, remains in force for the benefit of the current Directors in
relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have
incurred) to third parties in the course of their duties. Apart from
these exceptions, none of the Directors had a material interest
in any contract of significance in relation to the Company and its
subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
During 2008 the duties owed by directors to a company were
codified and extended by the Companies Act 2006 so that directors
not only had to declare actual conflicts of interests in transactions
as they arose but also had a duty to avoid such conflicts whether
real or potential. Potential conflicts of interest could arise where a
single director owes a fiduciary duty to more than one organisation
(a  Situational Conflict') which typically will be the case where a
non-executive director holds directorships in more than one company.
In order to ensure that each Director was complying with the new
duties, each Director provided the Company with a formal declaration
to disclose what Situational Conflicts affected him. The Board reviewed
the declarations and approved the existence of each declared
Situational Conflict until October 2010 and permitted each affected
Director to attend and vote at Bodycote Directors' meetings,
on the basis that each such Director continued to keep Bodycote's
information confidential, and provided overall that such authorisation
remained appropriate and in the interests of shareholders. Where such
authorisation becomes inappropriate or not in the interests of Bodycote
shareholders, the Chairman, or the Nomination Committee, can revoke
an authorisation. No such revocations have been made.
EMPLOYMENT
The Group recognises the value that can be added to its
future profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
The commitment of employees to excel is key to the Group's
continued success. Through their attendance at, or participation
in strategy, production, safety and health meetings at site level,
employees are kept up to date with the performance and progress
of the Group, the contribution to the Group made by their site and
are advised of safety and health issues. The Group publishes in
eleven languages, via the Group extranet, an electronic magazine
for all staff detailing the Group's activities, performance and some
of its personalities and has also featured the Group's open door policy
under which employee concerns can be voiced on a confidential
basis. Approximately 1,800 Bodycote employees are connected to
the Bodycote Extranet, which improves knowledge of Group activities,
and assists greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
It is the Group's policy to give full and fair consideration to applications
for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular
aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career
development of all personnel employed by the Group, including
disabled persons. Should an employee become disabled the Group,
where practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange
appropriate training. An equal opportunities policy is in operation
in the Group.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies
is a continuous process. The Group has a policy of deploying the best
technology available and actively seeking improvements. It also conducts
research programmes with its customers.
DONATIONS
Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted
to  2,750 (2008:  11,050). There were no political contributions
in 2008 or 2009.
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:09  Page 39