 Bodycote plc 41
Annual Report 2011
Business review Governance	 Financial statements Additional information
Report of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board whose main role is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, 
financial reporting, risk management and internal controls. 
The Committee's responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which include all matters indicated by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules and the Code, which are available for inspection on the Company's website, and include reviewing the form and 
content of interim and year end accounts and results announcements, risk management and internal financial controls, monitoring 
internal audit, considering the appointment of the external auditor and agreeing the nature and scope of their work and monitoring and 
reviewing their independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Messrs J.A. Biles, J. Vogelsang and Dr K. Rajagopal who are all independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Their biographical details are set out on page 33 and their remuneration is shown on page 47. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
since 16 August 2007 has been Mr J.A. Biles, who was appointed a Director on that date, following a recommendation from the 
Nomination Committee. The Audit Committee Chairman is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience. Mr Biles is a 
chartered accountant, who served as a plc finance director (FKI plc from 1998 to 2004 and Chubb Security plc from 1991 to 1997) and 
until its takeover in January 2012 was also the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Charter International plc (2005). The Company 
Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee. The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Senior Internal Auditor, Group Financial 
Controller, Vice-President (Risk and Business Processes), Group Treasurer, Head of Tax, other senior finance personnel and external 
auditors attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate by invitation.
Main activities of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met four times during 2011, and in February 2012 to consider this financial report and all Committee members 
attended the maximum number of meetings they were scheduled to attend. The Committee also meets separately with the Vice-
President (Risk and Business Processes) and with the external auditor, without management being present, after the end of most formal 
meetings.
In addition, the Committee Chairman has preparatory meetings with the external auditor and, where necessary, with Group senior 
management, prior to committee meetings. At their meetings, the Audit Committee considers an agenda of items including the minutes 
of the last meeting and a list of action points from previous meetings, to ensure that these are progressed. In addition, a number of 
specific items were reviewed:
   At their February and July meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed respectively the preliminary and interim announcements of 
results and the draft reports and accounts for the financial year and the half year. On these occasions the Committee reviewed 
reports from the external auditor, identifying any accounting or judgemental items requiring its attention (including approval of the 
processes, assumptions and outcomes to assess fair values and impairments) and commenting on risk management and control 
matters. Specific areas of judgement discussed and challenged by the committee, included:
   Impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets, including an assessment of the discount rates used, and the 
appropriateness of specific risk factors applied to cash generating units and the adequacy of sensitivities applied
   Environmental costs, including the adequacy of the Group's provisions
   Remaining restructuring actions, and the appropriateness of outstanding provisions
   Claims provisions and litigation, including the adequacy and valuation of provisions
   Accounting for employee share schemes
   Adequacy of revenue recognition policies
   Accounting for taxation
   Validity of the Going Concern assumption used in preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts
   A quarterly report on internal audit from the Vice-President (Risk and Business Processes) was presented at each meeting and the 
findings discussed. During the year the plan for the ensuing year's work was considered.
   The external auditor also presented, for the year end statutory audit and interim review engagements respectively, their audit plans at 
the December and April meetings covering scope of work to be done and during the year there was a detailed review of their 
management letter covering the Auditor's findings in respect of 2010 external auditor also presented, for the year end statutory audit 
and interim review engagements respectively, their audit plans at the December and April meetings covering scope of work to be 
done and during the year there was a detailed review of their management letter covering the Auditor's findings in respect of 2010.
   The Audit Committee is also presented with an update on any material litigation in which the Group may be involved.
   At each meeting an update is presented of any new accounting developments and requirements and any changes in corporate 
governance arrangements that may affect the Group.
   On a regular basis, the Committee reviewed papers on liquidity, banking arrangements and the appropriateness of the going concern 
assumption for preparation of the financial statements. The Committee's activities supported the Directors in their assessment of the 
going concern position of the Group, which is set out on page 25.
The Vice-President (Risk and Business Processes) has responsibility for developing the Group's risk management framework and 
enhancing the Group's risk assessment and mitigation activities. This action demonstrates the Board's continued commitment to 
maintain sound risk management and internal control systems. During 2011 the Audit Committee also:
   Assessed and confirmed the independence of the external auditor;
   Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, the performance and capabilities of the external auditors and having taken into 
account their tenure of office from 2002 and whether the position should be formally tendered, recommended to the Board that the 
auditor be reappointed and agreed their fees;
   Approved the Group's accounting policies; 42 Bodycote plc
Annual Report 2011
   Approved the management representations to the external auditor;
   Reviewed arrangements for reporting and investigating fraud and employee concerns; normal internal audit activity and operation of 
the Group's  Open Door' policy uncovered a small number of potentially fraudulent incidents which were all fully investigated. None 
had any material financial impact on the Group and, where necessary, systems and procedures were amended to minimise the risk 
of recurrence;
   Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management processes and recommended certain changes; 
   Reviewed the terms of reference for the Audit Committee; and
   Assessed the Committee's own effectiveness.
Training
The Committee receives regular technical updates as part of the agenda of each Committee meeting as well as specific or personal 
training as required. A training session was held during October 2011, where Deloitte updated the committee on a number of relevant 
accounting matters and discussed latest developments in Corporate and Social Responsibility reporting and changes to UK corporate 
governance practice.
Independence of external auditor
The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised. In this respect, the 
Audit Committee reviewed:
   the external auditor's plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory auditor, who signs the audit report and who, in 
accordance with the professional rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff;
   the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship; and
   the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor as specified below. Related and non-audit fees paid to the 
auditor are available in note 3 on page 67. There has been no significant non-audit engagement.
The policy in respect of services provided by the external auditor is as follows:
   audit-related services. The external auditor is invited to provide services where their position as auditor renders them best placed to 
undertake the work. This includes reporting and certification connected with borrowings, shareholders and circulars, regulatory 
requirements and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals;
   in the case of other services no contracts in excess of  20,000 in value can be awarded to the external auditor without prior approval 
from the Chairman of the Audit Committee;
   tax and general consulting work. In general and where conflict could arise, the work is not awarded to the external auditor and is put 
out to tender; and
   there are no contractual restrictions on who the Audit Committee can choose as external auditor.
Internal audit
Internal Audit independently reviews the risk and control processes operated by management. It carries out independent audits in 
accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the Audit Committee before the start of the financial year. This plan takes 
account of the risk management framework surrounding major business risks in each operation and provides a high degree of financial 
and geographical coverage. Where appropriate, either because of language, geographical remoteness or where technical expertise is 
required, the Internal Audit Department engages third party specialists to conduct Internal Audits. Internal Audit reports include 
recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed managerial action plans to resolve issues raised. Internal audit 
follows up the implementation of recommendations and reports progress to senior management and the Audit Committee. The 
Committee noted that the 2011 Internal Audit programme was successfully completed with sites representing approximately 70% of 
Group revenue being the subject of internal audit reports. At the same time there was a declining trend in the requirement for corrective 
actions. The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function is reviewed and discussed on an annual basis with the Vice President (Risk and 
Business Processes) and Senior Internal Auditor.
Following a review of the Group's internal audit processes and capabilities a decision was taken by the Committee to outsource internal 
audit. The Group went out to tender to three major accounting firms and after receiving presentations from them, the contract for 
services was awarded to Ernst & Young LLP, who will commence their work in April 2012.
Overview
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference 
and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
On behalf of the Audit Committee:
J.A. Biles
Audit Committee Chairman 
23 February 2012
Report of the Audit Committee continued