 The Company is committed to attaining a high standard of Corporate Governance and compliance with the 1998 Combined Code (the
1998 Code ), so far as is appropriate and practical to a Group of our size. The Board considers that the Company has complied with
the requirements of the 1998 Code. Following the Higgs and Smith reports a New Combined Code was implemented in July 2003. 
The Company is evaluating the requirements of the New Combined Code which will apply for the year commencing 1 March 2004.
The Board
The Board, which meets a minimum of six times a year, is responsible to shareholders for the effective direction and control of the
Company. Key matters including Group strategy, the annual operating budgets, resource provision, choice of key corporate advisors
and acquisitions and disposals are specifically reserved to the Board. All Directors are provided with appropriate and timely information
and are properly briefed on Board issues and each, in the furtherance of his duties, may take independent professional advice if
necessary, at the Company's expense. 
The Board includes three independent non-executive Directors, none of whom has fulfilled an executive role within the Company. 
The non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term serving under letters of engagement, which contain a formal
one-month notice period. Sir Graham Hearne chairs the Board. Richard Agutter is the senior independent non-executive director and
he chairs the Audit Committee and John Denholm chairs the Remuneration Committee. The executive Directors are engaged under
service agreements, each of which can be terminated at 12 months' notice. The non-executive Directors serve as the Nomination
Committee advising the Board on the appointment of new Directors. Non-executive Directors meet without the presence of executive
Directors from time to time. The Board believes that its current composition is appropriate having regard to the Company's size and
activities, and it also evaluates its own performance on a periodic basis. During the year the Board and its sub-committees conducted
a review of the effectiveness of their operations. The process was led by the Chairman who consulted each of the directors seeking
their opinion on any changes or improvements in the Board's process which either could or should be made.
The Board has agreed that all Directors, although not required to do so under the Company's articles of association, should submit
themselves for regular re-election in accordance with the Code. Therefore, one Director will submit himself for re-election at the
Company's Annual General Meeting, details of which are given in the notice for that meeting included in this Annual Report and
Accounts. Biographical information on the Directors can be found on page 10 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Board Committees
Membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee are as follows.
Audit Committee:
Non-executive Directors: Richard Agutter (Chairman) and John Denholm. Sir Graham Hearne resigned on the 20 November 2003 but
he has attended meetings by invitation as appropriate.
Although the Board as a whole has a statutory responsibility for the preparation and publication of the Company's accounts, the Audit
Committee takes the lead in a number of important respects. It reviews the internal control procedures and risk assessment, plans
with the external auditors the half-year review and full-year audit programme, reviews with the external auditors their audit findings
and responses to the matters raised and makes recommendations on the appointment of the external auditors in respect of audit and
non-audit services. As part of the annual audit programme the Committee discusses with the external auditors the nature, scope and
results of the audit, as well as any problems or reservations the auditors may have. In addition, the Committee reviews the half-year
and annual financial statements before they are submitted to the Board. In considering all the above, the Committee has due regard 
to the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the audit function. During the year ended 28 February 2004 the Audit
Committee met twice and the meetings were attended by all of the Committee members.
Remuneration Committee:
Non-executive Directors: John Denholm, Sir Graham Hearne, and Richard Agutter.
A statement of the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each
Director are set out on pages 15-17 of the Remuneration Report and in note 9 to the Accounts.
Nominations Committee:
Non-executive Directors: Sir Graham Hearne, Richard Agutter and John Denholm.
The Nominations Committee keeps the balance of Board Membership under review and makes recommendations to the Board on the
appointment of new Directors. For each new appointment the Nomination Committee considers, amongst other things, the
appropriateness of the qualifications and experience of the candidate for the role to be fulfilled. 
Corporate Governance for the year ended 28 February 2004
Braemar Seascope Group plc Annual Report 2004 13 Corporate Governance for the year ended 28 February 2004 continued
14 Braemar Seascope Group plc Annual Report 2004
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with both institutional and private shareholders. The
communications link includes regular meetings of the Chief Executive and Finance Director with existing and potential institutional
investors following both the interim and final announcements of the results of the Group, press releases on matters of interest to all
investors and the making available of the research documents produced on the Group by analysts and independent research companies.
Feedback on shareholder meetings is provided via the Group's stockbroker or public relations advisor. Most written material, including
a summary of the Annual Report and Accounts, is also made available on the Company's website, which can be accessed at
http://www.braemarseascope.com.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting where each resolution is separately put to the meeting and at
which the Chairman and/or Chief Executive makes a statement on the current year's performance and the near-term financial outlook.
Accountability and audit
A statement of the Directors' responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is included in the Report of the Directors 
on page 12.
Risk management
The Company acknowledges the requirements of the Combined Code and regularly seeks to review all aspects of risk management
as it affects each sector of the business. These risks include, but are not limited to, staff errors and/or omissions, non-compliance
with industry standard procedures, loss of broker teams, effectiveness of internal control systems, industry sector consolidation,
currency exposure and loss of financial control. The trading boards monitor such matters on behalf of the Board through permanent 
or ad hoc working parties and/or committees. Management monitor such risks through internal executive committee meetings,
subsidiary board meetings and regular dialogue with departmental heads. A summary of key risks and controls is prepared for
consideration at the audit committee on an annual basis. The Company also holds professional indemnity insurance to an amount
considered adequate for its size and potential exposure.
Internal control 
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the implementation and effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control.
These are designed to identify and counter the particular risks to which the company is exposed. By their very nature these controls
can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The internal control system, which has been in place for a number of years, is subject to annual review by the Audit Committee. 
A review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls was carried out during the year. Due to the current size and structure
of the Group there is not a dedicated full-time internal audit function, though the need for one is kept under review. The Company
prepares an annual budget, which is approved by the Board. The performance of the Company and the individual operating units is
monitored against budget throughout the year and significant variances are investigated. Regular forecasts for the remainder of the
financial year are prepared during the year. There is also a requirement for capital investment to be approved by the Board. There 
are systems set up internally of checks and authorisations and also independent audits associated with the Group's ISO 9001: 2000
certification. It is recognised that any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against
material accounting errors or losses.
The Company's currency risk exposure arises as a result of the majority of its earnings being denominated in US$ while the majority of
its costs are denominated in  's sterling. The Company manages the currency exposure through a policy of planned forward currency
sales. The Finance Director administers this currency policy which is to limit the Company's exposure to such risks by the forward sale
of currency to cover forward income. From time to time, the Company also undertakes business in other currencies; the conversion of
these currencies into sterling is also supervised by the currency committee. The Board monitors hedging through regular reporting.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue to trade
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. 