 CORP
GOVERNANCE
18
The board supports the principles of good
governance contained in the Combined Code
appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority. It complies where this is
commercially justified, allowing for the practical
limitations relating to the company's size. The
company is aware of the King Code in South Africa
and will have the same approach to the King Code
now it's listed on the JSE.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the
company is headed by an effective board, which is
collectively responsible for promoting the success
of the company. The board sets the company's
strategic aims, its values and standards, and
ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and
others are understood and met.
In terms of 3.84(a) of the JSE's Listings
Requirements, Braemore is in the process of
implementing a policy detailing the procedure for
appointments to the board, which procedure will
be in place before the next AGM. Currently, the
nomination of directors to the board is governed
by the AIM rules and all appointments are vetted
by the nominated adviser, as well as the fact that
the company complies with the Combined Code in
this regard. 
All future appointments will however be subject to
the King Code and the relationship agreement
which is being formalised into a legally binding
agreement whereby Atomaer Holdings (Pty) Ltd
will be able to nominate directors to the board
based on their holding the following percentages
in Braemore's issued market capital:
Holding greater than 30% will entitle Atomaer to
nominate two members to the board;
Holding less than 30% but greater than 20%
will entitle Atomaer to nominate one member
to the board;
Holding less than 20% will not entitle Atomaer
to nominate a member to the board.
In going forward Braemore's policy will be that all
board appointments be conducted in a formal and
transparent manner, and all board members will
vote on all appointments. Appointments will be
subject to the ratification of shareholders in
general meeting.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Braemore Resources is listed on the main board of
the JSE Limited (Code: BRE), and on AIM (Code:
BRR), with the objective to develop into a top 10
international nickel and platinum group metal
(PGM) producer, initially from operations in
Australia and South Africa. While Braemore is not
involved in mining operations directly, Braemore
intends expanding its direct exposure to mining
operations in the future and its distinctive
competitive advantage lies in the unique process
applications to which it has proprietary access.
The JSE has granted approval for an inward listing
by way of introduction on the Main Board of the
JSE of all Braemore Ordinary Shares in the
 Platinum and Precious Metals' sector of the JSE.
Braemore listed on the JSE on 16 July 2008.
Since listing, the board of directors, its committees
and employees have strived to conduct all
operations in such a manner to achieve the highest
standards in corporate governance, corporate
responsibility, risk management and social
responsibility in accordance with the principles of
the King Report on Corporate Governance 2002. 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF
KING 11 REPORT ON CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
The board has taken good care to adhere to the
four pillars of Corporate Governance, which are
transparency, accountability, responsibility and
fairness.
The board of directors confirms that the company
has, during the year under review and since date
of listing on the JSE Limited, complied with the
provisions of the Code to the King Report as
detailed below: 
Strategic decisions
The board of directors of Braemore sets the
group's overall policy and provides guidance and
input in all strategic decisions.
Board of directors
The principle of corporate division of power is fully
supported. 19
All board members will have clearly defined
responsibilities over and above their fiduciary
duties, and no board member may commit the
company to any decision without the appropriate
approval of the necessary quorum of fellow
directors, and no director will have the power to
overrule the decision of any properly constituted
meeting of directors.
The positions of Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman of the board will be distinct and will not
be held by any one person at the same time. All
directors are expected to bring an independent
judgement to bear, and to take decisions
objectively in the interests of the company. If
directors have concerns about the way the
company is being run or about any course of action
that is proposed, they must ensure that such
concerns are recorded in the board minutes if they
cannot be resolved.
Non-executive directors are expected to
constructively challenge and contribute to the
development of strategy, to scrutinise management
performance, to satisfy themselves on the integrity
of financial information and that financial controls and
risk management systems are robust and defensible.
It is expected that the non-executive directors will
hold separate meetings without the executive
directors or chairman present. The scope of their
responsibilities is growing, and non-executive
directors will have to undertake that they have
sufficient time to fulfil the role and must disclose any
other commitments or future new appointments.
New directors to the board receive a detailed
induction pack on appointment, and are advised to
regularly update and refresh their skills and
knowledge. This includes skills and knowledge
that they need to bring to their role, as well as
matters relating to the company itself.
The board meets regularly throughout the year. To
enable the board to perform its duties, each of the
directors has full access to all relevant information
and to the services of the company secretary. If
necessary the non-executive directors may take
independent professional advice at the company's
expense.
The directors are committed to maintaining high
standards of corporate governance. The directors
have established procedures, so far as is
practicable, given the company's size, to comply
with the Combined Code as modified by the
recommendations of the Quoted Companies
Alliance. The company has adopted and operates a
share dealing code for directors and senior
employees on substantially the same terms as the
Model Code appended to the Listing Rules of the
UKLA.
The financial risk management policies and
objectives are set out in detail in note 3 which
accompanies the audited financial statements.
The Board
The board meets regularly throughout the year.
Apart from the required quarterly board meetings,
additional meetings are arranged when necessary
to review strategy, planning, operations, financial
performance, risk and capital expenditure, human
resource and environmental management. When
required, special board meetings are held to
discuss specific strategic issues and/or obtain
specific approvals for material business decisions.
To enable the board to perform its duties, each of
the directors has full access to all relevant
information and to the services of the company
secretary. If necessary the non-executive directors
may take independent professional advice at the
company's expense. The board currently includes
four non-executive directors. The board has
delegated specific responsibilities to the
committees described below.
BOARD MEETINGS ATTENDED
Number of
meetings held 
Director and designation Appointed Attended during the year
Executive
Clayton Dodd 27 July 2005 8 8
Hamish Bohannan 
(1)
10 November 2006 5 5
Leon Coetzer 1 July 2008
Non-executive
David Humann 27 July 2005 6 8
Christopher Lambert 11 February 2005 6 8
Michael Elias 27 July 2005 7 8
Anthony Samaha 11 February 2005 8 8
(1)
Hamish Bohannan resigned 4 April 2008
The principle of corporate division of power is fully supported.  20
30 June 2008. It is responsible for reviewing the
performance of the executive directors and for
setting the scale and structure of their
remuneration, paying due regard to the interests
of shareholders as a whole and the performance of
the company.
Company secretary
All directors have access to the advice and
services of the company secretary. 
Communications with stakeholders
and shareholders
The group is committed to a policy of effective
communication and engagement with its
stakeholders on issues of mutual interest.
Braemore will continue to have an interactive
relationship with shareholders, investors, analysts,
investors and regulators. 
Closed period and price sensitive
information
The group has adopted a closed period policy
during which directors, senior managers,
consultants and agents are prohibited from trading
in securities. 
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Christopher
Lambert (Chairman), David Humann and Anthony
Samaha and met three times during the period
ended 30 June 2008. The committee reviews the
company's annual and interim financial statements
before submission to the board for approval. The
committee also reviews regular reports from
management and the external auditors on
accounting and internal control matters. When
appropriate, the committee monitors the progress
of action taken in relation to such matters. The
committee also recommends the appointment of,
and reviews the fees of, the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is in the process of adopting
a formal charter which will establish principles for
using the group's audit firm for non-audit services.
At present, the internal audit function is in the
process of being established and is not yet fully
operational.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is made up of David
Humann (Chairman), Clayton Dodd, and
Christopher Lambert. The Remuneration
Committee met once during the period ended
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDED
Number of 
meetings held 
Members Appointed Attended during the year
Anthony Samaha 11 February 2005 3 3
Christopher Lambert 11 February 2005 1 3
David Humann 27 July 2005 2 3
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONT.)