 14
BrainJuicer Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
intRoDuCtion
The Board of BrainJuicer Group PLC is committed to high standards of corporate governance, which it considers a prerequisite to support the 
growth and ambitions of the Group. Whilst it is not a requirement for companies listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM ) to comply with 
all the provisions in the Combined Code, the Board takes the Code seriously. The Group also places particular importance on the guidelines issued 
by the Quoted Companies Alliance for AIM Companies. 
There are areas where the Group is not in compliance with the Combined Code but the Directors believe that full compliance is not practicable for 
a company of BrainJuicer's size and at its stage of development. This report sets out the procedures and systems currently in place at BrainJuicer 
and explains why the Board considers them effective. The Board has committed to reviewing compliance with the Code regularly.
the boaRD
The Board comprises two Executive Directors and three Non executive Directors. Their biographical details are presented on page 10.
The Board meets formally on a monthly basis and each of the Directors attended all twelve meetings during the year, apart from Ken Ford who 
attended all meetings subsequent to his appointment as Non executive Chairman on 1 September 2007. The Board discharges its responsibilities 
through both monthly management team meetings which are attended by the Executive Directors and the three country managers and regular 
informal meetings as would be expected in a Group of BrainJuicer's size.
Ken Ford is Chairman of the Group and John Kearon its Chief Executive Officer. John is also the founder of BrainJuicer and a significant 
shareholder. His role centres on formulating the Group's strategy and driving its commercial development. The Board's three Non executive 
Directors act as a sounding Board and challenge the Executive Directors both at monthly Board meetings and on a regular and informal basis. 
Matters referred to the Board are considered by the Board as a whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision. There are 
procedures and controls, including a schedule of matters that require the Board's specific approval. This schedule includes:
I approval of the Group's strategy, long term objectives and business plan;
I approval of the extension of the Group's activities into new territories;
I approval of significant capital expenditure beyond that budgeted;
I changes relating to the Group's capital structure, including debt raising, reduction of capital, share issues and buy backs;
I ensuring that the Group has effective reporting and internal control systems and an adequate risk assessment procedure;
I nominations for Board and Committee appointments; and
I consideration of key senior management appointments.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved in connection with the running of the Group or a proposed action, their concerns would 
be recorded in the Board minutes. This course of action has not been required to date.
The Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company's own expense in performance of their duties as Directors.
The Company indemnifies Directors for claims made against them in relation to their duties, with the exception of any losses incurred as a result 
of their willful negligence.
Each year at the Annual General Meeting, one third of Directors are required to retire by rotation, provided all Directors are subject to re election 
at intervals of no more than three years. This year, John Kearon is scheduled to retire by rotation and has confirmed his willingness to be put 
forward for re election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 May 2008.
non exeCutive DiReCtoRS
The Non executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management. The guidance in the Combined Code indicates that 
the Non executive Directors' independence might be impaired as Mark Muth represents a significant shareholder, Unilever Holdings Limited, and 
Simon Godfrey was formerly a part time employee and participates in the Group's share option scheme. However, the Board consider both Mark 
and Simon to be independently minded. Moreover, neither Mark nor Simon have a material economic interest in BrainJuicer given each of their 
net wealth.
The terms and conditions of the Non executive Directors' appointments are available for inspection at the Company's registered office.
RemuneRation Committee
The membership and a summary of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found on page 16.
Corporate governance Report 15
BrainJuicer Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
auDit Committee
The Audit Committee, comprising Mark Muth (Chairman), Simon Godfrey and Ken Ford, the three Non executive Directors, was established 
on 17 November 2006.
The Board considers that Mark Muth has recent and relevant financial experience. He has built a career in banking and venture capitalism 
and is a member of the Board of several small, entrepreneurial companies. If required, the Committee is entitled to request independent advice 
at the Company's expense in order for it to effectively discharge its responsibilities.
The Committee's main role and responsibilities are to:
I monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group;
I review the Group's internal financial controls and risk management systems;
I  make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in relation to the appointment of the external auditor 
and to approve the remuneration and terms of reference of the external auditor;
I discussion of the nature, extent and timing of the external auditor's procedures and discussion of external auditor's findings;
I review and monitor the external auditor's independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process;
I develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non audit services;
I report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is required; and
I  ensure a formal channel is available for employees and other stakeholders to express any complaints in respect of financial accounting 
and reporting.
The Committee is scheduled to meet twice in each financial year and at other times if necessary.
The Group does not currently have an internal audit function, which the Board considers appropriate for a Group of BrainJuicer's size. The Audit 
Committee will review risk assessments and the need for an internal audit function on a periodic basis.
inteRnal ContRol PRoCeDuReS
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of these systems. 
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, 
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Group's internal controls are described below:
I a clearly defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation of authority;
I  the approval by the Board of a one year budget, including monthly income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements. The budget 
is prepared in conjunction with Country Managers and Client Directors to ensure targets are feasible;
I  the business plan is updated on a periodic basis to take into account the most recent forecasts. On a monthly basis, actual results 
are compared to the budget and to the latest forecast and presented to the Board on a timely basis;
I regular reviews by the Board and by the Senior Management team of key performance indicators;
I  a limited number of Directors and Senior Executives are able to sign cheques and authorise payments. Payments are not permitted without 
an approved invoice;
I reconciliations of key balance sheet accounts are performed and independently reviewed by the finance team; and
I a disaster recovery plan and back up system is documented and in place.
The Board in conjunction with the Audit Committee keeps under review the Group's internal control system on a periodic basis. The Board acknowledges 
that there is room to improve procedures and intends to ensure risk assessment procedures and responses are continuously improved.
CommuniCationS with ShaReholDeRS
The Board recognises the importance of regular and effective communication with shareholders. The primary forms of communication are:
I the annual and interim statutory financial reports and associated investor and analyst presentations and reports;
I announcements relating to trading or business updates released to the London Stock Exchange; and
I  the Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to meet the Board of Directors and to ask questions relating 
to the business.
going ConCeRn
After making enquiries, at the time of approving the financial statements the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.