 Car
The value and type of vehicle, which may,
from time to time, be provided to executive
directors is kept in line with market
practice and forms part of the overall
review of benefits.
Non-executive directors
The fees of the of non-executive directors
are determined by the executive directors.
Non-executive directors receive travel
expenses but do not participate in any
incentive arrangements. The non-executive
directors have entered into terms of
appointment. Geoffrey Vernon's
appointment is terminable by either party
upon six months' notice in writing. Steve
Harris's appointment is terminable by either
party upon three months' notice in writing.
Directors' detailed emoluments
Total Total
Paid to year year
Salary & Annual Compensation Third ending ending
fees bonus Benefits Pension for loss Parties 2003 2002
 '000  '000  '000  '000 of office  '000  '000  '000
Executive
Don Evans 148   25 15     188 200
Graeme Brookes 3   5 4 49   61 114
Mary Tavener 102   8 10     120 131
Non-Executive
Geoffrey Vernon       47 47 42
Steve Harris       24 24 22
253  38294971 440 509
Interests in share options
Details of Grant Option Price* D W Evans M G Tavener
Unapproved Executive Share 
Option Scheme 
26 October 1998 41.35p 781,122  
1 December 1998 36.56p 195,280  
15 July 1999 26.99p   574,354
19 July 1999 38.30p 290,730  
26 May 2000 13.50p 582,868 325,646
21 May 2002 8.75p 750,000 375,000
At 31 December 2003 2,600,000 1,275,000
* Restated to take account of the 16 for 31 rights issue on 6 January 2000 except for those options issued after the announcement of
the rights issue on 17 November 1999. Inland Revenue approval has been obtained. 
The opening share price for the year was 9p and the closing price on the last trading day of 2003 (31 December) was 10.75p.
The range during the year was 12.5p (high) and 7.12p (low). (Source: daily official list of the London Stock Exchange.)
Share Performance
Since Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc announced the acquisition of MedLogic Global Holdings Ltd and associated Intellectual
Property Rights on 28 March 2002, its share price has outperformed the FTSE Small Cap Index by 13%, FTSE All Share by 36%,
FTSE Techmark by 32%, FTSE Health by 36% and AIM by 7% and underperformed the Fledging Index by 16%.
By order of the Board
Mary Tavener
Company Secretary
6 April 2004 18 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
The Board is committed to the principles
of corporate governance and has
continued to apply the Combined Code in
a manner which it considers appropriate
for the size of the Group. In compliance
with the Code, the narrative below
describes how the Group applied the
principles. The second part of the
statement details where the Group has not
complied with the provisions of the
Combined Code and the reasons for this.
The Board of directors
The Board retains full and effective control of
the Group and has a schedule of matters
specifically reserved for its decision. The
Board meets on a formal basis regularly, at
least six times a year. In 2003, the Board met
8 times. Prior to each Board Meeting,
directors are sent an agenda including
monthly management accounts and
accompanying reports from the executive
directors. The Board is responsible for
formulating the Group's corporate strategy,
approval of budgets, monitoring financial
performance, approval and review of major
capital expenditure and corporate
governance matters. Operational control is
delegated to the executive directors. All
directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary and can
take independent professional advice, if
necessary, at the Group's expense. The non-
executive directors are able to contact the
executive directors at any time for further
information.
The Board comprises two executive
directors and two non-executive directors.
The Board considers this adequate to deal
with the management of a Group of this
size but this matter continues to be
reviewed. The Chairman is one of the non-
executive directors and there is a clear
division of responsibility between the
Chairman and Chief Executive. The non-
executive directors are independent of the
executive management. All directors are
required to stand for re-election at the first
annual general meeting following their
appointment and, as a minimum, every
three years, thereafter. 
Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific authority
to the Remuneration Committee,
Nominations Committee and the Audit
Committee. The non-executives are the
only members of the Remuneration and
Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee is chaired by
Geoffrey Vernon and meets at least twice a
year. The Committee considers the
appointment and fees of the auditors and
discusses the scope of the audit and its
findings. It is also responsible for
monitoring the Group's accounting
policies, assessing the Group's internal
controls and reviewing the annual and
interim statements prior to their
submission for approval by the Board. The
Committee has the right of access to the
external auditors without the attendance of
the executive directors. The size of the
Audit Committee is not in strict
compliance of the Combined Code but is
consistent with a Group of this size.
The Audit Committee also undertakes a
formal assessment of the auditor's
independence which includes:
  A review of non-audit services
provided to the Group and related
fees.
Corporate Governance   Discussion with the auditors of a
written report detailing all
relationships with the Company and
any other parties that could affect
independence or the perception of
independence.
  A review of the auditor's own
procedures for ensuring the
independence of the audit firm and
partners and staff involved in the
audit, including the regular rotation of
the audit partner.
  Obtaining written confirmation from
the auditors that, in their professional
judgement, that they are
independent.
  An analysis of the fees payable to the
external audit firm in respect of the
both audit and non-audit services
during the year is set out in note 4 of
the financial statements.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired
by Steve Harris and, in consultation with
the Chief Executive, determines the
Group's policy on executive remuneration,
employment conditions and the individual
remuneration packages of executive
directors and senior management earning
in excess of  50,000 per annum. It
approves all grants of options under the
Group's Share Option Schemes. The
Remuneration Committee meets at least
twice a year and its report is included on
pages 16 and 17.
The Nominations Committee nominates
and recommends the appointment of new
directors to the Board. The Committee is
chaired by the Chairman of the Group and
comprises the non-executive directors and
the Chief Executive. The Nominations
Committee did not meet in 2003.
Investor Relations
The Group maintains a regular dialogue
with institutional shareholders, mainly in
the periods following the announcement of
the interim and final results, but also at
other times during the year. Existing and
potential institutional investors are
encouraged to visit the Group to improve
their understanding of the Group's
business. The Board encourages the
participation of shareholders at its annual
general meeting, notice of which is sent to
shareholders at least 20 working days
before the meeting. The AMS website
 www.admedsol.com' is regularly updated
and provides additional information on the
Group including information of the Group's
products and technology.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's
system of internal control and for reviewing
its effectiveness. In the context of the
Group's business any such system can only
reasonably be expected to manage rather
than eliminate risks arising from its
operations. It can therefore only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material loss or misstatement.
The Combined Code required directors to
review the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal control in the wider
sense, encompassing operational and
compliance matters in addition to the
traditional financial issues.
Key features of the internal control system
are as follows:
  The Group has an organisational
structure with clearly established
responsibilities and lines of
accountability. The Group promotes
the values of integrity and
professionalism.
  The Board has a schedule of matters
expressly reserved for its
consideration. This schedule includes
acquisitions, major capital projects,
treasury, risk management policies
and approval of budgets.
  An ongoing risk management process
has been implemented which
identifies the key business risks
facing the Group including both
financial and operational risks.
  The controls in place to minimise the
occurrence of the risk are
documented and analysed for
effectiveness. These include
procedures for the approval of major
expenditure or commitment of
resources.
  The Board monitors the activities of
the Group through the management
accounts forecasts and other reports
on current activities and plans. The
executive management regularly
monitors financial and operational
performance in detail and takes any
necessary corrective action.
  The Board specifically reserves an
item on the agenda to review areas of
the business in the light of the results
of the risk analysis.
The Board reviews and continues to
review the effectiveness of the Group's
procedure in managing risk and, therefore,
believes it meets the requirements of the
Guidance.