 33
www.admedsol.com Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008
16104 24/04/2009 Proof 5
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance and although, as an AIM listed company, it is not bound by the 
Combined Code, the directors have applied the Combined Code in a manner which it considers appropriate for the size of the Group. 
The Board of Directors
The Board retains full and effective control of the Group and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its 
decision. The Board meets on a formal basis regularly, and met formally nine times in 2008. All of the directors attended 
all of the meetings. Prior to each Board Meeting, directors are sent an agenda including monthly management accounts 
and accompanying reports from the executive directors. Additionally, the Board is responsible for formulating the Group's 
corporate strategy, approval of budgets, monitoring financial performance, approval and review of major capital expenditure, 
corporate governance and risk management. Operational control is delegated to the executive directors and the executive 
management committee (EMC). The EMC meets monthly. All directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and can take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Group's expense. The non-executive 
directors are able to contact the executive directors at any time for further information.
The Board consists of three executive directors and three non-executive directors. Whilst the Board does not meet the 
Combined Code requirements, in that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise non-executive 
directors, the Board believes it is appropriate for the size of the Group. The Chairman is one of the non-executive directors 
and there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive. All of the non-executive directors 
are considered to be independent and independent of the executive management. They are able to discuss matters 
without the executive directors present. The Board formally evaluates its performance annually. Each director completes 
a comprehensive questionnaire, the results are collated by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board. The 
Board then acts upon the findings. Given the size of the Board, the Board does not have a Senior Independent director. 
All directors are required to stand for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, as a 
minimum, every three years thereafter. 
Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific authority to the Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and the Audit 
Committee. The non-executive directors and the chairman are the only members of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Steve Bellamy and met three times in 2008. The Committee considers the appointment 
and fees of the auditors and discusses the scope of the audit and its findings. It is also responsible for monitoring the 
Group's accounting policies, assessing the Group's internal controls and reviewing the annual and interim statements prior 
to their submission for approval by the Board. The Committee has the right of access to the external auditors without the 
attendance of the executive directors and does so regularly. 
In 2008 the Audit Committee chose to review its audit requirements and following a formal tender it engaged Deloitte LLP 
as its auditors. At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Deloitte LLP will stand for re-election.
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditor's independence which includes:
u A review of non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees.
u Discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties that 
could affect independence or the perception of independence. 
u A review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and partners and staff 
involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner.
u Obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
u An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year, 
which is set out in note 5 of the financial statements.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Steve Harris and, in consultation with the Chief Executive, determines the 
Group's policy on executive remuneration, employment conditions, succession planning and the individual remuneration 
packages of executive directors and senior management earning in excess of  75,000 per annum. It approves all new 
incentive schemes, the grants of options under the Group's Share Option Schemes, and the grant of shares under the 
Groups Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The Remuneration Committee met three times in 2008. Its report is included on 
pages 27 to 32.
The Nominations Committee nominates and recommends the appointment of new directors to the Board. In making 
recommendations, the Committee takes into account the balance of skill, knowledge and experience of the Board. The 
Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Group and comprises the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive. 
The Nominations Committee met once in 2008.  stockcode: AMS
34
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008
16104 24/04/2009 Proof 5
Corporate Governance
Investor Relations
The Group maintains a regular dialogue with its shareholders, mainly in the periods following the announcement of the 
interim and final results, but also at other times during the year. The views of shareholders are sought through direct 
contact and from feedback from advisers and are communicated to the Board as a whole. The Board encourages the 
participation of shareholders at its Annual General Meeting, notice of which is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days 
before the meeting. The AMS website  www.admedsol.com' is regularly updated and provides additional information on the 
Group including information on the Group's products and technology.
General Meeting
The Company proposes separate resolutions for each separate issue and specifically relating to the reports and accounts. 
The Company ensures all proxy votes are counted and indicates the level of proxies on each resolution along with the 
abstentions after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In the context of the 
Group's business any such system can only reasonably be expected to manage rather than eliminate risks arising from its 
operations. It can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss or misstatement.
Key features of the internal control system are as follows:
u The Group has an organisational structure with clearly established responsibilities and lines of accountability. The Group 
promotes the values of integrity and professionalism. The members of the Board are available to hear, in confidence, 
any individual's concerns about improprieties.
u The Board has a schedule of matters expressly reserved for its consideration. This schedule includes acquisitions, major 
capital projects, treasury, risk management policies and approval of budgets and health and safety.
u An ongoing risk management process has been implemented which identifies the key business risks facing the Group including 
both financial and operational risks. This process and the key business risks are reviewed by the Board at least once a year.
u The controls in place to minimise the occurrence of the risk are documented and analysed for effectiveness. These 
include procedures for the approval of major expenditure or commitment of resources.
u The Board monitors the activities of the Group through the management accounts, monthly forecasts and other reports 
on current activities and plans. The executive management regularly monitors financial and operational performance in 
detail and takes any necessary corrective action.
u The Group operates a  whistle-blowing' policy enabling any individual with a concern to approach the non-executives 
in confidence.
The Board reviews and continues to review the effectiveness of the Group's procedures in managing risk and, therefore, 
believes it meets the requirements of the Guidance.
The Audit Committee has considered the need for internal audit. It is of the opinion that, given the size and nature of the Group's 
operations and the other controls in place, it would not be appropriate at the present time. The matter is formally reviewed at least 
annually. The Group does call on the services of external bodies to review the controls in certain areas of the Group. The quality 
assurance systems are reviewed by the Group's notified bodies, the British Standards Institute (BSI) and TUV Product Service on a 
regular basis. The British Safety Council also reviews and reports on the Health and Safety Systems in the Group each year.
Going Concern
In carrying out their duties in respect of going concern, the directors have carried out a review of the Group's financial 
position and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months. These have been based on a comprehensive review of revenue, 
expenditure and cash flows, taking into account specific business risks and the current economic environment. With 
regards to the Group's financial position, it had cash and cash equivalents at the year end of  1.9 million and investments 
totalling  5.7 million with a maturity not exceeding three months, while having no reliance on banking facilities.
While the current economic environment is uncertain, AMS operates in a market whose demographics are extremely 
favourable, underpinned by an increasing need for products to treat chronic and acute wounds. Consequently, strong market 
growth is predicted. The Group has a number of long-term contracts with  customers across different geographic regions and 
also with substantial financial resources, ranging from government agencies through to global healthcare companies.
Having taken the above into consideration the Directors have reached a conclusion that the Group is well-placed to manage 
its business risks despite the current uncertain economic outlook. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
By order of the Board
Mary G Tavener
Company Secretary
22 April 2009
Corporate Governance continued