 BPI REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the
principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice issued by the Financial
Services Authority as an appendix to its Listing Rules. This statement describes how the
principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Group's compliance with the code
provisions. The Board has adopted the revised Combined Code provisions, issued in July
2003, and these will be applied for the year ended 31 December 2004. 
THE BOARD
The Board meets a minimum of six times per year and comprises of the Chairman, the Chief
Executive, the Finance Director and four independent non executive directors. Biographical
details of each director are shown on page 19. The non executive directors bring strong
independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Board's
deliberations. The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include the setting of corporate strategy, approval of annual budgets and decisions on
major capital expenditure, together with acquisitions and disposals of businesses. The Board
is assisted in its tasks by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. The Board
has access to the advice and services of a full time experienced Company Secretary appointed
by the Board and independent professional advice may be taken by the directors as required.
So far none of the directors have felt it necessary to take this course. The four directors 
re-appointed in the year are experienced listed company directors. On initial appointment 
all directors are given a comprehensive introduction to the Group's business activities and
senior management. 
The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that the mix and breadth 
of experience is sufficient to provide a balance of independent judgement.
BOARD LEADERSHIP
The Board considers it should be free to make its choice of Chairman in any way that seems
best for the Company, at the relevant time. At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, Cameron
McLatchie relinquished the role of Chief Executive and it is his intention to seek re-election
annually as Chairman. A senior non executive director, Professor Neil Hood, acts as the Deputy
Chairman of the Board, chairs the Nominations and Remuneration Committees and is
considered the senior non executive director . In this capacity he also assumes such
responsibilities as might be designated by the Board. 
INDEPENDENCE OF NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Board believes that independence is a matter of judgement and conscience, and 
that to be independent non executive directors should be free from any business, or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement. Their interest in receiving fees as a director and being a shareholder should not
prejudice their independence. All non executive directors are considered to be independent.
AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
Executive management is responsible for providing the Board with all the information, of
which it is aware, that is relevant to the discharge of the Board's responsibilities. The Board
therefore expects to receive timely advice on all material information about the Company, its
activities, performance and its projects. The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary,
establish the agenda for each Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed to
Board members in advance of the meeting. As a general rule, presentations on specific
subjects are sent to the Board in advance, so that Board meeting time is used for focused
discussion.
DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company is willing to enter into discussions with any shareholder. Each year a
programme of meetings with major institutional investors take place, covering the principal
issues affecting the Company its trading and its results. All shareholders have access to the
Company's website at www.bpipoly.com.
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting. All
directors are expected to be present and those who chair committees of the Board will be
available to answer any relevant questions. The Company uses the Annual General Meeting
to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation. The level of proxy
votes lodged on each Resolution, as set out in code provision 3.2.1, will also be indicated at
the meeting. 
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of agreeing to the appointment of its
own members, for nominating them for election by the shareholders on first appointment
and thereafter at three yearly intervals. The Nominations Committee, comprising a majority
of non executive directors, has the responsibility for making recommendations for new
appointments to the Board. The Deputy Chairman, Professor Neil Hood, chairs the
Committee and the other members are identified on page 19. 
A30843 BPI AR  16/4/04  4:14 pm  Page 27 BPI REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Company has an Audit Committee of all the non executive directors, chaired by 
John Houston, and meets at least three times a year. The Committee has written terms 
of reference that outline its authority and duties.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the minutes of the Committee
are circulated to all Board members. The Finance Director and the Group Internal Auditor
attend the meetings. The Chairman and Chief Executive are also invited to attend, if required
to do so, by the Committee. The Company's external auditors also attend the meetings, at
which the Committee considers the Company's final results and at any other meetings where
they wish to discuss relevant matters. The external auditors are given the opportunity each
year to speak confidentially to the non executive directors. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Professor Neil Hood. It consists of the non
executive directors and is responsible for advising the Board on the remuneration of executive
directors. The Chairman of the Committee is available to answer questions at the Annual
General Meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors acknowledge that it is responsible for the Group's systems of internal
control and for reviewing their effectiveness. The Board has established a control structure
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. Throughout the year the Board has complied with principle D.2 of the
1998 Combined Code by operating a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks the Group faces. The Board, through the Audit Committee, regularly reviews
the process which has been in place throughout the year and to the date of approval of this
report.
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control
in compliance with Provision D.2.1 of the 1998 Combined Code include the following:
During the year the Audit Committee of the Board:
 reviews the external and internal audit work plans.
 receives and reviews half yearly risk management reports and risk tables. The Group
operates a risk management process which identifies the key risks facing the Group and
reports via internal audit as to how those risks are being managed. This is based on risk
tables identifying the key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the estimated
potential impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks.
 receives and considers reports from management and internal audit on the system of
internal control and any significant control weaknesses. The Audit Committee also receives
reports from the external auditors who consider controls only to the extent necessary to
form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
 discusses with management the actions taken on control weaknesses identified in internal
and external audit reports.
 receives and reviews the annual Combined Code internal control report from internal audit.
This is based on a combination of risk management reporting and the completion of key
control questionnaires which confirm the extent to which the Group complies with the
group control procedures which is signed off and confirming compliance with statutory
obligations.
 reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board which receives copies
of all Audit Committee papers and minutes.
The Group operates with annual budgets which are approved by the Board. Actual results are
reported every month and compared with budgets and previous year data. 
Operating and financial controls and procedures, are detailed in a financial procedures
manual, which includes appropriate authorisation limits.
REVISED COMBINED CODE
The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance applies to reporting years beginning on 
or after 1 November 2003 and the directors are currently reviewing the extent to which any of
the Group's existing corporate governance arrangements require amendment. The directors
intend that any such amendments will be dealt with in the year ended 31 December 2004.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE
The Group has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 with the code
provisions set out in Sections 1 and 2 of the 1998 Combined Code. 
A30843 BPI AR  16/4/04  4:14 pm  Page 28