 The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive
directors, membership of the Committee is detailed in the
table below. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer ( CEO') 
and Chief Financial Officer ( CFO') may attend meetings and
provide input as required. The Company Secretary or his
deputy serves as secretary to the Committee. Details of
attendance at meetings is shown in the table on page 38.
Members Committee member since
Giles Kerr (Committee Chairman) 6 November 2007
Colin Blakemore 16 July 2008
William Jenkins 27 July 2005
Giles Kerr, as Director of Finance at Oxford University, is
considered by the Board to have the necessary significant
recent and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the
chairman of the Committee. He receives additional remuneration
to compensate him for his additional responsibilities, as set 
out on page 53. Other members bring detailed knowledge 
of scientific research and clinical trial operations to the
deliberations of the Committee. For further information see
the directors' biographies on pages 34 and 35.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found
on the Group's website or from the Company on request.
These terms of reference reflect the recommendations of 
 The Smith Guidance'.
A summary of matters considered at the Committee since 
the last Annual Report and actions taken is shown below:
- Review of the Group's half year results to 30 September
2009 and full year results to 31 March 2010
- Review of the reports from the external auditor on the
interim and full year results to 31 March 2010
- Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee
estimate for the full-year audit
- Review of trading updates issued by the Group and
amendments thereto
- Assessment of the going concern basis
- Review of risk management systems, internal controls 
and fraud procedures
- Review of the disclosures relating to material risks 
in the Business Review
- Assessment of the need for an internal audit function
- Review of monitoring process for equity portfolio and 
its valuation
- Considering report of internal review work covering 
a review of controls at Group sites in the UK and US
- Completed effectiveness review.
A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed
monitoring of the interim and annual financial statements. 
As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and
auditor's report with management and the external auditor
and considers significant judgements and issues contained 
in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with 
the relevant statutes and accounting standards and if they
present a balanced assessment of the Company's financial
position and prospects. Following this discussion the
Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the results of the
Committee's review to the full Board. The external auditor
generally meets with the non-executive directors at the 
time when the half and full-year results are discussed.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the
Group maintains an adequate system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the
detailed monitoring of the controls and reports to the Board
on its findings twice a year. The Committee has reviewed the
system of material controls including financial, operational,
compliance and risk for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of this Annual Report. Such a system
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness
of these controls are that they allow the maximisation of
shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while
ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed. 
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they 
enable the proper management of business risks without 
so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they 
inhibit proper running of the business.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the
material controls of the Group, which are embedded within
the day-to-day business. There is an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks
faced by the Group. A reporting structure has been in place
throughout the year and up to the date of approval of 
the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the
directors in accordance with the Code.
44
Directors and governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Audit Committee report
For the year ended 31 March 2010
7884 Report 2010_Report 2010  02/06/2010  17:40  Page 44 The Group has a Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and
including staff from all sections of the business, which reviews
the risks throughout the business and identifies and evaluates
risks which may impact on the Group's strategic and business
objectives. The Risk Committee maintains a risk management
plan that identifies the key risks. The plan is designed to
assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact
should they occur, how such risks may be mitigated and
monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for
managing the risks. The Committee continues to monitor all
areas of risk and the progress of actions designed to mitigate
such risks; it reports its findings twice-yearly through the Audit
Committee to the Board. The Committee received the latest
report at its May 2010 meeting and was satisfied with 
actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identified.
The Group has also set up a Compliance Committee to
oversee the establishment of a complete compliance system
to ensure BTG fulfils Federal and State requirements for
operating a sales and marketing team in the US by the time 
it commences product sales in October 2010. The results 
will be reported to the Audit Committee as part of the twice-
yearly risk management report.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls
and risk management systems. It also reviews the scope 
and results of the external audit and the independence and
objectivity of the auditor. The Company currently has no
dedicated internal audit function and the Committee reviews
on an annual basis as to whether this is still appropriate. 
The Committee considered the process for internal audit
compliance as part of its review. The process for compliance 
is included as part of the responsibilities of each local finance
function. This process was strengthened during the year
whereby each office is to be visited by Head Office finance 
staff to review the work of local internal audit compliance and
to carry out further testing. During the year the Group's offices 
in the UK and US were visited by Head Office finance and the
Australian office will be visited in the coming year, in addition
to repeat visits to other sites. 
The first report on this new process was reported to the 
Board via the Audit Committee in May; reports will be made
twice yearly in future in May and November. The Committee
noted that the internal audit work did not identify any material
weaknesses in internal control but approved proposals 
to enhance control procedures. The Committee considered
that, bearing in mind the degree of local and central control
and review, that a dedicated full time internal auditor was 
not required at this time.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements
under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns
about possible improprieties in matters of financial
performance or other matters are operating effectively and
that appropriate follow up action takes place. The current
arrangements are under review and a revised process will 
be launched shortly.
The Audit Committee reviews the overall performance of 
the auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement
and remuneration. The Committee discussed the auditor's
proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the audit
of the results for the year to 31 March 2010 and also reviews
the non-audit work carried out by the Company's auditor,
KPMG Audit Plc ( KPMG'), to ensure that such services do 
not impair its independence or objectivity. KPMG may not 
be appointed to undertake any non-audit work without 
the approval of the Committee where the cost of the work 
is expected to exceed  50,000. 
The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM
to ensure its independence. The Audit Committee regularly
discusses the independence of the auditor and whether 
there should be a need to rotate audit firms. Given the relative
size of BTG to that of KPMG and that the lead audit partner 
is changed on a regular basis (at least every five years), 
the Audit Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is
independent in its reporting on the audit of the Group and
rotation of firms is not necessary. A new lead audit partner
took over the audit as from the year ended 31 March 2009. 
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets with 
the auditor in the absence of the executive directors and
management.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried
out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results 
and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
Giles Kerr
Chairman of the Audit Committee
45
Directors and governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
7884 Report 2010_Report 2010  02/06/2010  17:40  Page 45