 72
bwin.party Annual report & accounts 2012
  Founder Shareholders of both bwin and PartyGaming (holding in aggregate 
22% of bwin.party's share capital) have Board representatives which 
facilitates a productive dialogue with these investors.
  Maintaining good communications with the investment analyst 
community so that there exists a portfolio of independent research 
on the business. This also allows the Company to understand how 
it is being perceived by the investor community generally.
E. Audit Committee Report
Purpose
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent 
arrangements for considering how it should apply the required fi nancial 
reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate 
relationship with the Company's joint auditors, BDO LLP and BDO Limited. 
Membership
The Board has done this by appointing an Audit Committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee are:
  Helmut Kern (Chairman)
  Tim Bristow
  Rod Perry
  Sylvia Coleman
Helmut Kern has recent and relevant fi nancial experience. 
Sylvia Coleman was appointed a member of the Audit Committee 
on 8 March 2013.
The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent directors 
should serve on the Audit Committee and the Company has complied 
with this recommendation throughout 2012. 
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee has adopted terms of reference, approved by 
the Board that are available on the Company's website: http://www.
bwinparty.com/AboutUs/CorporateGovernance/AuditCommittee.
aspx. In summary the main responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are to:
  consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the 
appointment of the head of the internal audit function and also the 
external auditors as well as the re-appointment of the latter;
  recommend the audit fee to the Board and develop and recommend 
to the Board bwin.party's policy in relation to the provision of non-
audit services by the external auditor;
  monitor the integrity of the fi nancial statements of bwin.party and 
any formal announcements relating to the Company's fi nancial 
performance and to review, and challenge where necessary, the 
actions and judgements of management in relation to the half year 
and annual fi nancial statements before submission to the Board;
  meet with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to 
discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising from 
the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss (in the 
absence of management, where appropriate);
  make recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, 
new or amended accounting policy;
  monitor and review the internal audit programme and its 
effectiveness; 
  ensure co-ordination between the offi cers responsible for internal 
audit and the external auditors, and that the internal audit function 
is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within 
bwin.party;
  consider any major audit recommendations and the major fi ndings 
of internal investigations and management's response (in the absence 
of management, where appropriate); 
  monitor and review bwin.party's systems for internal control, 
fi nancial reporting and risk management; and
  review the individual internal audit reports covering various areas 
and activities of the business
Business during the year
During the year to 31 December 2012, the Audit Committee met four 
times to review and consider the following items of business:
March: 
  2011 Annual Report 
  The external auditors' report and the required letter of representation 
from the Company
  The non-audit services provided by the external auditors
  The re-appointment of the external auditors at the 2012 AGM
  The internal audit status report
  A proposal on external audit re-tendering
  Annual review of the Audit Committee's work and terms of reference
June: 
  External auditors' management letters
  The external auditors' 2012 planning report and engagement letter 
  The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
  Latest internal audit status report
  Group risk register
  External audit re-tendering
August:
  External auditors' half year review relating to the 2012 half year 
results and the required letter of representation from bwin.party
  Review of the 2012 half year results
  The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
  Latest internal audit status report
  Treasury management update
December:
  Group risk register
  Latest internal audit status report 
  Follow-up in respect of the management letter arising from the 
last audit
Governance
Audit Committee Report 73
Overview Strategy Review 
of 2012
Markets 
and risks
Responsibility & 
relationships
Board of
Directors
Governance Financial 
statements
Share 
information
Notice of Annual 
General Meeting
Glossary
  Updated report from the external auditors on their plans for auditing 
the 2012 annual fi nancial results
  The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
At these meetings, members of the Audit Committee met with 
management and with the internal and external auditors. The Audit 
Committee members also met privately with the external auditors and 
separately with the internal audit function, without management 
representatives present. 
Through these meetings and review process the Audit Committee has 
satisfi ed itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems 
remain in place to identify and contain business risks and that the 
integrity of the Company's fi nancial reporting is sound. In doing so 
the Audit Committee continues to exercise its authority to seek any 
information it requires from any employee of the Company.
In 2013, the Audit Committee has met once to review and recommend 
the approval of the 2012 full year results and the 2012 Annual Report.
Risk management and effective internal controls
The section,  Key risks' on pages 56 and 57 of the Annual Report sets out 
the main risks impacting the Group's business.
bwin.party maintains a robust system of internal control for the purpose 
of safeguarding the investment of shareholders in the Company and the 
Group's assets. At least annually the Board conducts a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls, covering all 
material controls, including fi nancial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems. bwin.party's system of internal 
control reduces the probability that business risks might impede the 
Company in achieving its objectives, but it cannot eliminate these risks 
and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has an internal audit department, which also carries out the 
Company's risk management monitoring. During the year, management 
identifi ed the risks attaching to the business and, on an ongoing basis, 
efforts are being taken to mitigate these risks. Throughout the year 
bwin.party's internal auditors performed internal audits of offi ces 
and departments within the business to assess whether adequate 
internal controls are in place to protect the Group, its employees and 
shareholders. The internal audit reports are presented to the Audit 
Committee and the Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit 
Committee as well as Chairman of the Audit Committee, to whom he has 
direct access.
In accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report, the 
Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has completed its 
annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, 
and is satisfi ed that it is in accordance with that guidance.
The Group continues to adopt and publicise a formal  whistleblowing' 
procedure by which employees can, in confi dence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in fi nancial or other matters. This procedure is set 
out in the Group's employee handbooks and has been reviewed by the 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is satisfi ed that arrangements 
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such 
matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
External auditors
During the year ended 31 December 2012, BDO LLP was appointed under 
an engagement letter to act as auditors to enable the Company to meet 
its obligations to prepare fi nancial statements in accordance with 
the Listing Rules. For the purposes of fi ling the Company's fi nancial 
statements in Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been appointed 
to act as joint auditors to allow an audit report to be issued under 
section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Act 1999.
In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee made 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external 
auditors, approved their remuneration (both subject to shareholder 
approval) and also approved their terms of engagement. The Audit 
Committee has also established a policy regarding the appointment 
of external auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group and 
will keep this under continual review. This policy dictates that in the 
Company's fi nancial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided 
by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence 
for acquisitions and other specifi c matters noted below, should not 
exceed the total fees for audit services they provide. In the year 
ended 31 December 2012, the proportion of total non-audit fees 
to total audit fees paid to the external auditors was 0.14:1.0.
In addition to their statutory duties, BDO LLP is also employed where, 
as a result of their position as auditors or for their specifi c expertise, they 
either must, or the Audit Committee accepts they are best placed to, 
perform the work in question. This is primarily work in relation to 
matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory 
fi lings and certain business acquisitions and disposals. In such 
circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review the specifi c 
service requirements and consider any impact on objectivity and 
independence of the auditors and any appropriate safeguards to this. 
As such the Audit Committee believes it appropriate for these non-audit 
services to be excluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above. In the year 
ended 31 December 2012 the total fees paid to the external auditors 
in respect of due diligence for acquisitions was  0.07 million.
Helmut Kern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
15 March 2013