 Byotrol plc 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 15  
Principles of Corporate Governance 
The Company's Board appreciates the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability 
and risk management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.  It believes that corporate 
governance involves more than a simple box ticking  approach to establish whether a company has met the 
requirements of a number of specific rules and regulations.  Rather the issue is one of applying corporate 
governance principles (including those set out in the Corporate Governance Guidelines for Smaller Quoted 
Companies published in September 2010) in a sensible and pragmatic fashion having regard to the individual 
circumstances of a particular company's business.  The key objective is to enhance and protect shareholder 
value.  The Company has not formally adopted the Corporate Governance code. 
 
Board Structure 
The current Board structure comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive and one Non-Executive 
Director.  The biographies of all serving directors appear on pages 17.  
 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.  The Board is aware of the 
need for independence amongst its Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that it has sufficient independence 
amongst its Non-Executive Directors. 
 
A statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on page 18.  The Non-
Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive 
Director are fully considered.  To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors have full and timely 
access to all relevant information and there is a procedure for all directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Group.  The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters reserved to it and meets at least quarterly in person and monthly by conference call.  It is responsible for 
overall Group strategy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing 
matters.  The directors have attended all meetings. 
 
All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years. 
 
At this stage of the Group's development there are no formal systems of appraisal of Board members.  When the 
Group's size and resources justify it, such appraisal systems will be implemented. 
 
The following committees, which have written terms of reference, deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs. 
 
  The Remuneration Committee, comprising non-executive directors, is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework of Executive remuneration and its cost.  The 
Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive 
Directors, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.  The 
Board itself determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors on the recommendation of the Chief 
Executive.  The Remuneration Committee comprised Ralph Kugler (until 31 March 2014), Till Medinger, and 
Nicholas Martel (from 19 April 2013).  The report on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 12 to 14. 
 
  The Audit Committee's prime tasks are to review the scope of internal and external audit, to receive regular 
reports from Mazars LLP and prior to their appointment from Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP, and to review the half-
yearly and annual financial statements before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on 
accounting policies and areas of management judgment and estimation.  The Committee is responsible for 
monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the 
shareholders.  The Committee acts as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and contributes to the 
Board's review of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control and risk management systems and 
processes.  The Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function and has concluded that, at 
the present time, no such function is necessary.  This will be reviewed on a regular basis.  It advises the 
Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work, 
and discusses the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors.  
 
The Committee, which meets at least three times per year, provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external 
auditors.  Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Directors. 
 
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors' independence each year which 
includes: 
o a review of the non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees; 
o discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any 
other parties that could affect independence or the perception of independence; 
o a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and 
partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner; and 
o obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgment, they are 
independent.  Byotrol plc 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 16  
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services 
during the year is set out in Note 2 to the financial statements. 
The Committee members are all the non-executive directors and comprised Till Medinger (Chairman) and 
Ralph Kugler until 19 April 2013 when Nicholas Martel joined the Committee. Ralph Kugler left the 
Committee on 31 March 2014. 
 
Internal Control 
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. 
 
The Board has designed the Group's system of internal control in order to provide the directors with reasonable 
assurance that its assets are safeguarded, that transactions are authorised and properly recorded and that 
material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period.  However, no 
system of internal control can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives or provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.  
 
The key elements of the control system in operation are: 
  The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in place 
an organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility defined and with appropriate delegation of 
authority; 
  There are established procedures for planning, approval and monitoring of capital expenditure and 
information systems for monitoring the Group's financial performance against approved budgets and 
forecasts; 
 
The departmental heads are required annually to undertake a full assessment process to identify and quantify the 
risks that face their businesses and functions, and assess the adequacy of the prevention, monitoring and 
modification practices in place for those risks.  In addition, regular reports about significant risks and associated 
control and monitoring procedures are made to the Executive Committee.  They are responsible for reviewing the 
risk assessment for completeness and accuracy.  The consolidated results of these reviews are reported to the 
Board to enable the directors to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control.  The process adopted 
by the Group accords with the guidance contained in the document Internal Control Guidance for Directors on 
the Combined Code  issued by the ICAEW. 
 
The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors on a regular basis and from Executive Directors 
of the Group.  During the period, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control as described above.  The Board receives periodic reports from all committees. 
 
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 
and up to the date of approval of the report and financial statements that have required the Board to deal with 
any related material internal control issues. 
 
Relations with Shareholders 
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.  Effective two-way communication 
with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is actively pursued and this encompasses issues such as 
performance, policy and strategy.  During the period the directors had meetings with institutional investors whose 
combined shareholdings represented over 60% of the total issued share capital of the Company. 
 
Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairman presents a 
review of the results and comments on current business activity.  The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any shareholder questions. 
 
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 July 2014.  The notice of the Annual General Meeting may be 
found in the accompanying separate document. 
 
Going Concern 
Having taken the steps referred to on page 8, the directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and 
Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.  For this reason, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
 
 
David Traynor 
Chief Executive 
4 July 2014 
 
 