 12
CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
COMBINED CODE STATEMENT
The directors recognise the importance of adopting
good corporate governance practices in the best
interests of all shareholders. During the year, the
company has applied the principles of good
governance set out in section 1 of the Combined
Code (the Code ) in the following ways:
DIRECTORS
The board
The board comprises two executive directors and
two non-executive directors. Their biographies
appear on page 9. A review of these shows a range
and calibre of experience and expertise sufficient to
bring independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct
which is vital to the success of the Group. The board
is responsible to the shareholders for the proper
management of the Group. A statement of directors'
responsibilities in respect of the financial statements 
is set out below. The board meets regularly and 
a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board
for decision has been adopted. The non-executive
directors have a particular responsibility to ensure
that the strategies proposed by the executive
directors are fully considered. To enable the board to
discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate
and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed
to all directors in advance of board meetings.
The company secretary is responsible to the board
for ensuring that the board procedures are followed
and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. There is an agreed procedure for
directors to take independent professional advice.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Dr Ford is both Chairman and Chief Executive which
does not comply with Code Provision A.2.1. However,
the directors consider that this is appropriate at the
company's current stage of development.
Supply of information
The board is provided with appropriate and timely
information and directors make further enquiries
where necessary. Briefing papers are circulated with
an agenda in advance of each board meeting and
directors regularly report at board meetings on their
areas of responsibility.
Appointments to the board
As the board has just four members, a nomination
committee has not been established. If further
appointments to the board are appropriate, the board
as a whole will fulfil the function of a nomination
committee.
Re-election
All directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at least every three years. The company's
Articles of Association require newly appointed
directors to submit themselves for election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting
(see page 32 for Annual General Meeting Agenda).
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION
Application of the Code principles on directors'
remuneration may be seen in the Directors'
Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 16.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Members of the board meet from time to time with
representatives of major shareholders to discuss the
Group's objectives and progress.
Constructive use of the AGM
The board will use the AGM to communicate with
private investors and encourages their participation.
Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at
least 20 working days before the meeting and
separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially
separate issue.
Full details of the results of proxy voting, as
recommended by the Code, are provided at the AGM.
The chairmen of the audit and remuneration
committees attend the AGM and are available to
answer questions.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial reporting
The report and accounts are designed to present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of the
company's position and prospects.
Going concern
In compliance with paragraph 12.43 (v) of the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, we report
that, based on the company's budgets and financial
projections, the directors have satisfied themselves
that the business is a going concern. The board has
a reasonable expectation that the company has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and therefore 
the financial statements are prepared on the going
concern basis.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare
accounts for each financial year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company
and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. In preparing those accounts, the
directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
  state whether applicable accounting standards 
have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the accounts. CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 13
The directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
Internal control
The board acknowledges that it is responsible for 
the Group's systems of internal control and for the
continuing process of reviewing their effectiveness.
During the year and up to the date of approval the
process accorded with the Turnbull guidance with
particular regard to ensuring that appropriate risk
management processes were in place. The directors
have satisfied themselves that the Group complies
fully. During the year a full review of all internal
control systems took place.
Internal control systems are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The directors confirm that they
have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal control that has been in operation during the
year. This review entailed the directors considering
the significant risks in the business and the controls
required to minimise those risks. The results of this
have been documented and will be reviewed and
updated on a regular basis. 
Internal control: Financial
The internal control process has now been reviewed
and its main features are:
  Financial Reporting: there is a comprehensive 
budgeting system with an annual budget approved
by the board. Monthly trading results are reported 
against the corresponding figures for the budget 
and previous year.
  Capital Expenditure: there is a comprehensive 
budgeting system for capital expenditure with 
an annual budget approved by the board. 
A committee comprising Gerry Ford, Ben Price 
and other senior management has been set up to 
appraise and authorise individual material items 
of capital expenditure.
  Cashflow: an annual cashflow forecast is drawn 
up and approved by the board and actual cashflow 
is reviewed monthly against this forecast.
  Organisational Structure: a clear organisational 
structure with defined responsibilities and clear 
authority levels has been set.
  Branch Audit: a Branch Audit function exists to 
ensure that Group procedures regarding cash and 
stock handling are being adhered to in the caf s.
Internal control: Risk management
During the year the Group had in place formalised
procedures to identify, evaluate and manage
significant risks and to enable management to
assess and regularly report to the main board on 
risk management issues on business, operational,
financial and non-compliance risks.
Audit committee and auditors
The board has appointed an audit committee
comprising the two non-executive directors. The
chairman of the committee is David King. The
committee complies with written terms of reference,
which deal clearly with its authority and duties.
The committee's duties include reappointing the
auditors, setting their remuneration, reviewing the
scope and results of the audit and its cost
effectiveness, the independence and objectivity of
the auditors and involvement in the production of
annual and interim reports. Other non-audit services
provided by the auditors are taken into consideration
as part of the review process.
Remuneration committee
The committee members are the board's two non-
executive directors, John Barnes (who is Chairman)
and David King, who are advised by the Chief
Executive Gerry Ford.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE
During the year, the board considers that the Company
complied with the provisions set out in the Code with
the following exceptions:
Code Provision A.2.1 
Dr Ford is both Chairman and Chief Executive and
there is no senior non-executive director which does
not comply with Code Provision A.2.1. However, 
the directors consider that this is appropriate at the
Company's current stage of development.
Code Provision D.3.1
The audit committee has two rather than the
recommended three members as there are just two
non executive directors on the board. The board
believes this is appropriate at the Company's current
stage of development.
Revised code
The directors are aware that the revised code on
corporate governance will apply from the year ending
31 May 2005 and are taking steps to assess the
implications for the group.