 CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 13
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
COMBINED CODE STATEMENT
The directors recognise the importance of adopting
good corporate governance practices in the best
interests of all shareholders. During the year, the
Company applied the principles of good governance
set out in section 1 of the Combined Code (the
Code ) in the following ways:
DIRECTORS
The Board
The Board comprises two executive directors 
and two non-executive directors. Their biographies
appear on page 9. A review of these shows a range
of experience and expertise sufficient to bring
independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct
which is vital to the success of the Group. Both 
non-executive directors hold shares and share
options (as disclosed on pages 10 and 16) and 
M J Barnes is a non-executive director of Interior
Services Group PLC, where J D King is CEO.
However, because the number of shares and 
share options held by the non-executive directors 
is small and there are no cross directorships 
between executive and non-executive directors, 
the non-executive directors are considered by 
the Board to be independent. 
Board meetings
At Board meetings the agenda normally comprises 
a review of the management financial statements, 
a report on the progress of the store roll out and an
update on the progress of the Group's other strategic
objectives, with directors reporting on their areas of
responsibility. The Board meetings in September and
January also cover the approval of the preliminary
and interim financial results respectively and the May
meeting deals with the approval of the annual budget.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the
proper management of the Group. A statement of
directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial
statements is set out below. To enable the Board to
discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate
and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed
to all directors in advance of board meetings. There
is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the
Board, these include the determination of strategy,
approval of major corporate acquisitions and budget
and capital expenditure programme approvals.
Matters delegated to the executives include store
acquisitions and disposals and most operational
issues. The Board met six times during the year; 
all directors attended all meetings except J D King,
who was unavailable for one meeting.
The non-executive directors meet regularly without
the executive directors present.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board
for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed
and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. There is an agreed procedure for
directors to take independent professional advice.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Dr Ford is both Chairman and Chief Executive, which
does not comply with Code Provision A.2.1. However,
the directors consider that this is appropriate at the
company's current stage of development. Dr Ford
has no other significant commitments which
constrain his ability to fulfil his role.
Re-election
All directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at least every three years. The Company's
Articles of Association require newly appointed
directors to submit themselves for election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. 
B J Price and J D King will retire by rotation and offer
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting (see page 9 for their details) 
Board evaluation
A formal process for board evaluation has been
introduced following the year ended 31 May 2005.
This consists of the appraisal of the Chairman by the
independent non-executive directors, the appraisal of
the other executive director by the Chairman, and the
appraisal of the non executive directors by the
executive directors. Should action be required as a
result of the process, the Chairman will make the
necessary arrangements.
Board committee structure
The Board has the following committees for which
terms of reference are available on request:
The Remuneration Committee consists of the
Board's two non-executive directors, John Barnes
(who is Chairman) and David King. They are advised
by the Chief Executive, Gerry Ford. Application of the
Code principles on directors' remuneration may be
seen in the report on remuneration on pages 15 to 17.
The Remuneration Committee met twice during the
year with all members in attendance.
The Nomination Committee was set up during the
year and consists of Gerry Ford (Chairman), John
Barnes and David King. It did not meet during the
year as there have been no Board vacancies. Should
there be an appointment to the Board, the Chairman
would ensure that a full, formal and tailored induction
programme was put in place.
The Audit Committee comprises of the two non-
executive directors. The Chairman of the committee
is David King. The committee complies with written
terms of reference, which deal clearly with its
authority and duties. The committee met twice during
the year and all members attended both meetings.
The committee's duties include reviewing the scope
and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and 
the auditor's remuneration, the independence and
objectivity of the auditors and involvement in the
production of annual and interim reports. Other 
non-audit services provided by the auditors consist
of routine tax compliance work and are taken into
consideration as part of the review process. Any
additional projects are required to be approved 
by the Audit Committee as they arise to ensure
continued independence and objectivity. There is 
in place a whistle blowing  policy which allows 
staff to raise any concerns in confidence.  14
CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial reporting
The report and financial statements are designed to
present a balanced and understandable assessment
of the Group's position and prospects.
Going concern
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6 (R3) we report
that, based on the Group's budgets and financial
projections, the directors have satisfied themselves
that the business is a going concern. The Board 
has a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue to operate for 
the foreseeable future and therefore the financial
statements are prepared on the going concern basis.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for 
the Group's systems of internal control and for the
continuing process of reviewing their effectiveness.
During the year and up to the date of approval, the
process accorded with the Turnbull guidance with
particular regard to ensuring that appropriate risk
management processes were in place. The directors
have satisfied themselves that the Group complies fully.
Internal control systems are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The directors confirm that they
have reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of
internal control that have been in operation during
the year. This review entailed the directors considering
the significant risks in the business and the controls
required to minimise those risks. The results of this
review have been documented and will be reviewed
and updated on a regular basis. The Group has an
internal branch audit function. During the year, the
Board reviewed whether there was a need to extend
this function and concluded that it was desirable 
to continue with the current arrangements.
Internal control: financial
The internal control process has now been reviewed
and its main features are:
  Financial Reporting: there is a comprehensive 
budgeting system with an annual budget approved
by the Board. Monthly trading results are reported 
against the corresponding figures for the budget 
and previous year.
  Capital Expenditure: there is a comprehensive
budgeting system for capital expenditure with an
annual budget approved by the Board. A committee
comprising Gerry Ford, Ben Price and other senior
management has been set up to appraise and
authorise individual material items of capital
expenditure.
  Cashflow: an annual cashflow forecast is drawn 
up and approved by the Board and actual cashflow
is reviewed monthly against this forecast.
  Organisational Structure: a clear organisational 
structure with defined responsibilities and clear 
authority levels has been set.
  Branch Audit: a branch audit function exists to 
ensure that Group procedures regarding cash and 
stock handling are being adhered to in the caf s.
Internal control: risk management
During the year, the Group had in place formalised
procedures to identify, evaluate and manage
significant risks and to enable management to
assess and regularly report to the Board on issues
relating to business, operational, financial and 
non-compliance risks.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board is always willing to meet with its institutional
shareholders and has a programme of such meetings
over the year. The Board believes it is most appropriate
for the Chairman and Finance Director to hold these
meetings. The Code recommends that the non-
executive directors should maintain sufficient contact
with major shareholders to understand their issues
and concerns. Although none of the non-executive
directors have had direct contact with shareholders
during the year, which is non-compliance with the
Code, feedback from analysts and shareholders is
given to them through analyst response packs and
they are willing to be contacted by shareholders
should they have any concerns that cannot be
resolved through the normal channels.
Compliance
The Board believes that during the year the Group
complied with the provisions set out in the Code with
the following exceptions:
Code Provision A.1.5
There was no directors' and officers' liability
insurance during the year. During the coming year,
the Board has agreed to review the situation to
determine if such insurance is appropriate. 
Code Provision A.2.1 
Dr Ford is both Chairman and Chief Executive. However,
the directors consider that this is appropriate at the
Company's current stage of development.
Code Provision A.3.3
No senior non-executive director has been appointed
as both non-executives are deemed to have similarly
appropriate experience for a business of this size.
Code Provision A.6.6
The directors are in the process of introducing an
evaluation process for the Board, its members and
committees; however, no such evaluation took place
during the year.
Code Provision A.7.2
The non-executive directors are appointed on rolling
contracts with three month notice periods as opposed
to a specific term as required by the Code. During
the 2005/2006 year, the Board has agreed to review
this situation.
Code Provision C.3.1
Neither of the members of the audit committee has
recent relevant financial experience under the terms
of the Code. However, both members have had
considerable exposure to financial reporting as
CEO's and non-executives of other businesses. 
As the Group becomes larger, the Board will review 
if a financial specialist may also be required.
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED