 CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 13
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
COMBINED CODE STATEMENT
The directors recognise the importance of adopting
good corporate governance practices in the 
best interests of all shareholders. During the year, 
Caff  Nero Group PLC (the company ) has applied
the principles of good governance set out in 
section 1 of the Combined Code (the Code ) 
in the following ways:
DIRECTORS
The Board
The Board comprises three executive directors 
and two non-executive directors. Their biographies
appear on page 9. A review of these shows a range
of experience and expertise sufficient to bring
independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct
which is vital to the success of the group. Both 
non-executive directors hold shares and share
options (as disclosed on pages 15 to 17) and 
M J Barnes is a non-executive director of Interior
Services Group PLC, where J D King was CEO until
30 June 2006. However because the number of
shares and share options held is small and there 
are no cross directorships between executive and
non-executive directors, the non-executive directors
are considered by the Board to be independent. 
Board meetings
At Board meetings the agenda normally comprises 
a review of the management accounts, a report on
the progress of the store roll out and an update on
the progress of the group's other strategic objectives,
with directors reporting on their areas of responsibility.
The Board meetings in September and January also
cover the approval of the preliminary and interim
financial results respectively and the May meeting
deals with the approval of the annual budget.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for 
the proper management of the group. A statement 
of directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial
statements is set out below. To enable the board to
discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate
and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed
to all directors in advance of board meetings. There
is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board,
these include the determination of strategy, approval
of major corporate acquisitions and budget and
capital expenditure programme approvals. Matters
delegated to the executives include store acquisitions
and disposals. The Board met five times during the
year; all directors attended all meetings held during
their period of office.
The non-executive directors meet regularly without
the executive directors present.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board
for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed
and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. There is an agreed procedure for
directors to take independent professional advice.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Dr Ford is both Chairman and Chief Executive, 
which does not comply with Code Provision A.2.1.
However, the directors consider that this is appropriate
at the company's current stage of development. 
Dr Ford has no other significant commitments 
which constrain his ability to fulfil his role.
Re-election
All directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at least every three years. The company's
Articles of Association require newly appointed
directors to submit themselves for election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. 
J D Hart, who has been appointed since the last
Annual General Meeting, and GW Ford and M J Barnes,
who retire by rotation, will offer themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting (see page 9 for their details). 
Board evaluation
A formal process for Board evaluation has been carried
out during the year. This consisted of the appraisal 
of the Chairman by the independent non-executive
directors, the appraisal of the other executive directors
by the Chairman, and the appraisal of the non
executive directors by the Chairman. In future, should
action be required as a result of the process, the
Chairman would make the necessary arrangements.
Board committee structure
The Board has the following committees for which
terms of reference are available on request:
The Remuneration Committee consists of the
Board's two non-executive directors, John Barnes
(who is Chairman) and David King. They are advised
by the Chief Executive, Gerry Ford. Application of the
Code principles on directors' remuneration may be
seen in the report on remuneration on pages 15 to
17. The Remuneration Committee met twice during
the year with both members in attendance.
The Nomination Committee consists of Gerry Ford
(Chairman), John Barnes and David King. It met once
in reference to the appointment of J D Hart, who was
selected via an external search consultancy exercise.
For J D Hart, the Chairman ensured that a full, formal
and tailored induction programme was put in place.
The Audit Committee consists of the two non-
executive directors. The chairman of the committee
is David King. The committee complies with written
terms of reference, which deal clearly with its
authority and duties. The committee met twice during
the year and both members attended both meetings.
The committee's duties include reviewing the scope
and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and 
the auditor's remuneration, the independence and
objectivity of the auditors and involvement in the
production of annual and interim reports. Other 
non-audit services provided by the auditors consist 
of routine tax compliance work and support with the
conversion to IFRS and are taken into consideration 
as part of the review process. Any additional projects
are required to be approved by the Audit Committee 
as they arise to ensure continued independence and
objectivity. There is in place a whistle blowing  policy
which allows staff to raise any concerns in confidence. 14
CAFF  NERO GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial reporting
The report and financial statements are designed to
present a balanced and understandable assessment
of the company's position and prospects.
Going concern
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6 (R3) we report
that, based on the group's budgets and financial
projections, the directors have satisfied themselves
that the business is a going concern. The Board 
has a reasonable expectation that the group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and therefore 
the financial statements are prepared on the going
concern basis.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for 
the group's systems of internal control and for the
continuing process of reviewing their effectiveness.
During the year and up to the date of approval, the
process accorded with the Turnbull guidance with
particular regard to ensuring that appropriate risk
management processes were in place. The directors
have satisfied themselves that the group complies fully.
Internal control systems are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The directors confirm that 
they have reviewed the effectiveness of the systems
of internal control that have been in operation during
the year. This review entailed the directors considering
the significant risks in the business and the controls
required to minimise those risks. The results of this
review have been documented and will be reviewed
and updated on a regular basis. The group has an
internal branch audit function. During the year, the
Board reviewed whether there was a need to extend
this function and concluded that it was desirable to
continue with the current arrangements.
Internal control: financial
The internal control process has been reviewed 
and its main features are:
  Financial Reporting: there is a comprehensive
budgeting system with an annual budget approved
by the Board. Monthly trading results are reported
against the corresponding figures for the budget
and previous year.
  Capital Expenditure: there is a comprehensive
budgeting system for capital expenditure with an
annual budget approved by the Board. A
committee comprising Gerry Ford, Ben Price,
Jonathan Hart and other senior management has
been set up to appraise and authorise individual
material items of capital expenditure.
  Cashflow: an annual cashflow forecast is drawn up
and approved by the Board and actual cashflow is
reviewed monthly against this forecast.
  Organisational Structure: a clear organisational
structure with defined responsibilities and clear
authority levels has been set.
Branch Audit: a Branch Audit function exists to
ensure that group procedures regarding cash and
stock handling are being adhered to in the caf s.
Internal control: risk management
During the year, the group had in place formalised
procedures to identify, evaluate and manage
significant risks and to enable management to
assess and regularly report to the board on issues
relating to business, operational, financial and 
non-compliance risks.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board is always willing to meet with its
institutional shareholders and has a programme 
of such meetings over the year. The Board believes 
it is most appropriate for the Chairman and Finance
Director to hold these meetings. The Code
recommends that the non-executive directors should
maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders 
to understand their issues and concerns. Although
neither of the non-executive directors have had direct
contact with shareholders during the year, feedback
from analysts and shareholders is given to them
through analyst response packs and they are willing
to be contacted by shareholders should they have
any concerns that cannot be resolved through the
normal channels.
Compliance
The Board believes that during the year that the
company complied with the provisions set out in 
the Code with the following exceptions:
Code Provision A.1.5
Directors' and officers' liability insurance was
introduced during the year but not in place for the 
full year. 
Code Provision A.2.1 
Dr Ford is both Chairman and Chief Executive,
however, the directors consider that this is
appropriate at the company's current stage 
of development.
Code Provision A.3.3
No senior non-executive director has been appointed
as both non-executives are deemed to have similarly
appropriate experience for a business of this size.
Code Provision A.7.2
The non-executive directors were appointed on
rolling contracts with three month notice periods as
opposed to a specific term as required by the Code.
Code Provision C.3.1
Neither of the members of the audit committee has
recent relevant financial experience under the terms
of the Code. However, both members have had
considerable exposure to financial reporting as
CEO's and non-executives of other businesses. 
As the company becomes larger, the board will
review if a financial specialist may also be required.
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED