 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 47
The remits and membership of all Board Committees is given in the text which follows
in the tables below:
Committee name Chairman 
Audit Committee  ke Stavling,
Senior Independent Director 
Remuneration Committee Peter Ringrose,
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Nominations Committee Paul Nicholson,
Chairman of the Board 
Scientific Advisory Board Peter Ringrose,
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Scientific
Audit Remuneration Nominations Advisory
Name Independent Committee Committee Committee Board 
Paul Nicholson     Chairman  
 ke Stavling
(ii)
  Chairman     
Peter Ringrose    Chairman
(iii)
  Chairman 
Uwe Bicker
(v)
       
Aaron Klug
(iv)
      
John Stocker
(i)
       
Christopher Marshall       
John Brown    
(iii)
  
Peter Chambr        
(i) The Board has determined that notwithstanding the period of time during which John Stocker has served 
as a Director he is independent.
(ii)  ke Stavling is the Senior Independent Director.
(iii) Peter Ringrose will step down as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee with effect 
from the Annual General Meeting in February 2006. John Brown will be appointed as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee with effect from the Annual General Meeting in February 2006.
(iv) Aaron Klug will stand down from the Board with effect from the Annual General Meeting in February 2006.
(v) Uwe Bicker will stand down from the Board and the Audit Committee with effect from the Annual 
General Meeting in February 2006.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The terms of references for each of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees are available from CAT's
website at www.cambridgeantibody.com
and can also be obtained by request from
the Company Secretary.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
This has been a busy year for 
the Committee.The focus of the
Committee's activities continued to
be scrutiny of the Group's financial
results, monitoring and evaluating
of the framework of internal
controls and the implementation of
a Sarbanes Oxley s.404 compliance
programme, but this year also
included an assessment of the
impact of International Accounting
Standards and oversight of a new
accounting and procurement system
which it is hoped will be launched
in December 2005. 
 ke Stavling 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee currently consists
of four independent Non-Executive
Directors,  ke Stavling (Chairman),
Uwe Bicker, John Stocker and John Brown.
Under its terms of reference, all Directors
are entitled to attend any meetings of the
Committee.The Committee meets as
appropriate (but not less than four times
a year) to (amongst other things):
  Approve the appointment of external
auditors and monitor the relationship
with them including the nature and scope
of the audit and any matters arising. 48 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  Review the Annual Report, the Interim
Report and quarterly financial
statements before submission to 
the Board, including consideration 
of the accounting policies adopted 
and any significant areas of judgment.
  Recommend to the Board whether
audited financial statements should 
be included in the Company's statutory
reports and Annual Report filed with
the Securities Exchange Commission 
on Form 20-F.
  Monitor compliance with statutory,
Financial Services Authority and
Securities Exchange Commission
requirements for financial reporting.
  Review disclosures made by the
Company's principal executive officer 
or officers and principal financial officer
or officers regarding compliance with
their certification obligations as required
under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and the rules promulgated thereunder,
including the Company's disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls for financial reporting.
  Monitor the system of internal control
maintained by the Group to safeguard
shareholders' investments and the
Group's assets.
  Approve and monitor a code of ethics
applicable to senior management and 
a  whistleblowing' policy designed to
enable the anonymous reporting by staff
of any suspected financial impropriety,
fraud or wrongdoing.
The Committee has the power to call 
for information from management and 
to consult directly with the external
auditors or other advisors as it 
considers appropriate.
During the year, the Audit Committee
met eight times. All members of the 
Audit Committee were present for 
these meetings either in person or 
by telephone.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed
by the Board on the recommendation 
of the Nominations Committee on 
an annual basis and in determining
membership consideration is given to 
the range of knowledge and experience
of each member, any specific legal or
regulatory requirements relating to the
determination of  financial expertise'
and in particular the facility of each
member with accounting principles 
and financial matters.
The Board has determined that 
 ke Stavling is the Committee's financial
expert.This was in part because of the
financial and management experience 
he is able to offer to the Audit
Committee; such experience has included
senior financial positions at Astra AB
where he was Chief Financial Officer 
and at AstraZeneca plc where he was
Director, Business Development.The Board
continues to believe that  ke has a strong
track record as Chairman of the Committee
and has been able to offer pertinent
insights which have contributed to the
effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
In addition to the standing members of
the Audit Committee and representatives
from the external auditors, John Aston,
Chief Financial Officer, Lizzie Dant,Vice
President of Finance and Rowena Gardner,
Director of Corporate Communications
and Chairman of the Disclosure
Committee, routinely attend and are
invited to give presentations at meetings
of the Audit Committee. Justin Hoskins,
Company Secretary, served as Secretary
to the Committee during the year. Also
during the year representatives from 
Ernst & Young LLP gave a presentation 
to the Audit Committee and other
members of the Board.
During the year the Audit Committee
reviewed the quarterly financial
statements of the Group, any significant
areas of judgement in relation to the
application of accounting treatments,
the impact of international accounting
standards, the work of the Business 
Risk Management Group (BRMG),
the work of the Policy Group and the
progress which is being made on the
implementation of a Sarbanes Oxley
section 404 compliance programme.
The Audit Committee also considered 
the need for an internal audit function. CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 49
Management accounts and reports on
treasury performance were made available
to the Audit Committee. Going forward,
the Audit Committee will continue to
consider these matters and in particular
will continue to focus on the likely impact
of legislative, accounting and best practice
developments as they evolve in order 
that the Group can remain abreast 
of such developments and plan its
resources accordingly.
Under its terms of reference, provision 
is made for the Audit Committee to meet
at least once a year with the external
auditors in the absence of the Group's
executive management. In practice
however, the Audit Committee meets
with the auditors in the absence of
management at all meetings at which 
the Group's financial statements are 
being considered.
In order to safeguard auditor independence
and objectivity, the Audit Committee has
established a policy of separating the
provision of audit and assurance services 
(primarily audit, reporting accountant 
and attestation work) from non-assurance
services (such as taxation and consulting
work).The auditors may not be appointed
to carry out any non-assurance services.
This policy has been complied with
throughout the year. A copy of this policy
can be obtained on request from the
Company Secretary. Decisions relating 
to the provision of assurance services,
such as acting as a reporting accountant
for the purposes of a class transaction, will
be considered on a case by case basis by
the Audit Committee and account will be
taken of both the need for independence
and the ability to provide services in a
cost efficient and timely manner.
To assist the Audit Committee in the
fulfilment of its role in evaluating the
framework of internal controls, the
BRMG, comprising senior managers 
from across the organisation, has been
established which reports to both the
Audit Committee and to the Executive
Group.The BRMG has developed an
approach to the assessment of risk 
which aligns with the Group's operating
cycle.This is detailed in the diagram
below. The BRMG has the dual function 
of reporting on the effectiveness of the
current system of internal controls as 
well as identifying areas where this
process requires further refinement.
A Sarbanes Oxley Disclosure Committee
has also been established which reports
to the Audit Committee on the adequacy
of the Group's disclosure controls prior 
to the filing of the Annual Report on
Form 20-F and the furnishing of quarterly
financial statements on forms 6-K with 
the Securities Exchange Commission.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
AUDIT COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT 
OF PROCESS
BRMG AND EG
 REPORT TO AUDIT COMMITTEE 
ON RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
EXECUTIVE GROUP (EG)
 REFINEMENT OF RISK CONTROLS 
AND, WHERE NECESSARY, 
SETTING OF OPERATIONAL 
GOALS AND BUDGETS TO 
MANAGE IDENTIFIED RISKS
BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT 
GROUP (BRMG)
 CATALOGUE AND CLASSIFY RISKS
 ASSESS EFFECTIVENESS OF 
CURRENT CONTROLS
FINANCIAL YEAR
REPORT ON ANY INADEQUATE MANAGEMENT OF RISKS 