 2012 has proved a challenging year. The steps the 
Company has taken, however, to improve its risk 
and control processes should give stakeholders 
confidence that management remains sound 
and the Company is a well-run business that is well 
positioned to deliver future shareholder value.
Membership and process
The Committee shall comprise at least three members. 
All members shall be independent Non executive Directors, 
at least one of whom shall have recent and relevant 
financial experience.
The following were members of the Audit Committee of 
the Company from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 
except where indicated:
Committee membership
Michael Merton (Chairman)
Brendan Connolly
1
Stepped down 29 March 
2012 and re-appointed on  
29 June 2012
David McManus Stepped down  
22 August 2012
Leslie Van de Walle Appointed 22 August 2012
1  Brendan Connolly stepped down from the Committee on 29 March 2012 
following his appointment as Acting Chief Executive in place of Martin May, 
who stepped down as a Director on that date. Brendan Connolly was 
re-appointed to the Committee when he stepped down as Acting 
Chief Executive on the appointment of Joe Oatley as Chief Executive 
on 29 June 2012.
Michael Merton has recent and relevant financial experience 
and his biography is set out on page 43 of this Report.
Attendance at meetings
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the internal and external independent 
auditors (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC)) are normally 
invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend 
meetings of the Committee. The Committee has access to 
the services of the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Audit 
Director (Internal), the Company Secretary and access to 
external professional advice to assist it in the performance 
of its duties.
The Committee met on six occasions in 2012, and the 
members' attendance record is set out on page 49. 
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committee's 
findings to the Board meeting following the Committee 
meeting and the minutes of each Committee meeting 
are circulated to all members of the Board.
Cape plc Annual Report 2012
56
Governance
Audit Committee Report
Responsibilities
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight 
responsibilities. Its primary functions are:
 - Financial Reporting
 - Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements 
and other information provided to shareholders
 - Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and 
judgements contained in the financial statements
 - Internal Control and Risk Management Systems
 - Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Company's internal financial controls and internal 
control and risk management systems
 - Reviewing the Company's procedures for 
handling allegations from whistleblowers
 - Internal Audit
 - Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Company's internal audit function, review the internal 
audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and 
monitor management's responses to the findings 
and recommendations of the internal audit function
 - External Independent Auditors
 - Considering and making recommendations to the 
Board, to be put to shareholders for approval at the 
AGM in relation to the appointment, reappointment 
and removal of the external independent auditors
 - Overseeing the relationship with the external 
independent auditors including approving its fee for 
audit services and its terms of engagement, assessing 
annually the effectiveness of the audit process and the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor 
taking into account the provision of any non-audit 
services
 - Meeting regularly with the external independent auditors, 
including at least once a year, without management 
being present, to discuss its remit and any issues arising 
from the audit
 - Reviewing and approving the annual external audit 
plan and reviewing the findings of the audit from the 
external independent auditors
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed 
annually by the Committee and then by the Board. The 
terms of reference are available on the Group's website at: 
www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility/corporate-
governance/board-committees.aspx 
Annual Work Plan
The Committee works to an agreed annual work plan which 
covers all areas required to be attended to under its Terms 
of Reference. The main features during the period were: 
 - At meetings in February and March 2012, the Committee 
reviewed the Group's Preliminary results announcement 
and Annual Report, and in August 2012, the Half Year 
results announcement and Half Year report respectively. 
On all occasions, the Committee satisfied itself of the 
independence and objectivity of the external Independent 
auditors and received reports from management and the 
external Independent Auditors identifying accounting or 
judgemental issues requiring its attention;
Michael Merton
Chairman, Audit Committee Cape plc Annual Report 2012
57
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements
 - At each meeting the Committee received reports from  
the internal audit function and monitored the progress  
of their programme for the year;
 - In February and August 2012 the Committee met external 
Independent Auditors in the absence of management to 
provide external Independent Auditors with the opportunity 
to draw any matters to the attention of the Committee 
which were causing them specific concern. No matters 
of concern were drawn to the Committee's attention at 
any of these meetings;
 - In January 2012 the Committee completed its assessment 
of its own efficiency and effectiveness;
 - In February 2012, the Committee undertook a detailed 
review of the management letter covering the external 
Independent Auditors' findings in respect of the prior 
financial year and also reviewed the external Independent 
auditors' effectiveness, objectivity, independence and 
qualifications and made a recommendation as to the 
appointment of the external Independent Auditors for the 
forthcoming year. It also reviewed the completed internal 
control questionnaires;
 - At all meetings reviewed the Risk Register and reviewed 
reports on the Group's risk management process and 
any actions arising;
 - Throughout the year oversaw the implementation of the 
Group Anti-Bribery Policy and recommended and 
monitored changes both to the Policy, associated policies 
such as charitable donations and Whistleblowing Policy;
 - Had oversight of a whistleblowing allegation and 
subsequent investigation; and
 - In November 2012 the Committee reviewed and 
approved the audit plans for the internal audit team and 
external auditors and the Committee's Terms of Reference. 
It also undertook a risk management review, a review of 
the effectiveness of the finance function and the process 
for confirming the effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls.
Independence of the external Auditors
The Committee annually reviews the quality and cost 
effectiveness of the external audit and the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors. This includes:
 - Seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their 
professional judgement, independent of the Group and 
obtaining from them an account of all relationships which 
may affect the firm's independence and the objectivity  
of the audit partner and staff. PwC have confirmed  
to the Committee that they remain independent and 
maintain internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity;
 - Adopting a policy governing the engagement of the 
auditors to conduct non-audit work. The policy currently 
adopted requires prior approval of the Audit Committee 
for non-audit work above a threshold level of  50,000; and 
 - Requiring the external auditor to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years. The 
current audit partner, Steve Wootten, has been in place 
for three years.
In addition to the audit related services, PwC provided tax 
compliance and advisory services during the year.
Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out in Note 10 
 Auditors' remuneration' to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group's 
choice of external auditor. The Committee is content that 
the external auditors remain independent.
Recommendation of external Independent Auditors
PwC has acted as auditors to the Cape group of 
companies for many years. The Audit Committee makes 
a recommendation as to whether the external audit should 
be opened to tender, on the results of the independence, 
performance and objectivity review described above.
Having reviewed the performance of the external 
Independent Auditors during the year and having 
satisfied itself of their continuing independence and 
objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory 
requirements and professional standards, the Committee 
has invited the Board to recommend the reappointment 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external Independent 
auditors at the forthcoming AGM and a resolution to  
that effect appears in the notice of the AGM.
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of 
management, maintains regular and direct contact 
with both the internal and external auditor.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 
8 April 2013.
Michael Merton
Chairman, Audit Committee 
8 April 2013