 19
Statement of Corporate Governance
Combined Code
The Committee on Corporate Governance issued the Combined Code in June 1998. The London Stock Exchange introduced a new
Listing Rule which requires all UK listed companies to make a disclosure statement relating to the Combined Code in two parts.
 a statement of how the company has applied the principles set out in Part 1 of the Combined Code relating to listed companies;
this has been covered in the sections below which follow the headings in the Combined Code - Directors and directors'
remuneration, Relations with shareholders and Accountability and audit;
 a statement as to whether or not the company has complied with the detailed code provisions set out in Part 2 of the Combined
Code relating to listed companies; this is dealt with below under Compliance with the Combined Code provisions.
Directors and directors' remuneration
The board comprises the independent non executive chairman, the chief executive, the executive finance director and three other
independent non executive directors. The biographies of the directors appear on page 17. The roles of chairman and chief executive are
held by separate directors with a clear division of responsibilities between them. All directors have access to the advice and services of
the secretary, Eric Cook, who is responsible to the board for ensuring the proper conduct of board procedures and compliance with
appropriate regulations. The appointment and removal of the secretary is a matter for the board as a whole. The board meets regularly
(at least ten times each year) and there is contact between meetings to progress the company's business. The board has a formal
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision (including the development of corporate strategy and the approval of annual
budgets, major capital expenditure and potential acquisitions). The chairman together with the chief executive establish the agenda for
each board meeting. Briefing papers are distributed by the secretary to all directors in advance of board meetings. The directors are
authorised to obtain independent advice as required. The following committees continue to deal with specific group matters.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprises the non  executive directors. The committee is chaired by the group chairman and is responsible
for proposing candidates for appointment to the board, having regard to the balance and structure of the board. The nomination
committee is assisted by recruitment consultants as appropriate and meets candidates short listed for appointment before
recommending an appointment to the board.
Remuneration committee
As required by the Combined Code and the Companies Act 1985 the company has established a remuneration committee consisting
entirely of independent non executive directors. The remuneration committee comprises all the non executive directors and is chaired by
Adam Broadbent. The committee recommends to the full board the company's policy on executive director and executive management
remuneration and continues to determine individual remuneration packages for executive directors. The remuneration committee is
authorised by the board to obtain independent professional advice if it considers this necessary. The directors' remuneration report on
pages 21 to 24 sets out the group's remuneration objectives and policy and includes full details of directors' remuneration in accordance
with the provision of Schedule B to the Combined Code.
Audit committee
The audit committee, which is chaired by Barbara Richmond, comprises all the non executive directors and meets not less than three
times annually. The committee provides a forum for reporting by the group's external and internal auditors. Meetings are also attended,
by invitation, by the chief executive and finance director.
The audit committee has terms of reference which follow closely the recommendations of the Combined Code and include reviewing the
scope and results of the audit and the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors. The committee reviews half year
and annual accounts before their submission to the board and reviews reports from the internal auditor and computer department.
Group management committee
The group management committee is chaired by the chief executive and comprises all the executive directors together with the
secretary and the chief executive of the specialist wire division. The committee meets at least once each month and is responsible to the
board for running the ongoing operations of the group's businesses.
Relations with shareholders
Regular meetings are held between directors of the company and major institutional shareholders including presentations after the
company's preliminary announcements of the half year and full year results.
The board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting on 4 September 2003 can be found in the notice of meeting on
page 52. 20
Statement of Corporate Governance
continued
Accountability and audit
Directors' responsibilities
As required by company law, the directors have prepared accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the company and of the group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year then ended.
In preparing these accounts, which have been produced on a going concern basis, the directors have adopted suitable accounting
policies and applied them consistently, made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, and have complied with all
applicable accounting standards.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
In addition, they are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
Internal control
The board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code  (the Turnbull Report). These procedures provide for a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the material business risks faced by the group. This process has been in place throughout the year under review and up
to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts. The process has been reviewed by the board and is in accordance with the
guidance given in the Turnbull Report.
For the year ended 31 March 2003, the board has reviewed the effectiveness of the group's system of internal control, for which it
retains overall responsibility. Responsibility for operating the system is delegated to the group management committee. The audit
committee reviews the effectiveness of the group's internal control system, the scope of work undertaken by the internal audit
department and its findings, the group's accounts and the scope of work undertaken by the external auditors. Reviews are undertaken
regularly and cover each accounting year and the period up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the group's system is
designed to provide reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately. The principal
features of the group's internal control structures can be summarised as follows:
a) Matters reserved for the board
The board holds regular meetings and has a number of matters reserved for its approval, including major capital expenditure, treasury
and dividend policy. The board is responsible for overall group strategy and for approving all group budgets and plans. Certain key areas
are subject to regular reporting to the board including treasury operations, capital expenditure, corporate taxation and legal matters. The
audit committee assists the board in its duties regarding the group's financial statements and liaises with the external auditors.
b) Organisational structure
There is a clearly defined organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive
management. Divisional responsibility is supplemented by a group finance manual  which dictates policies and practices applicable
across the group and includes accounting, purchasing, capital expenditure and codes of business conduct. These are reviewed by the
internal auditor and are reported to the audit committee. This process forms part of the audit committee's review of the effectiveness of
the group's system of internal control.
c) Financial control and reporting 
There is a comprehensive group wide system of planning and budgeting with frequent reporting of results to each level of management
as appropriate, including monthly reporting to the board. Reviews involving executive directors and divisional executives include the
annual identification and assessment of business and financial risks inherent in each division.   
d) Internal auditor
The internal auditor monitors and reports on the system of internal control. He reports to the audit committee and works to an agreed
programme.
Compliance with the Combined Code provisions
The board confirms that the company has complied throughout the accounting period with the detailed provisions of the Combined
Code except that it is not thought necessary to nominate a senior independent non executive director given the independence of the
chairman and the calibre and experience of the non executive directors. Shareholders are welcome to convey any governance concerns
to any of the directors at any time.