 14
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report continued 
Risk management 
Our approach to risk management 
Carpetright recognises that effective business management requires 
regular review of business risks to identify, evaluate and prioritise 
them, to assign management ownership and to ensure appropriate 
controls are in place to provide mitigation.  We have established a 
flexible and practical framework, sponsored by senior executives, 
which aims to identify and manage the principal risks that may 
prevent us from achieving the Group's strategic objectives. 
The Board and Audit Committee 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's risk appetite, 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
In order to fulfil this responsibility, the Directors have established  
an organisational framework with clear operational procedures,  
lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated 
throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval  
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and 
manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the 
Group's objectives.  Because of the limitations inherent in any 
system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the 
Group's particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed  
rather than eliminate risk altogether.  Consequently, it can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Audit Committee assists the Board through its work covering 
the Group's system of internal controls, the assessment of risks  
and related compliance activities.  This includes the Committee's 
oversight of the Group's Internal Audit Department, which: 
 undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, 
based on a risk assessment model; 
 provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective 
assurance on the control environment across the Group; and 
 monitors adherence to the Group's key policies and principles. 
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and 
makes recommendations and escalates significant risks or issues  
to the Board as appropriate.  Its role is described in more detail 
on pages 23 to 26. 
The Board has reviewed the Group's systems of internal control 
including financial, operational and compliance controls as  
well as risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the 
guidance on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised 
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. 
Identification of business risks 
An Executive Risk Committee ( ERC') comprising the Executive 
Directors and senior managers exists to review key risk and control 
issues.  The ERC met quarterly during the year reported.  The 
Group's principal risks are individually sponsored by a member  
of the ERC. 
The ERC identifies and assesses risks to the Group's medium-term 
strategy.  The ERC directs the risk management processes within 
both the UK and the Rest of Europe to address each of the identified 
risks, formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely impact of 
such risk occurring.  The Group Finance Director provides regular 
reports to the Audit Committee in relation to its work. 
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set 
out on pages 15 and 16. 
Oversight and assurance 
Our Group Finance department is responsible for the 
financial policies and standards adopted within the Group. 
It also manages our financial reporting processes to ensure the 
timely and accurate provision of information which enables the 
Board to discharge its responsibilities.  
Our Company Secretary and Legal Director is responsible for 
maintaining and developing the Group's framework of governance, 
including our anti-bribery policy and whistleblowing process, 
alongside ensuring that any changes to the Group's legal  
obligations are brought to the attention of the relevant teams  
who are responsible for the implementation of any changes. 
The Internal Audit department provides independent assessment  
on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes  
of risk management and control across the Group.  It achieves this 
through undertaking reviews which are approved by and reported  
to the Audit Committee.  The Group also uses the services of 
independent third party advisers and consultants to review 
controls and processes where the nature of the review requires 
expertise not available in-house. 
   www.carpetright.plc.uk
15
Strategic report Directors' report Financial statements Shareholder information
 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
We are subject to the same general risks as many other businesses; 
for example, changes in general economic conditions, currency 
and interest rate fluctuations, changes in taxation legislation, 
cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, the cost 
of our raw materials, the impact of competition, political instability 
and the impact of natural disasters. 
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe to be the 
most material to our business model, which could adversely affect 
the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or assets of the Group and 
which may prevent us from achieving the Group's strategic 
objectives.  Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown 
to us, or which we currently believe are immaterial, may also have 
an adverse effect on the Group.  
We use our risk management process as described on page 14 to 
identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such issues as they emerge, 
enabling management to take appropriate action wherever possible 
in order to control them and also enabling the Board to keep risk 
management under review. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Risk description Mitigation& controls
Strategic 
 Customer proposition & changing customer preferences
A failure to respond to changing customer expectations and 
preferences, across our in-store and online propositions, 
could lead to a failure to deliver our business objectives. 
 
 
We continue to invest in both our existing estate and online 
platforms to ensure we remain relevant and contemporary. 
We actively engage with our customer base utilising a wide range  
of methods including customer satisfaction surveys and mystery 
shopping and employ this feedback to improve our products  
and services. 
 Property portfolio 
The Group operates from a substantial property portfolio 
with a large geographical spread across four Northern 
European countries.  There is a risk associated with changing 
property values and long-term commitments reduce 
flexibility to adjust our property portfolio.  Managing the 
location planning and cost base associated with this 
infrastructure represents a key risk to both profit and 
long-term cash flow. 
There are regular meetings of appropriate executives to review 
property decisions set against a framework of delegated authority 
from the Board.  The Group has also invested in a detailed location 
planning model which aids our understanding of store catchments 
and customer demographics.  This model supports our store 
opening and re-location plans, allowing us to assess the impact of 
portfolio movements before committing to change.  We also consult 
external advisers, where appropriate, to provide expert advice and 
inform decision making. 
 Marketing strategy and pricing 
We recognise that if our products are, or are perceived to 
be, of poor value for money, or that our marketing channels 
and promotions fail to engage with our target audience, we 
risk losing sales. 
 
Throughout the year we monitor the effectiveness of our pricing, 
promotional and marketing strategies across our businesses, 
tailoring our consumer offering where appropriate. 
 Reputation and product
The Carpetright name is a key asset of the business and as 
the largest operator in its markets, expectations of the Group 
are high.  Failure to provide high quality products and 
services could lead to a loss of trust and confidence, and 
damage the Group's reputation and brand.  This could 
result in a decline in the customer base and affect our ability 
to recruit good people. 
The Group works closely with its suppliers to ensure the products it 
sells are of the highest quality and meet the organisation's required 
ethical and safety standards.  We ensure our flooring customers 
receive a first class fitting experience by having the work of our  
third party contractors independently assessed, ensuring they are 
fully insured and have been checked for criminal records.  The 
performance of our bed delivery partner is continuously monitored, 
with improvements made as necessary.  We regularly engage with 
our customers and where their feedback, either via social media or 
more traditional channels, suggests that their experience has not  
met expectation, we strive to resolve their issue promptly.  16
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report continued 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued 
 
 
 
 Risk description Mitigation& controls
  People 
The Group relies upon attracting and retaining talented and 
appropriately qualified people in order to deliver its long-term 
objectives.  An inability to maintain an adequate pool of suitable 
resource could disrupt business operations and potentially 
undermine the Group's ability to deliver sustainable growth. 
 
We aim to recruit, train and develop a suitably skilled and 
qualified team of people to meet the current and future 
operational needs of the Group.  We are also committed to 
creating opportunities for individuals to progress their careers. 
Operational 
 IT performance and security 
Carpetright is dependent on the reliability and capability of key 
information systems and technology.  A major incident or 
sustained performance problems with regard to store, logistics, 
multi-channel or support office systems could constitute a 
significant threat to the business and reputation, at least in the 
short term. 
The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the 
integrity of our systems and to ensure that systems changes are 
implemented in a controlled manner.  The business has 
developed and tested continuity plans and has separate disaster 
recovery facilities to mitigate significant risks and Group systems 
are mirrored in a separate location.  The systems are regularly 
tested to provide assurance as to their security. 
  Risk description Mitigation& controls
Financial 
 Cash management 
The Group risks exposure to exchange rate, interest rate, 
liquidity and credit risks having an adverse or unexpected 
impact on results, funding requirements or purchasing ability. 
The Group frequently reviews its financial position to ensure  
that its funding requirements are being met.  Bank covenant  
tests are regularly monitored.  Rolling cash flow forecasts are 
produced weekly. 