 Chairman's introduction
We have a reputation for our 
entrepreneurial management style 
and it is essential that we have the 
necessary controls and procedures in 
place to steer this entrepreneurial drive 
and ambition. The Board of directors is 
ultimately responsible for the strategic 
direction, management and control of the 
Group's activities. The Board recognises 
the importance of achieving high standards 
of corporate governance, to help facilitate 
the success of the business.
Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman
Since 28 October 2013 the Company has held a premium listing 
on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, and as such 
is required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code) published by the UK Financial Reporting Council. The Board 
is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and 
in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority 
(Listing Rules) the Board confirms that, except to the extent stated 
below, the Company has throughout the year and as at the date of 
this annual report complied with the provisions set out in the Code. 
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the relevant parts of this Report 
have been reviewed by the Company's auditors and their opinion 
is contained in the Independent auditors' report on pages 57 to 59.
PROPOSED MERGER WITH DIXONS RETAIL PLC
The Prospectus and Circular, which will be sent to our shareholders 
in respect of the Merger with Dixons Retail plc, set out the proposed 
changes to the Board of directors and to the Board Committees 
should the Merger complete. Other governance matters will also be 
changed accordingly. All such changes will be set out in next year's 
annual report if the Merger completes and therefore this Corporate 
Governance Report should be considered by shareholders in this regard.
INDEPENDENCE AND COMPLIANCE
The Board has eight members, four of whom, excluding the Chairman, 
are considered to be independent non-executive directors. These 
directors are John Gildersleeve, John Allwood, Baroness Morgan 
of Huyton and Gerry Murphy. Therefore more than half of the directors 
excluding the Chairman are considered to be independent. Although 
John Gildersleeve was a non-executive director of Old Carphone 
Warehouse for more than nine years, the Board does not believe 
this affects his independence given that he satisfies all of the other 
tests of independence set out in the Corporate Governance Code 
and that Carphone is a company completely separate from 
Old Carphone.
Executive directors and the Chairman have service contracts 
that can be terminated by either the Company or the director 
on 12 months' notice.
The non-executive directors have three-year periods of appointment, 
the terms of which are substantially in the same format as suggested 
by the Code, with three month notice periods and no compensation for 
loss of office. Further details on each director's remuneration and notice 
period are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 51. 
Each of the directors will stand for re-appointment at the Company's 
annual general meeting.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The overriding responsibility of the Board is to provide 
clear, entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the 
Group within a framework of efficient and effective controls 
so as to allow the key issues and risks facing the 
business to be assessed and managed.
Specifically the Board:
 + determines the overall strategic direction 
for the Group;
 + manages the Group's investments, including 
reviewing their performance;
 + reviews and challenges management performance;
 + ensures that the necessary operational, financial 
and human resources are in place to enable the 
Group to meet its objectives;
 + develops an understanding of the views of major 
shareholders about the Group; and
 + communicates with shareholders in conjunction with 
its dedicated internal investor relations department.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
SIR CHARLES DUNSTONE (CHAIRMAN)
ROGER TAYLOR (DEPUTY CHAIRMAN)
ANDREW HARRISON (CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
NIGEL LANGSTAFF (CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER)
INDEPENDENT NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
JOHN GILDERSLEEVE
JOHN ALLWOOD
BARONESS MORGAN OF HUYTON
GERRY MURPHY (FROM 2 APRIL 2014)
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 34
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MEETINGS
The Board had ten formal meetings during the year as well as other 
meetings as were appropriate for approving certain announcements 
to shareholders and other matters from time to time. All directors 
attended each meeting with the exception of John Gildersleeve, who 
was absent from the Board call on 20 January 2014 to approve the 
Q3 trading statement, due to a prior commitment.
EXPERIENCE
The wide range of experience and expertise of the non-executive 
directors, combined with the skills of the executive directors, provides 
vast retailing, mobile industry and general business experience, strong 
personal skills and independence of thought and perspective.
John Allwood is the Senior Independent Director and non-executive 
director with relevant financial experience.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
There are three key Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination. The Committees are provided with sufficient resources 
via the Company Secretary and, where necessary, have direct access 
to independent professional advisers to undertake their duties.
Baroness
John Morgan of John Gerry
Gildersleeve Huyton Allwood Murphy
Audit p38
Remuneration p37
Nomination p36 n/a n/a
Chair Member
The Consumer Regulatory and Compliance Committee was instituted 
during the year, to monitor and control the Group's compliance in 
respect of regulation affecting its customers, primarily in relation 
to its insurance business and data protection. The chair of the 
Committee is Baroness Morgan of Huyton and one meeting was 
held during the year.
RESERVED MATTERS
There are documented schedules of matters reserved to the Board 
and matters delegated to Committees of the Board. Such reserved 
matters include: 
 + approval of published financial statements;
 + declaration of interim and final dividends;
 + approval of budget and strategy;
 + appointment and remuneration of directors and auditors;
 + approval of major acquisitions and disposals; 
 + approval of authority levels for expenditure; and
 + approval of treasury and risk management policies.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Board supports executive directors taking up non-executive 
directorships as part of their continuing development, and the Board 
believes that this will ultimately benefit the Company. Further details 
are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
BOARD GOVERNANCE MATTERS
All Board papers are sent out on a timely basis with sufficient 
information for the directors to be able to discharge their duties. 
The Company Secretary ensures that all Board papers are sent to 
non-attending directors and that, where possible, any comments 
they have are received beforehand so that they can be expressed 
at the meeting.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The internal annual review of the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of the directors was conducted as usual during the course 
of the year. In addition, the Code recommends that the performance 
of the Board be reviewed externally every three years. The first external 
review of the Company was carried out by NJMD Corporate Services 
in May 2013; therefore the next external evaluation is due in 2016.
Internally, using the Higgs Report  Suggestions for Good Practice' 
as guidance, the individual directors completed separate questionnaires 
and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Board as a whole then collated and analysed the results. 
The areas covered included the roles of the executive and non-executive 
directors, the Board, Board Committees, the Chairman, preparation 
for and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of each director, 
leadership, culture and corporate governance. The results were 
then considered by the Board as a specific item of business.
The Chairman meets regularly with all the non-executive directors, 
usually on an evening prior to a Board meeting. This provides the 
opportunity to raise any questions regarding the performance of 
the executive directors or in respect of any other matters.
Following the results of the internal evaluation, the Chairman 
confirms that all directors continue to be effective and demonstrate 
a commitment to the role, including having time to attend all 
necessary meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
The Senior Independent Director also met with the non-executive 
directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairman's 
effectiveness, having first reviewed the results of a performance 
evaluation questionnaire completed by all of the directors apart 
from the Chairman. The Board is of the opinion that the Chairman 
had no other significant commitments during the year that affected 
his performance in his role.
COMMUNICATION WITH INVESTORS
The Board believes that it is important to explain business developments 
and financial results to the Company's shareholders and to understand 
shareholder concerns. The principal communication media used to 
impart information to shareholders are news releases (including results 
announcements), investor presentations and Company publications.
The Chief Executive Officer has lead responsibility for investor 
relations. He is supported by a dedicated investor relations department 
that, amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and 
institutional investors. There is a full programme of regular dialogue 
with major institutional shareholders and potential shareholders as 
well as sell-side analysts. In all such dialogue, care is taken to ensure 
that no price sensitive information is released. The Chairman ensures 
that the Board receives regular shareholder updates at Board meetings. 
The Board also receives periodic reports on investors' views of the 
performance of the Company. The Chairman and all the non-executive 
directors, in particular the Senior Independent Director, are available 
to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are required.
The Company also communicates with shareholders through the 
annual general meeting, at which the Chairman gives an account 
of the progress of the business over the last year, a review of current 
issues, and provides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
Further financial and business information is available on the 
Group's website, www.cpwplc.com.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 35
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE