 13
Carr's Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
The Company remains committed to high standards of corporate
governance. All listed companies are obliged to report on how they
apply the Principles of Good Governance set out in the Combined
Code issued in June 1998 and whether they complied with the
Code's Provisions throughout the accounting period. The Board
complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in the
Combined Code issued in June 1998 apart from those relating to
the following:
  a senior independent non-executive director was appointed
after the year end on 1 September 2004;
  one of the two non-executive directors is not independent,
however a third non-executive director was appointed on 
1 September 2004;
  bonuses and benefits in kind paid to executive directors 
are pensionable;
  the directors' contract periods are two years;
  there are no specific provisions for compensation on 
early termination;
  the Remuneration Committee comprised both non-executive
directors, albeit one director is not independent, however a third
non-executive director was appointed on 1 September 2004; and
  the Audit Committee comprised the two non-executive
directors instead of at least three non-executive directors, a
majority of whom should be independent, however a third 
non-executive director was appointed on 1 September 2004.
These matters are discussed further in the relevant paragraphs
below and in the Remuneration Report.
Board structure and committees
The Board at 28 August 2004 comprised two executive directors
(including the Group Chief Executive) and two non-executive
directors (including the Chairman), who bring a range of skills and
experience to the Board. Biographical details of all current directors
are set out on page 10. The Audit Committee and Remuneration
Committee both have written terms of reference.
Directors
The directors supervise the management of the business and the
affairs of the company and see their prime responsibility as being 
to determine the broad strategy of the company and to ensure its
implementation with a view to enhancing the prosperity of the
company and its shareholders over time. 
The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are
separated and clearly defined. The Chairman's overall responsibility
is to ensure that the Board carries out its responsibilities. The
Group Chief Executive's responsibilities are to direct and promote
the operation and development of the Group. 
One of the non-executive directors is not considered independent
as he is deemed to represent a significant shareholder. The Board
have considered the appointment of a third non-executive director,
and on 1 September 2004, Lord Inglewood was appointed a director
of the Company. Lord Inglewood will be the senior independent
non-executive director. The Board has not set an objective on the
reduction of directors' service contract periods to one year or less.
The Board does not wish to reduce the service contract period
below the current level of two years as it feels that this is the
minimum appropriate to retain the services of key executives with
significant knowledge of the business in which the Group trades.
Each director is provided with sufficient information to enable him to
discharge his duties and responsibilities as a director.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary. The Board has also established a formal procedure
whereby directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their
duties, may take independent professional advice, if necessary, at
the Company's expense.
The Articles of Association require one-third of the Board to retire
by rotation at every Annual General Meeting. The Combined Code
requires that directors are required to present themselves for 
re-election at intervals of no more than three years. It is the Board's
intention to amend the Articles of Association at an appropriate
time to ensure compliance with this provision, but in the interim,
the Board intends to operate re-elections of directors in a manner
to ensure compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board meets regularly and has reserved certain items for its
review and approval, including the annual and interim results, the
annual profit and cash flow budget, significant acquisitions and
divestments, and senior management appointments.
Directors' remuneration
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee, the role of
which is to review the performance of the executive directors and
to set the scale and structure of their remuneration, including
bonus arrangements. The Committee comprised David Newton as
Chairman and the other non-executive director. From 1 September
2004 Lord Inglewood will be appointed to this Committee. The
report on directors' remuneration is set out on pages 16 to 19.
Accountability and audit
In submitting this Annual Report and the Financial Statements to
the shareholders, the Board has sought to ensure that a balanced
and understandable assessment of the company's position and
prospects has been presented to shareholders.
Corporate Governance 14
Carr's Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising the 
non-executive directors, with Robert Heygate as Chairman. 
From 1 September 2004 Lord Inglewood will be appointed to 
this Committee. The Committee is responsible inter alia for
safeguarding the company's assets. The Committee meets at 
least twice a year and reviews the annual and interim financial
statements and the other documents to be sent to shareholders
before they are submitted for Board approval. The Committee also
has meetings with the auditors at least twice a year. The Group
does not have an internal auditor, which is kept under annual
review, but a member of the head office accounting staff is
available to conduct reviews of internal control and specific areas 
of concern where this is thought necessary.
Internal Control
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is designed
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, the
maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of
financial information.
The Combined Code required directors to introduce procedures
and review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
control, including financial, operational and compliance controls
and risk management. These procedures establish the process by
which the Board will, on an ongoing basis, identify, evaluate and
manage the significant risks faced by the Group and carry out its
annual review of the effectiveness of the internal controls. These
procedures have been in place for the year under review and up 
to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts. The
Board reviewed the internal controls this year and it is intended
that these procedures will be kept under review each year and
adjusted as appropriate.
The Board's risk management strategy is to follow a prudent risk
policy. Business risks are evaluated at Group level as part of the
annual budgeting process. The executive directors and the senior
management of subsidiary companies have responsibility for
identifying the risks facing each business and then establish
procedures or putting policies in place to mitigate or monitor them.
Treasury risks are evaluated by the Group Finance Director who is
responsible to the Board for evaluating all significant borrowings,
foreign currency and interest rate management facilities.
The Group has comprehensive budgets and detailed monthly
reporting, together with daily cash reporting. The annual budget is
reviewed with senior management and submitted to the Board for
approval. Revised forecasts for the year are prepared if results are
deviating significantly from the budget. 
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with
all shareholders. The Company maintains dialogue with institutional
shareholders and analysts, and general presentations are made
when financial results are announced. All shareholders have access
to the Company's website at www.carrs-milling.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue
with private investors. All shareholders are given the opportunity to
raise questions at the meeting. The Company aims to send notices
of Annual General Meetings to shareholders at least 20 working
days before the meeting, as required by The Combined Code, and
it is the Company's practice to indicate the proxy voting results on
all resolutions at the meetings.
Going Concern
Based on normal business planning and control procedures the
directors are confident that the Company has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason, the directors adopt the going concern basis in the
preparation of the Group's financial statements.
By Order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Secretary
Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
8 November 2004
Corporate Governance
continued