 Castings P .L.C. 
Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
23415.04   16 June 2014 7:27 AM   Proof 2
Corporate Governance
General 
Castings P .L.C. recognises the importance 
of high standards of Corporate 
Governance. The board has considered 
the principles and provisions of the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code and 
will continue to adhere to them where it 
is in the interests of the business, and of 
shareholders, to do so. 
The manner in which the board provides 
leadership of the company within a 
framework of prudent and effective 
controls is set out in this section and also 
within the Remuneration report. 
Board of directors 
The board meets regularly to monitor the 
current state of business and to determine 
its future strategic direction. During the 
year the board comprised six executive 
directors and three non-executive 
directors. The non-executive directors are 
independent of executive management 
and none of the non-executive directors 
participate in share option or other 
executive remuneration schemes nor do 
they qualify for pension benefits. 
Although two of the non-executive 
directors have served for more than ten 
years their knowledge, advice and controls 
are considered invaluable to the group. 
Directors receive regular updates 
appropriate to the business throughout 
the year. 
To assist with the conduct of their 
function, the non-executive directors 
are able to obtain professional advice 
at the company's expense if required in 
connection with their duties. In addition, 
all directors have access to the services of 
the company secretary. 
Board committees 
The principal committees established by 
the directors are: 
Audit and Risk committee 
Further details are contained within the 
Audit and Risk Committee report on  
page 16.
Remuneration committee 
Further details are set out in the 
remuneration report on page 18. 
Nomination committee 
This committee comprises the three non-
executive directors and is chaired by  
G. B. Wainwright. The chairman may 
attend meetings as appropriate to the 
business in hand but is not a member of 
the committee. The committee did not 
meet during the year. 
Directors' conflicts of 
interest 
A director has a statutory duty to avoid 
a situation in which he has, or can have, 
an interest that conflicts or possibly may 
conflict with the interests of the company. 
A director will not breach that duty if the 
relevant matter has been authorised in 
accordance with the Articles of Association 
by the other directors. 
The board has conducted a review of 
actual or possible conflicts of interest in 
respect of each director. At its meeting on 
22 May 2013, the board considered the 
process for identifying current conflicts, 
authorised conflicts that have been 
identified and stipulated conditions in 
accordance with the guiding principles and 
agreed a process to identify and authorise 
future conflicts. In practice, directors are 
asked to consider and disclose actual or 
potential conflicts at the beginning of each 
meeting and as and when a matter arises.
Attendance at board and board committee 
meetings during the year is detailed in the 
table shown below:
Board
Audit and Risk 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Director 
Eligible to 
attend Attended 
Eligible to 
attend Attended 
Eligible to 
attend Attended 
B. J. Cooke 8 8         
D. J. Gawthorpe 8 8         
S. J. Mant 8 8         
M. A. Lewis 8 8         
G. Cooper 8 8         
A. Vicary 8 8         
C. P . King 8 7 3 3 1 1 
G. B. Wainwright 8 8 3 2 1 1 
A. N. Jones 8 7 3 3 1 1 
Relations with 
shareholders 
The company holds meetings from time 
to time with institutional shareholders 
to discuss the company's strategy and 
financial performance. The Annual General 
Meeting is used to communicate with 
private and institutional investors.
Internal control 
The board is ultimately responsible for 
the group's system of internal controls, 
including internal financial control, and 
for monitoring its effectiveness. There 
is a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the group which is regularly 
reviewed and has been in place throughout 
the year under review and up to the date of 
approval of the annual report and accounts. 
However, such a system is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives 
and can provide only reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The review covers 
all controls including financial, operational, 
compliance and risk management. 
14 Castings P .L.C. 
Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
23415.04   16 June 2014 7:27 AM   Proof 2
The directors confirm that they have 
established procedures necessary to 
implement the internal control guidance for 
directors such that they fully comply with 
the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 
for the accounting period ended on  
31 March 2014. 
Internal financial control 
The directors are responsible for 
maintaining the group's systems of internal 
financial control. These controls are 
designed to both safeguard the group's 
assets and ensure the reliability of financial 
information used within the business and 
for publication. As with any such systems, 
controls can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
Internal financial control is operated within a 
clearly defined organisational structure with 
clear control responsibilities and authorities, 
and a practice throughout the group of 
regular management and board meetings to 
review all aspects of the group's businesses 
including those aspects where there is a 
potential risk to the group. 
For each business there are regular 
weekly and monthly reports, reviewed by 
boards and management, which contain 
both written reports and accounts. The 
accounts include profit and loss accounts 
and balance sheets for the period under 
review, year to date and previous year and 
are compared with expected results. A 
variety of operational and financial ratios 
are also produced. 
Continual monitoring of the systems of 
internal financial control is conducted by all 
management. The external auditors, who 
are engaged to express an opinion on the 
group accounts, also consider the systems 
of internal financial control to the extent 
necessary to express that opinion. The 
external auditors report the results of their 
work to management, including members 
of the board and the audit committee. 
The board does not consider there is a 
need for an internal audit function due to 
the size and non-complexity of the group. 
Going concern 
The directors have assessed the future 
funding requirements of the group and 
the company and compared them to the 
level of funding available. Details of the 
cash position are set out in note 19 to the 
Accounts. The group's objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital, 
its financial risk management objectives, 
details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities, and its exposure to 
credit risk and liquidity risk are also set out 
in notes 17 and 19 to the accounts. 
The directors' assessment included a 
review of the group's financial forecasts, 
and financial instruments for the 15 
months from the balance sheet date. The 
directors considered a range of potential 
scenarios within the key markets the group 
serves and how these may impact on cash 
flow. The group and company's business 
activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance 
and position are set out in the Strategic 
Report. The directors also considered what 
mitigating actions the group could take to 
limit any adverse consequences. 
After making these enquiries, the directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the 
company and the group have adequate 
resources to continue operations for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. 
Summary 
The board takes its responsibilities 
seriously even though there are a number 
of areas in which it does not comply fully 
with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance 
Code. It does not feel that the size or 
complexity of the group and the way in 
which it governs would be enhanced 
or strengthened by further changing 
the already existing high standards of 
corporate governance practised. 
For the year ended 31 March 2014 the 
company complied with the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code other than 
the following points: 
 	 There were three non-executive 
directors during the year. Although 
two of these directors have served 
for more than ten years the board 
recognises the value they bring 
and believes it is important too that 
shareholders have the reassurance of 
non-executives on the board whose 
independence is beyond question. 
 	 The non-executive directors do not 
have specified term contracts. 
 	 The chairman is also regarded as an 
executive director but on reduced 
hours. However, the chief executive 
is responsible for the day-to-day 
running of the group through the 
managing directors of each location. 
The chairman concentrates on the 
effective working of the board and 
overall group strategies and remains 
a high level contact with our main 
customers. 
 	 The role of the financial director and 
company secretary are fulfilled by 
the same person as there is no one 
else within the group qualified to do 
the job and it would not be a full-time 
position. The board monitors the 
effectiveness of this arrangement 
annually. 
These are considered appropriate in 
relation to the size of the company and the 
way in which it operates. 
By order of the board 
S. J. Mant  
Company Secretary 
11 June 2014
Strategic Report
15
Strategic Report Governance Financials