 Principles of good governance
When the Company transferred to AIM on 27 November 2006 the Directors committed to maintain levels of corporate governance in line with those
previously adopted by the Group. Therefore, although The Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules incorporate the Combined Code of Corporate
Governance (the Code ) are not mandatory for AIM listed companies, the Group remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and
has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code as described below and in the Directors' Remuneration Report, in a manner appropriate
to the size and nature of the Group.
The Group complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report
and Accounts, except for the following matter, which is considered by the Board to be inappropriate given the size and nature of the Group:
No formal process for whistle blowing was in place during the year, although an open door policy has always been adopted in relation to employees
voicing their concerns over aspects of the Group's corporate governance processes. As noted in section (i) on the Audit Committee below, the
introduction of a more formal process will be implemented in the current financial year. 
The Board and its committees:
(a) The Board
The Board normally comprises a non-executive chairman, two other non-executive directors and three executive directors. The directors
(including non-executive directors) have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement to bear on issues
of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Company. The Board meets at least eight
times a year and additionally when necessary. At each scheduled meeting of the Board, the Chief Executive reports on the Company's
operations and the Finance Director reports on the financial position of the Company. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors
receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all directors in advance of board
meetings. In addition the Board has adopted standard procedures and practices whereby significant issues affecting the Company are reviewed
on a regular basis. 
All non-executive directors are considered to be independent by the Board. Tom Brown is the independent non-executive chairman and Keith
Jackson is the senior independent non-executive director. There is a schedule of matters which are reserved for decision by the Board and
matters which are delegated to the various Board committees or to the executive directors, along with monetary levels of authority for capital
expenditure and other financial commitments.
Following the appointment of new directors, an appropriately tailored induction programme is arranged and the training needs of directors 
are regularly considered. If appropriate, all directors have the authority to take independent legal advice and have direct access to the 
Company Secretary. 
Evaluation of the performance of the Board has historically been carried out by the Chairman and Chief Executive, and evaluation of the
performance of individual directors has also been carried out by the Remuneration Committee. A more formal evaluation process was
introduced during year.
(b) Chairman and Chief Executive
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive director who is responsible for the running of the Board. The Board is responsible to
shareholders for the overall direction and control of the Company, and the Chief Executive is responsible to the Board for management 
of the Company within the parameters set by the Board. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
(c) Service contracts
See page 17 in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
(d) Supply of information
The Board is satisfied that it is provided with information in an appropriate form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties. 
(e) Appointments to the Board
The Nominations Committee, formed at the start of the financial year, makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board
generally and on the balance between executive and non-executive directors. It also makes recommendations on the appointment of new
directors and subsequent re-appointments on retirement by rotation. It comprises the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive. During
the year it has considered and made recommendations on the appointment of a new non-executive director and on the appointment of the
new Finance Director. An external search consultancy was used in both cases.
13 Report and Accounts 2007
Corporate Governance
70763 PRE  26/6/07  3:37 pm  Page 13 (f) Re-election of directors
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
(g) Directors' remuneration
The statement of the Company's policy on executive directors' remuneration and details of directors' emoluments are contained in the
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 20.
(h) Relations with shareholders
Members of the Board hold meetings from time to time with major shareholders to discuss the Company's strategy and financial performance.
These are usually held after the public announcement of results each 6 months and usually involve the Company's brokers, through whom
feedback from institutional investors is obtained as necessary.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with all private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
(i) Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which consists of the three non-executive directors, Keith Jackson (Chairman), Tom Brown and Alan Howarth, meets 
at least three times a year with the external auditors in attendance when required. It has formal terms of reference and it assists the Board 
in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, financial systems, internal controls and compliance procedures are in place. It also reviews 
the relationship between the Group and the external auditors in terms of the provision of non-audit services and ensuring that auditor
independence and objectivity is maintained. The auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and an open-door 
policy has also been adopted in relation to any concerns staff may have concerning the propriety of Group operations and activities. No issues
or incidents have come to light as a result of this policy. The Board has resolved to formalise this policy to ensure that employees with such
concerns are more actively encouraged to come forward and make their concerns known to the Audit Committee. 
All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated member,
the overriding consideration being to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impact the external auditor's independence 
and objectivity.
(j) Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the three non-executive directors. Further details are shown in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
(k) Annual General Meeting
All directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
(l) Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in accordance with the guidance set out 
in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code  (the Turnbull Guidance). However, such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Code has a requirement that the directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. This includes internal financial
controls and controls over financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Board confirms that regular reviews are carried out,
including the annual completion of internal control questionnaires by the directors in each business, and that there was full compliance throughout
the year. 
The Group also operates a risk management process whereby each business identifies its key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their
potential impact, and action needed to manage them. This is carried out as a specific exercise as part of the annual budgeting process, but is also
part of the day to day management process of each business. The Group has established procedures for planning and budgeting and monitoring
the operational and financial performance of all businesses in the Group, as well as their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These
procedures include:
Corporate Governance
continued
14 Chamberlin & Hill plc
70763 PRE  26/6/07  3:37 pm  Page 14   Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for good financial controls in the production of accurate and timely financial
management information.
  The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
  Detailed monthly budgeting and reporting of trading results, balance sheets and cash flows with regular reviews of variances from budgets by
management and the Board.
  Reporting on compliance with internal financial controls and procedures by each individual business unit under the supervision of the Group
Finance Director and at the year end by external auditors. Interim and Annual Reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to issue.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a Group internal audit function. The Board considers that the control systems and
procedures currently undertaken by the Group are adequately performed by the management and that the Group has not yet reached a size 
where a separate internal audit function would be an appropriate or cost effective method of ensuring compliance with Group policies. It therefore
does not currently propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be kept under review as part of the Board's assessment of 
the Group's systems of internal control.
Summary of attendance at meetings
Board Nominations Remuneration Audit
meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings in the year 11453
Tom Brown 11453
Keith Jackson 11453
Alan Howarth (appointed 16/1/07) 3 n/a 3 1
Nick Kuenssberg (retired 31/12/06) 7322
Tim Hair (appointed 5/6/06) 10 4 n/a n/a
Mark Bache (appointed 1/12/06) 4 n/a n/a n/a
Adam Vicary 10 n/a n/a n/a
Barrie Williams (retired 30/9/06) 5 1 n/a n/a
Simon Duckworth (resigned 1/12/06) 7 n/a n/a n/a
n/a - Indicates that a director was not a member of a particular committee and did not attend its meetings.
By order of the Board
Mark Bache
Secretary
7 June 2007
15 Report and Accounts 2007
70763 PRE  26/6/07  3:37 pm  Page 15