 14
Chamberlin plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.chamberlin.co.uk
17801	 30/06/10	 Proof	4
Corporate Governance
Principles of good governance
When the Company transferred to AIM in November 2006 the Directors committed to maintain levels of corporate governance in line with 
those previously adopted by the Group. Therefore, although The Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules which incorporate the Combined 
Code of Corporate Governance (the Code ) are not mandatory for AIM listed companies, the Group remains committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code as described below and in the Directors' Remuneration 
Report, in a manner appropriate to the size and nature of the Group.
The Group complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, as stated at November 2006, throughout the year and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
The Board and its committees:
(a) The Board
 The Board normally comprises a non-executive Chairman, two other non-executive Directors and at least two executive Directors. The 
Directors (including non-executive Directors) have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement to 
bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group. The Board meets 
at least ten times a year and additionally when necessary. At each scheduled meeting of the Board, the Chief Executive reports on the 
Group's operations and the Finance Director reports on the financial position of the Group. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all 
Directors receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance 
of board meetings. In addition the Board has adopted standard procedures and practices whereby significant issues affecting the Group 
are reviewed on a regular basis. 
 All non-executive Directors are considered to be independent by the Board. Tom Brown is the independent non-executive Chairman and 
Keith Jackson is the senior independent non-executive Director. There is a schedule of matters which are reserved for decision by the Board 
and matters which are delegated to the various board committees or to the executive Directors, along with monetary levels of authority for 
capital expenditure and other financial commitments.
 Following the appointment of new Directors, an appropriately tailored induction programme is arranged and the training needs of 
Directors are regularly considered. If appropriate, all Directors have the authority to take independent legal advice and have direct access 
to the Company Secretary. 
 Evaluation of the performance of the Board and evaluation of the performance of individual Directors is conducted regularly on an  
annual cycle.
(b) Chairman and Chief Executive
 The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director who is responsible for the running of the Board. The Board is responsible to 
shareholders for the overall direction and control of the Company, and the Chief Executive is responsible to the Board for management of 
the Company within the parameters set by the Board. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
(c) Service contracts
 See page 18 in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
(d) Supply of information
 The Board is satisfied that it is provided with information in an appropriate form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties. 
17801CHAMBERL.indd   14 02/07/2010   13:43 15
Chamberlin plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Stock code: CMH
17801	 30/06/10	 Proof	4
(e) Appointments to the Board
 The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board generally and on the balance 
between executive and non-executive Directors. It also makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and subsequent 
reappointments on retirement by rotation. It comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive. The Chairman of the 
Committee is Tom Brown.
(f) Re-election of Directors
 All Directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years in accordance with the Articles of Association of the 
Company.
(g) Directors' remuneration
 The statement of the Company's policy on executive Directors' remuneration and details of Directors' emoluments are contained in the 
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 21.
(h) Relations with shareholders
 Members of the Board hold meetings from time to time with major shareholders to discuss the Company's strategy and financial 
performance. These are usually held after the public announcement of results each six months and usually involve the Company's brokers, 
through whom feedback from institutional investors is obtained as necessary.
 The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with all private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
(i) Audit Committee
 The Audit Committee, which consists of the three non-executive Directors, Keith Jackson (Chairman), Tom Brown and Alan Howarth, meets 
at least twice per year with the external auditors in attendance when required. It has formal terms of reference and it assists the Board in 
ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, financial systems, internal controls and compliance procedures are in place. It also reviews 
the relationship between the Group and the external auditors in terms of the provision of non-audit services and ensuring that Auditor 
independence and objectivity is maintained. The Auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. A formal whistle-
blowing  policy is in operation, providing direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in relation to any concerns staff may have 
concerning the propriety of Group operations and activities. No issues or incidents have come to light as a result of this policy. 
 
 All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or its delegated 
member, the overriding consideration being to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impact the external Auditor's 
independence and objectivity.
(j) Remuneration Committee
 The Remuneration Committee comprises the three non-executive Directors. Further details are shown in the Directors' Remuneration 
Report.
(k) Annual General Meeting
 All Directors expect to attend the Annual General Meeting and to be available to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
17801CHAMBERL.indd   15 02/07/2010   13:43 16
Chamberlin plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.chamberlin.co.uk
17801	 30/06/10	 Proof	4
Corporate Governance continued
(l) Internal control
 The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in accordance with the guidance set 
out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code , as stated at November 2006. However, such a system is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
 The Code has a requirement that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls. This includes internal 
financial controls and controls over financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Directors of each business are required 
to complete an annual internal control questionnaire, which when combined with regular reviews gives the Board confidence that internal 
controls are effective. 
 The Group also operates a risk management process whereby each business identifies its key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, 
their potential impact, and action needed to manage them. This is carried out as a specific exercise as part of the annual budgeting process, 
but is also part of the day to day management process of each business. The Group has established procedures for planning and budgeting 
and monitoring the operational and financial performance of all businesses in the Group, as well as their compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations. These procedures include:
	   Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for good financial controls in the production of accurate and timely 
financial management information.
	   The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
	   Detailed monthly budgeting and reporting of trading results, balance sheets and cash flows with regular reviews of variances from 
budgets by management and the Board.
	   Reporting on compliance with internal financial controls and procedures by each individual business unit under the supervision of the 
Group Finance Director and at the year end by external Auditors. Interim and Annual Reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior 
to issue.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a Group internal audit function. The Board considers that the control systems and 
procedures currently undertaken by the Group are adequately performed by the management and that the Group has not yet reached a 
size where a separate internal audit function would be an appropriate or cost effective method of ensuring compliance with Group policies. 
It therefore does not currently propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be kept under review as part of the Board's 
assessment of the Group's systems of internal control.
Summary of attendance at meetings
   Board Nominations Remuneration Audit
   meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings in the year   10 1 9 2
Tom Brown   10 1 9 2
Keith Jackson    10 1 9 2
Alan Howarth    9 1 9 2
Tim Hair    10 1 n/a n/a
Mark Bache    10 n/a n/a n/a
Adam Vicary   10 n/a n/a n/a
 n/a - Indicates that a Director was not a member of a particular committee.
By order of the Board
Mark Bache
Secretary
10 June 2010
17801CHAMBERL.indd   16 02/07/2010   13:43