  12 The Character Group plc  annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2004
R E P O RT O F T H E D I R E C T O R S C O N T I N U E D
Corporate Governance Statement
The directors have considered the provisions set out in the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best 
Practice (the Combined Code ) appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors
The Board of directors comprises five executive directors and four non-executive directors, as detailed on  
page 8. The independent non-executive directors are Lord Birdwood, Mr Fenn (who is the senior independent 
non-executive director) and Mr Harris. The Board is structured so that no one individual or group dominates  
the decision-making process. 
Board meetings are held four times a year and at other times as required to address requirements arising 
between these scheduled meetings. A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to the Board, including 
(inter alia) overall strategy and monitoring of financial performance, has been adopted. 
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee 
with duties and responsibilities formally delegated to them. 
Audit Committee
I S Fenn (Chairman), Lord Birdwood, D Harris
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly 
measured and reported and for reviewing reports from the auditors relating to Group accounts and the Group's 
internal control systems. The committee is also responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring 
of the Company's policy on external audit. The committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the 
independence, objectively and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements. The committee also ensures 
that key partners within the external auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with UK rules.
Remuneration Committee
Lord Birdwood (Chairman), I S Fenn, D Harris
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and  
the senior management and for the operation of the Company's share option schemes. The Directors' 
Remuneration Report is shown on pages 15 to 17.
Nominations Committee
R King (Chairman), Lord Birdwood, I S Fenn, D Harris
The Nominations Committee is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board changes in the 
Board's composition and membership. 
All non-executive directors of the Company who are members of these committees are entitled to seek, at the 
Company's expense, independent professional advice in connection with their roles on these committees. 
Internal Control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Following publication of the guidance for directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code  (the T urnbull Guidance ), the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been in place 
throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts and is 
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance. 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. In particular it has reviewed and 
updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies  13 The Character Group plc  annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2004
and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Key elements of the Group's system of internal control are as follows:
Control environment
   the setting of appropriate levels of authorisation which must be adhered to as the Group conducts its business
   the implementation of a recognised organisational and management reporting structure within which individual 
executive directors have responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business
   established and detailed procedures for the setting of annual budgets and monthly forecasts and the ongoing 
monitoring of actual financial performance against these targets, on a monthly basis, both at operational and 
Board level and 
   a clearly defined and well-established set of accounting policies which ensure that the financial performance is 
recorded on a consistent and appropriate basis throughout the Group's reporting entities.
Monitoring and corrective action
There are ongoing procedures in place for monitoring the system of internal financial controls. The remit of the 
Audit Committee includes meeting to review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal financial controls, 
and considering reports made to it by the Group's auditors. The Group does not have an internal audit function. 
During the year the Board have reviewed the need for an internal audit function and continues to believe that 
the current size of the Group does not warrant the establishment of an internal audit function. The need for an 
internal audit function will continue to be reviewed on an annual basis.
Risk management
Management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of 
the business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls. These risks are assessed on a 
continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, 
disruption in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Management report to the Board regularly on their review of risks and how they have managed the risks. The 
Board reviews the key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary to manage such risks. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group finances itself through a combination of equity and short term debt. The Group satisfied its 
liquidity requirements during the period under review. The Group's main working capital facility is provided by 
factoring. There was also continued use of short term bank facilities during the period under review. As at 31 
August 2004, the Group had committed bank facilities of  7.25 million, of which  1.52 million was undrawn. 
 Foreign currency risk 
The Group faces foreign currency exposures on translation of the net assets and results of its overseas 
subsidiaries and on trading transactions undertaken mainly in US dollars. The Group seeks to mitigate the 
effect of its currency exposures by buying currency forward when appropriate. The Group does not hedge its 
resulting translation exposures as these are accounting rather than cash exposures. 
R E P O RT O F T H E D I R E C T O R S C O N T I N U E D  14 The Character Group plc  annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2004
R E P O RT O F T H E D I R E C T O R S C O N T I N U E D
Relations with shareholders
The Board supports the principle of clear reporting of financial performance to shareholders. Each year 
shareholders receive a full annual report and an interim report, with supplementary trading statements issued 
from time to time where appropriate. 
Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to answer any questions 
from the shareholders. 
Compliance statement
Throughout the year the Group has fully complied with the provisions of the Combined Code with the 
following exceptions:
   Code provision D.3.1 states that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three directors, all of which 
should be non executive. Until 30 April 2004, the Audit Committee only consisted of two non-executive 
directors and R King, which the Board considered appropriate, given the method of operation of the 
Group. On 1 May 2004, D Harris was appointed as a non-executive director and as a member of the Audit 
Committee. On the same day, R King ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee. As a result the Group 
now fully complies with code provision D.3.1.
   Code provision A.6.2 states that all directors should be subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three 
years. The executive directors' service contracts were prepared before the Combined Code was issued, and as 
such do not contain such re-election provisions. An amendment cannot be made unilaterally by the Company 
to an executive director's service contract and any such amendment would, accordingly, have to be negotiated 
in turn with each executive director. Given the significant shareholdings of the executive directors, and the 
potential cost to the Company of compensating the executive directors for any such amendment to their 
contracts, the Board considers that the existing arrangements with the executive directors should, for the time 
being, remain undisturbed in this respect. 
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Board considers that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for 
the foreseeable future and has therefore adopted the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By Order of the Board
 
K P Shah FCCA
Secretary
Registered Office:
5th Floor, 4 Chiswell Street
London EC1Y 4UP
9  December 2004