  
 
 
 
 
 
 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2009 13 
 
The directors continue to embrace the principles contained in the combined code of corporate governance issued in July 2003, 
revised in 2006 and 2008 and, whilst compliance with this code is not a requirement of the AIM rules, apply such principles as far 
as considered appropriate for a public company of the Company's size.  
 
Directors  
The Board of directors comprises four executive directors and four non-executive directors, as detailed on page 7. The 
independent non-executive directors are Lord Birdwood, Mr Fenn (who is the senior independent non-executive director), Mr 
Harris and Mr MacKay. Whilst Lord Birdwood and Mr Fenn have served as directors of the Company for more than 9 years, the 
Board considers that they have demonstrated throughout their tenures that they are independent, both in character and judgment. 
The Board is structured so that no one individual or group dominates the decision-making process. 
  
Board meetings are held at least four times a year and at other times as required to address requirements arising between these 
scheduled meetings.  
 
During the year, five Board meetings were held. The directors attended as follows:  
 Attendance 
R King 5
K P Shah 5
J J P Kissane 5
J J Diver 5
I S Fenn 4
Lord Birdwood 5
D Harris 5
A B MacKay 5
 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision. It determines the overall Group strategy; creation, 
acquisition or disposal of material corporate entities or assets; public announcements (including statutory financial statements); 
significant changes in accounting policy, capital structure and dividend policy; group remuneration policy and Board structure, 
composition and succession.  
 
The Board delegates to management, through the executive directors, the overall performance of the Group, which is conducted 
principally through the setting of clear objectives.  
 
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee, with duties and 
responsibilities formally delegated to them. The terms of reference set out each Committee's responsibilities. The terms of 
reference for the Audit Committee can be viewed at the Company's Registered Office.  
 
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors  
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and directors is undertaken by the Chairman and implemented in 
collaboration with the Committee Chairmen. The 2009 Board evaluation was conducted by way of a discussion between the 
Chairman and each of the directors. The independent non-executive directors met separately to review the Chairman's 
performance and provide feedback to him. Following formal performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that the 
performance of non-executive directors continues to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to the role. 
 
Audit Committee  
I S Fenn (Chairman), Lord Birdwood and D Harris  
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly measured and reported 
and for reviewing reports from the auditors relating to Group financial statements and the Group's internal control systems. The 
committee is also responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Company's policy on external audit. 
The committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the auditors' independence, objectivity and compliance with 
ethical and regulatory requirements. The committee also ensures that key partners within the external auditors are rotated from 
time to time in accordance with UK rules. During the year, two meetings were held which were attended by all three members.  
 
Remuneration Committee  
Lord Birdwood (Chairman), I S Fenn and D Harris  
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and the senior management 
and for the operation of the Company's share option schemes. The Directors' Remuneration Report is shown on pages 16 to 18. 
During the year one meeting was held, which was attended by all three members.  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT   
14 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2009 
Nominations Committee  
R King (Chairman), Lord Birdwood, I S Fenn and D Harris  
The Nominations Committee is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board changes in the Board's composition 
and membership. No meetings were held during the year.  
 
All non-executive directors of the Company who are members of these committees are entitled to seek, at the Company's 
expense, independent professional advice in connection with their roles on these committees.  
 
Internal Control  
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.  
 
Following publication of the guidance for directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code , the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group. This process has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 
annual report and financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.  
 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process 
for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are 
managed.  
 
Key elements of the Group's system of internal control are as follows:  
 
Control environment  
  the setting of appropriate levels of authorisation which must be adhered to as the Group conducts its business  
  the implementation of a recognised organisational and management reporting structure within which individual executive 
directors have responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business  
  established and detailed procedures for the setting of annual budgets and monthly forecasts and the monitoring of actual 
financial performance against these targets, on a monthly basis, both at operational and Board level  
  a clearly defined and well-established set of accounting policies which ensure that the financial performance is recorded on a 
consistent and appropriate basis throughout the Group's reporting entities.  
 
Monitoring and corrective action  
There are ongoing procedures in place for monitoring the system of internal financial controls. The remit of the Audit Committee 
includes meeting to review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal financial controls and considering reports made to 
it by the Group's auditors. The Group does not have an internal audit function. During the year the Board has reviewed the need 
for an internal audit function and continues to believe that the current size of the Group does not warrant the establishment of an 
internal audit function. The need for an internal audit function will continue to be reviewed on an annual basis.  
 
Risk management  
Management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of the business 
together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls. These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be 
associated with a variety of internal or external factors, including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, natural 
catastrophe and regulatory requirements.  
 
Management report to the Board regularly on their review of risks and how they have managed the risks. The Board reviews the 
key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary to manage such risks.  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    CONTINUED   
 
 
 
 
 
 The Character Group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2009 15 
Relations with shareholders  
The Board supports the principle of clear reporting of financial performance to shareholders. During a financial year, 
shareholders receive either a letter informing them that the Group's full annual report and an interim report are available to view 
and download from the investors section of the Company's website or, if they have so elected, hard copy of such reports . Other 
supplementary trading statements issued via the London Stock Exchange are also placed on the investors section of the 
Company's website and, where appropriate, may also be sent to shareholders in the post.  
  
As indicated in the Chairman's statement, as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders, the Board believes 
that utilising electronic communications delivers savings to the Company in terms of administration, printing and postage, and 
also the environment through reduced consumption of paper and inks. 
 
Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to answer any questions from the 
shareholders.  
 
Compliance statement  
Throughout the year the Group has fully complied with the provisions of the Combined Code with the following exception: 
 
  Code provision A.7.1 states that all directors should be subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years. The 
executive directors' service contracts were prepared before the Combined Code was issued and, as such, do not contain such 
re-election provisions. An amendment cannot be made unilaterally by the Company to an executive director's service 
contract and any such amendment would, accordingly, have to be negotiated in turn with each executive director. Given the 
significant shareholdings of the executive directors, and the potential cost to the Company of compensating the executive 
directors for any such amendment to their contracts, the Board considers that the existing arrangements with the executive 
directors should, for the time being, remain undisturbed in this respect.  
 
Going Concern  
After making enquiries, the Board considers that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable 
future and has therefore adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  
 
By Order of the Board  
 
 
 
K P Shah FCCA  
Secretary  
 
Registered Office:  
2
nd
 Floor 
10 Chiswell Street  
London  
EC1Y 4UQ  
 
Registered number 3033333 
30 November 2009 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT    CONTINUED 