 19 C.I. Traders Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Corporate Governance
The Company's shares are listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange (AIM ) and the Company
must comply with the rules published by the London Stock Exchange for companies listed on AIM (AIM Rules ). The AIM
Rules do not mandate compliance with the Combined Code (the Hampel Code ) issued by the Committee on Corporate
Governance. However, the Board acknowledges the importance of the Hampel Code and is committed to applying its principles
as far as is practicable and sets out below how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Hampel Code. Except as
noted below, throughout the year ended 31 January 2004, the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance and with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
The Hampel Code establishes fourteen Principles of Good Governance, which are split into the four groups described below.
1Directors
The Board meets formally at least 6 times a year and currently consists of two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive
Directors. All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent. Throughout the period under review the
Chairman and Group Chief Executive had separate roles and responsibilities.
Detailed Board papers are prepared for each meeting of the Board and are normally circulated the week prior to each meeting.
The Board papers include sufficient information from management on financial business and corporate issues to enable the
Directors to be properly briefed on issues to be considered at Board meetings.
The Board reserves to itself a range of key decisions to ensure it retains proper direction and control of the Group, whilst delegating
authority to individual Executive Directors and Senior Management, who are responsible for the day to day management of the
business through the annual business plan and budget. In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and they can also seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Company's expense.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment 
and shall not remain in office for longer than three years since their last election without submitting themselves for re-election.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements and have no automatic right of re-appointment. They bring
experience to the Board from their different fields of business and ensure that all matters of strategy, performance, progress 
and standards are debated thoroughly, robustly and constructively. Sir Michael Wilkes is the Senior Independent Director.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, Sir Michael Wilkes and Jurat D. C. Lowe and the
Executive Chairman, Mr T. H. Scott. The Committee is chaired by Sir Michael Wilkes and met on three occasions during the 
year and is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of Executive Directors and Senior
Management. Code Provision B.2.2 requires that Remuneration Committees should consist exclusively of Non-Executive
Directors. However, Mr T. H. Scott is not involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr D. C. Norman, also comprises Mr T. R. Scott and Jurat D. C. Lowe, all Non-
Executive Directors. The Committee met on four occasions during the year and assists the Board in meeting its responsibilities
for ensuring the adequacy of the Group's systems of internal control. The external auditors have free access to the Committee
and report regularly to them.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises two Executive Directors, Mr T. H. Scott and Mr D. M. Bralsford and one Non-Executive
Director, Sir Michael Wilkes. The Committee is chaired by Mr T. H. Scott and met on one occasion during the year and is
responsible for making recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. Code Provision A.5.1 requires the
majority of members of the Nomination Committee to be Non-Executive Directors. However, the Board believes that the 
balance of membership of the Nomination Committee is appropriate. 20 C.I. Traders Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 
Corporate Governance Continued
2Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration Committee considers and recommends the remuneration, whether by way of salary or other benefits, of the
Directors and Senior Executives. It is also able to consider and determine all matters relating to the conditions, terms of service 
and remuneration of the Senior Executives of the Group on the recommendation of the Chief Executive. No Director plays a part 
in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors'remuneration and service contracts is set out on pages 22 and 23 
of this Annual Report.
3 Relations with shareholders
The Company encourages dialogue with both institutional and private investors. Meetings are held with the Company's larger
Institutional Shareholders and contact is kept with large private Shareholders. All members of the Board Committees will attend 
the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions from Shareholders.
4 Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the Group's operations are included in the Operating and 
Financial Review. The Board uses this, together with the Chairman's Statement and other reports to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company's position and prospects. The statement of Directors'responsibilities is shown 
on page 21 and the statement on going concern is included in the Operating & Financial Review on page 15.
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into
the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to management's and the Board's attention.
The key risk management activities are described under the following headings:
  Risk register
A register has been established setting out the significant risks and probability of those risks occurring and their potential
impact, the control strategies, the accountabilities and the sources of assurance.
  Allocation of responsibilities and control environment
The Board has set clear terms of reference for each of its Committees and the Group has an organisational structure with
clearly defined and documented delegation of authority to executive management and reporting systems for financial results,
risk exposure and control assessment.
  Financial control
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board; four or five weekly trading results are
prepared for each operating business with a comparison against budget. The Board reviews these for the Group as a whole 
and determines appropriate action.
  Quality and integrity of personnel
The Group's policies are detailed in the  Policies and Procedures Manual', to which all operating businesses are required 
to adhere.
  IT systems
The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of data held on IT systems and put in place
comprehensive disaster recovery arrangements. These arrangements are tested during the year and reviewed by the Group
Finance department. 21 C.I. Traders Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Corporate Governance Continued
  Operating business controls
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against performance indicators and exception reporting. Each operating
unit's senior management is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing major business risks. They make regular
assessments of their exposure to major business risks and the extent to which these risks are controlled. These assessments 
are considered as part of our internal audit tests and reported to the Audit Committee.
  Internal audit
The Group does not have a separate internal audit function however a number of internal audit activities are carried out by
the Group Finance department. The Board regularly reviews the need for a formal internal audit function and is satisfied that
the controls within the Group are both effective and adequate to alleviate the need for this position. The Board will continue
to annually review the need for a separate internal audit function.
  Risk Management Committee
Since the year end and following a detailed review of Group insurances, the Board has approved the formation of a Risk
Management Committee. This Committee is made up of a selected number of Senior Executives and a number of external
advisors from the risk advisory section of the Company's insurance brokers.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control for the year ended 
31 January 2004. The Group's internal financial controls have been and are subject to continuous review and improvement and 
the Board will as far as is practicable seek to establish common procedures of accountability and control across the merged Group.
Directors' responsibility statement
Directors are required by the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to:
- Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
- Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
- State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
-Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
or the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud, error and non-compliance with law and regulations.
The Directors confirm that these financial statements comply with these requirements.
By order of the Board
D. C. Norman
Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 April 2004