 Financial aspects of corporate governance
The Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance. 
The Company aims to comply with the Combined Code (the Code ) which is appended
to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and has adopted a framework for corporate
governance which it believes is suitable for a company of its size.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Company's affairs.
The Directors have reviewed the principles outlined in the Code and believe that, insofar
as they are relevant to a company of its size, they have complied with the provisions of
the Code.
Directors' Statement of Compliance with the revised Combined
Code on Corporate Governance
In July 2003, a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the revised Code)
was published by the Financial Reporting Council, which came into effect for accounting
periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003. The Directors have reviewed the
detailed principles and recommendations outlined in the revised Code and believe that,
to the extent that they are relevant to the Company's business, they have complied with
the provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2004 and that the
Company's current practice is in all material respects consistent with the principles of
the revised Code.
The Board also confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and understanding,
procedures were in place to meet the requirements of the revised Code relating to
internal controls throughout the year under review. This statement describes how the
principles of the revised Code have been applied in the affairs of the Company.
The Board
The Board currently consists of five members, two of whom are Non-Executive
Directors. Given the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have a 
Senior Independent Director.
The Board met on eight occasions throughout the year and all directors were present
with the exception of Mr G Cole who was unable to attend one meeting. All major
decisions as to the direction and control of the Company are taken by the full Board. 
No one Director has unfettered powers of decision. The Group's day to day operations
are managed by the Executive Directors. All Directors have access to the Company
Secretary and any Director needing independent professional advice in the furtherance
of his duties may obtain this advice at the expense of the Company. The Executive
Directors have a one-year rolling service agreement with the Company.
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 The revised Code requires that this report should identify each non-executive director
the Board considers to be independent in character and judgement and whether there
are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect,
the director's judgement, stating its reasons if it determines that a director is independent
notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear to be
relevant to its determination. In the Board's opinion both Messrs French and Cole are
considered to be independent in both character and judgement. Accordingly two of the
five Board members are independent.
Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to periodic retirement and 
re-election by shareholders. In order to comply with the revised Code and the Articles 
of Association, the Directors have adopted a policy providing for all directors to submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Accordingly Mr Cole shall retire, and, being eligible, shall offer himself for re-election. 
A resolution to re-elect Mr Cole is contained with the Notice of the Annual General
Meeting on page 34.
Mr Cole has actively contributed in meetings throughout the year. Following a formal
performance evaluation, the other Board members recommend that shareholders vote
for the re-election of Mr Cole as they believe that his skills, knowledge and overall
performance is of continued benefit to the Company.  
Corporate Governance Committees
The Board has established two Committees comprising the Non-Executive Directors
and one Executive Director. The members are:
Audit Remuneration
John French John French
Graham Cole Graham Cole
Peter Morgan
Peter Morgan is invited to attend the audit committee meetings.
The Board does not consider it necessary to have a Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Cole, met twice last year to review the
audit process and the published financial information, the effectiveness of external audit
and internal controls.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to review the effectiveness of 
the internal control environment of the Company and to monitor adherence to best
practice in corporate governance; to make recommendations to the board in relation to
the re-appointment of the Auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms of
engagement; and to review and monitor the Auditors' independence and objectivity and
the effectiveness of the audit process and provide a forum through which the Company's
Auditors report to the Board. The Audit Committee also has responsibility for monitoring
the integrity of the financial statements and accounting policies of the Company.
Corporate Governance Report continued
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 12 Committee members consider that individually and collectively they are appropriately
experienced to fulfil the role required.
Saffery Champness, the company's Auditors, attend the meeting of the Audit
Committee to approve the financial statements and Annual Report and have direct
access to Committee members. The chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at
the Annual General meeting to deal with any questions relating to the accounts.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered the requirement for an internal audit
function and has concluded that given the current state of operations no internal audit
department is required.
Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr French are:
  recommend to the Board a framework for rewarding senior management, including
Executive Directors, bearing in mind the need to attract and retain individuals of the
highest calibre and with the appropriate experience to make a significant contribution
to the Group; and
  ensure that the elements of the remuneration package are competitive and help in
underpinning the performance-driven culture of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee did not meet in the year although the remuneration of the
Executive directors has increased following an improvement in the Company's trading.
It should be noted however, that the remuneration paid is in line with that outlined in the
company's AIM Admission Document.
Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. This is an ongoing process designed to ensure
adherence to the Group's policies whilst safeguarding the assets of the Group, in addition
to ensuring the management of the risks faced by the Group. This process has been in
place throughout the period and up to the date of signing this report. Responsibility for
implementing a system of internal controls is delegated to the Finance Director.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee on internal control, is
established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group. A formal
risk identification and analysis was conducted in the current financial year.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's objectives. It should be
recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with guidance issued to directors of listed companies, the Directors have
carried out a review of the effectiveness of internal controls as they have operated
during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13 Internal Control Assessment Process
Risk assessment and the review of internal controls are undertaken by the Board in the
context of the Group's overall strategy. The review covers the key business, operational,
compliance and financial risks facing the Group. In arriving at its judgement of what risks
the Group faces, the Board has considered the Group's operations in the light of the
following factors:
  The nature and extent of risks which it regards as acceptable for the Group to bear
within its overall business objective;
  The threat of such risks becoming a reality;
  The Group's ability to reduce the incidence and impact of risk on its performance; and
  The cost and benefits to the Group of operating the relevant controls.
Against this background, the Board has split its review into the following areas:
  Corporate strategy;
  Published information, compliance with laws and regulations; and
  Relationships with service providers.
Internal control
The key procedures established with a view to providing effective internal control are 
as follows:
  Strategic business planning Detailed financial projections for the current
financial year are prepared and subject to formal review at least twice a year.
  Performance review The Directors aim to monitor the Group's performance
through the preparation of monthly management accounts and regular reviews of
work in progress, cash flow projections and the pipeline of future work.
  Review of internal control Compliance with operating control procedures is
covered by the Group's external auditors to the extent necessary to form their
opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board and the Directors
are available to enter into dialogue with shareholders. All shareholders are encouraged
to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting during which the Board is available to
discuss issues affecting the Company. In addition the company maintains a website
(www.theclaimspeople.com) containing information on the Company of interest to
corporate and private shareholders.
Going Concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Report continued
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 14