 Corporate Governance
Whilst the Board supports the provisions of the Code of Best
Practice embodied in Section 1 of the Combined Code (2006),
the size and nature of the Group does not warrant compliance
with all of the Combined Code's requirements. The statements
below set out how the principles are applied to the Group.
Board of directors
The Group is headed by the board, which comprises the 
non-executive Chairman, a non-executive director and the
Chief Executive. Biographical information on all present board
members is presented on page 6. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically
reserved to it for decision-making and is responsible for the
overall strategy and direction of the Group. The Chairman is
responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its
effectiveness and that it operates in the interest of
shareholders. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for
leadership of the business and implementation of strategy.
The non-executive director constructively challenges and helps
develop proposals on strategy, reviews the Chief Executive's
performance through the Remuneration Committee, and
ensures the integrity of financial information through the Audit
Committee. Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full
Board include the following material transactions: acquisitions
and disposals, litigation, capital and development expenditures,
financing matters and any transaction with a related party.
The names of the directors, their respective roles and
committees during 2009 is detailed in the Directors' Report 
on page 7. 
The full Board met four times during 2009 and all members 
of the Board attended each meeting.
Board balance and independence
The Board annually evaluates its balance and independence
and considers that it meets the general guidance on board
balance. S Newman is independent in character and
judgement and no relationships or circumstances requiring
further consideration with respect to their independence is
known to the board.
The Company will continue to evaluate the succession planning
of the board with respect to Code guidance and any 
other circumstances that will enhance the performance of 
the Company.
Board committees
The following committees, which have written terms of
reference (which are available on our web site - www.ccl.com
or on request from the Company Secretary), deal with specific
aspects of the Group's affairs.
  The Remuneration Committee is chaired by S Newman and 
includes H Kitchner. The Remuneration Committee operates
within defined terms of reference and is responsible for 
determining contract terms, remuneration and other benefits
for each of the executive directors, including performance 
related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation 
payments. The Board itself determines the remuneration of 
the non-executive directors. The report of Directors' 
remuneration is set out on pages 11 to 13. The committee 
met once last year and the meeting was attended by 
S Newman and H Kitchner.
  The Audit Committee is chaired by S Newman and includes 
H Kitchner. The Audit Committee operates within defined 
terms of reference and is responsible for reviewing the 
integrity of information reported to shareholders, the controls 
around the development of such information and reviewing 
the scope of the external audit. The Audit Committee 
recommends the appointment of the Company's external 
auditors and their remuneration for both audit and non-audit 
work. The auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit 
Committee. The Committee met once last year and the 
meeting was attended by S Newman and H Kitchner.
  The Company does not maintain a formal Nomination 
Committee.
Information and professional development
Between formal board meetings, the non-executive director is
kept informed of major operational and strategic issues by the
Chairman and Chief Executive. The non-executive director is
encouraged to meet with members of the senior management
team and Chairman between board meetings. Each board
meeting normally includes a presentation by one of the
members of the senior management team.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary, and all directors are able to take
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the
Company's expense.
Financial reporting 
The directors acknowledge their responsibility to prepare a
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group and
Company's position and prospects. The Chairman's statement
which forms part of the annual and interim reports to shareholders
is the primary communication vehicle to all shareholders.
Going concern
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely
to affect its future development, performance and position are
set out in the Chairman's Statement on pages 2 to 3. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity
position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance
Review on pages 4 to 5. In addition, notes 1 to 26 to the financial
statements include the Group's objectives, policies and
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Corporate Governance Statement 
9 Clinical Computing Plc 
Report and Accounts 2009
Clinical computing Proof 4 27-04-10_Layout 1  10/05/2010  10:21  Page 9 The directors have reviewed the current financial resources and
the trend of maintenance revenues for its products across
different geographic areas as well as expected new business.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group has
adequate resources to manage its business risks successfully
despite the general current uncertain economic outlook.
Internal control and risk management system
The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility 
for ensuring and reviewing that the Group's system of internal
control and risk management provides reasonable assurance
regarding effective and efficient operations, internal financial
control and compliance with laws and regulations. The system
is designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk of failure to
achieve the Group's business objectives. There are inherent
limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly
even the most effective system can provide only reasonable,
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement,
losses or fraud. Steps are being taken to embed internal
control and risk management further into the operations of the
business and to deal with areas of improvement which come
to management's and the Board's attention.
Risk management Process
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. It has been
in place for the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is embedded into each Board meeting and
therefore regularly reviewed by the Board. The Board believes
that this process and review accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The key features of the internal control system that 
operated throughout the period covered by the accounts are
described below:
Evaluation of key risks
The composition of the Board and senior management team is
aimed at providing an appropriate range of knowledge, skill
and experience with respect to medical practice, software
development and commercial matters impacting the overall
environment in which the Group operates. Key risk areas are
reviewed regularly at board meetings. The following matters
received the focus of the Board during the year:
  The development processes with respect to new 
product development 
  The quality assurance testing process 
  Customer satisfaction
  Staff development, recruiting and remuneration
  Financial resources and forecasting
At each board meeting the Chief Executive Officer updates the
Board on current business matters and submits a financial
forecast and between meetings provides monthly reports to
the non-executive directors.
Control environment
The Group has developed an organisational structure with
clearly established responsibilities and lines of accountability
and procedures. The senior management team holds regular
meetings to review, document and agree its operating plan,
including the control structure and reporting process
supporting the plan. This provides a framework for the
executive directors to adjust the written policies, processes
and behaviours of staff members as may be necessary.
This process also provides the non-executive directors the
opportunity to evaluate the key risks facing the Group.
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
and up to the date of approval of the report and financial
statements that have required the Board to deal with any
related material internal control issues. 
Internal audit 
The Group does not operate an internal audit function, as 
the Board considers that the small size of the Group makes 
it unnecessary.
Auditor independence
Through its Audit Committee, the Company has reviewed a
report from its auditors, Saffery Champness, confirming in 
their professional judgement, their independence. The review
included all services provided by Saffery Champness and its
related entities. The Audit Committee concluded that there are
sufficient controls in place to ensure the continued
independence of the auditors. 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of
objectives between the Company and its institutional and
significant shareholders by making regular strategic
presentations to them and meeting to discuss long-term issues
and obtain feedback. Presentations on strategy are typically
made to the shareholders by the Chief Executive Officer.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
All shareholders have at least twenty working days' notice 
of the Annual General Meeting. There is an opportunity for
individual shareholders to question the Chairman and heads 
of committees at the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance Statement continued
10 Clinical Computing Plc
Report and Accounts 2009
Clinical computing Proof 4 27-04-10_Layout 1  10/05/2010  10:21  Page 10