 Clinical Computing Plc Report & Accounts 2010 09
Corporate Governance Statement
Board committees
The following committees, which have written terms of 
reference (which are available on our web site - www.ccl.
com or on request from the Company Secretary), deal with 
specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by  	
S Newman and includes H Kitchner. The Remuneration 
Committee operates within defined terms of reference 
and is responsible for determining contract terms, 
remuneration and other benefits for each of the 
executive directors, including performance related bonus 
schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. 
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the 
non-executive directors. The report of directors' 
remuneration is set out on pages 11 to 13. The 
committee met once last year and the meeting was 
attended by S Newman and H Kitchner.
The Audit Committee was chaired by S Newman and  	
includes H Kitchner. The Audit Committee operates 
within defined terms of reference and is responsible for 
reviewing the integrity of information reported to 
shareholders and the controls around the development 
of such information, and reviewing the scope of the 
external audit. The Audit Committee recommends the 
appointment of the Company's external auditors and 
their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work. 
The auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit 
Committee. The Committee met once last year and the 
meeting was attended by S Newman and H Kitchner.
The Company does not maintain a formal   	
Nomination Committee.
Information and professional development
Between formal Board meetings, the non-executive director 
is kept informed of major operational and strategic issues by 
the Chairman and Chief Executive. The non-executive 
director is encouraged to meet with members of the senior 
management team and Chairman between Board meetings. 
Each Board meeting normally includes a presentation by one 
of the members of the senior management team.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and all directors are able to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the 
Company's expense.
Financial reporting
The directors acknowledge their responsibility to prepare a 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group and 
Company's position and prospects. The Chairman's 
Statement which forms part of the annual and interim 
reports to shareholders is the primary communication 
vehicle to all shareholders.
Corporate Governance
Whilst the Board supports the provisions of the Code of 
Best Practice embodied in Section 1 of the Combined Code 
(2006), the size and nature of the Group does not warrant 
compliance with all of the Combined Code's requirements. 
The statements below set out how the principles are applied 
to the Group.
Board of directors
The Group is headed by the Board, which comprises the 
Non-Executive Chairman, a non-executive director and the 
Chief Executive. Biographical information on all present 
Board members is presented on page 6.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved to it for decision-making and is responsible for the 
overall strategy and direction of the Group. The Chairman is 
responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its 
effectiveness and that it operates in the interest of the 
shareholders. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for 
leadership of the business and implementation of strategy. 
The non-executive director constructively challenges and 
helps develop proposals on strategy, reviews the Chief 
Executive's performance through the Remuneration 
Committee, and ensures the integrity of financial information 
through the Audit Committee. Matters specifically reserved 
for decision by the full Board include the following material 
transactions: acquisitions and disposals, litigation, capital and 
development expenditures, financing matters and any 
transaction with a related party.
The names of the directors, their respective roles and 
committees during 2010 are detailed in the Directors' Report 
on page 7. S Newman retired from the Board at the 
Company's 2010 AGM (25 June 2010) and the Board has 
appointed Professor Gerald Musgrave as his successor and 
Professor Musgrave is seeking election at the upcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
The full Board met eight times during 2010 and all members 
of the Board attended each meeting. Three of these 
meetings took place following the retirement of S Newman.
Board balance and independence
The Board annually evaluates its balance and independence 
and considered that it met the general guidance on Board 
balance until the retirement of S Newman. As noted above 
the Company has appointed Professor Musgrave as a 
replacement to Professor Newman.
The Company will continue to evaluate the succession 
planning of the Board with respect to Code guidance and 
any other circumstances that will enhance the performance 
of the Company. Clinical Computing Plc Report & Accounts 2010 10
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Control environment
The Group has developed an organisational structure with 
clearly established responsibilities and lines of accountability 
and procedures. The senior management team holds regular 
meetings to review, document and agree its operating plan, 
including the control structure and reporting process 
supporting the plan. This provides a framework for the 
executive directors to adjust the written policies, processes 
and behaviours of staff members as may be necessary. This 
process also provides the non-executive directors the 
opportunity to evaluate the key risks facing the Group.
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 
and up to the date of approval of the report and financial 
statements that have required the Board to deal with any 
related material internal control issues.
Internal audit
The Group does not operate an internal audit function, as the 
Board considers that the small size of the Group makes  
it unnecessary.
Auditor independence
Through its Audit Committee, the Company has reviewed a 
report from its auditors, Saffery Champness, confirming in 
their professional judgement, their independence. The 
review included all services provided by Saffery Champness 
and its related entities. The Audit Committee concluded that 
there are sufficient controls in place to ensure the continued 
independence of the auditors.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of 
objectives between the Company and its institutional and 
significant shareholders by making regular strategic 
presentations to them and meeting to discuss long-term 
issues and to obtain feedback. Presentations on strategy  
are typically made to the shareholders by the Chief 
Executive Officer.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
All shareholders have at least twenty working days' notice of 
the Annual General Meeting. There is an opportunity for 
individual shareholders to question the Chairman and heads 
of committees at the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern
The Group's business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Chairman's Statement on 2 to 3. 
Additional information on going concern is provided in note 2 
including the directors conclusion on going concern.
Internal control and risk management system
The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility 
for ensuring and reviewing that the Group's system of 
internal control and risk management provides reasonable 
assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, 
internal financial control and compliance with laws and 
regulations. The system is designed to manage, rather than 
to eliminate, risk of failure to achieve the Group's business 
objectives. There are inherent limitations in any system of 
internal control. Accordingly, even the most effective system 
can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement, losses or fraud. Steps are 
being taken to embed internal control and risk management 
further into the operations of the business and to deal with 
areas of improvement which come to management's and 
the Board's attention.
Risk management process
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. It has 
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of 
approval of the annual report and financial statements. The 
process is embedded into each Board meeting and therefore 
regularly reviewed by the Board. The Board believes that this 
process and review accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The key features of the internal control system that operated 
throughout the period covered by the accounts are 
described below:
Evaluation of key risks
The composition of the Board and senior management team 
is aimed at providing an appropriate range of knowledge, 
skill and experience with respect to medical practice, 
software development and commercial matters impacting 
the overall environment in which the Group operates. Key 
risk areas are reviewed regularly at Board meetings. The 
following matters received the focus of the Board during 
the year:
The development processes with respect to new  	
product development
The quality assurance testing process  	
Customer satisfaction  	
Staff development, recruiting and remuneration  	
Financial resources and forecasting.  	
At each Board meeting the Chief Executive Officer updates 
the Board on current business matters and submits a 
financial forecast and, between meetings, provides monthly 
reports to the non-executive directors.