 The Board of Directors (the Board ) acknowledge the
importance of the Principles set out in The Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting
Council in June 2006. Although the Combined Code is not
compulsory for AIM listed companies, the Board has applied
the principles in this statement, together with the Remuneration
Report set out on page 24 as far as practicable for a public
Company of its size, as follows:
The Board of Directors
As at the date of this report the Board consists of three
executive Directors and two non-executive Directors. The 
role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are distinct. 
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board
and ensuring communication with shareholders and the Chief
Executive Officer is accountable for the management of the
Group. On 8 August Ian Lee and Geir Gunnlaugsson were
appointed as non-executive Directors. On 8 August 2007
William Thomson and Graham Lees resigned as Directors. 
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for strategy,
performance, approval of major capital investments, treasury
and financing matters and the framework of internal controls.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically
reserved to it for decision.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors
receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers 
are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules 
and regulations are complied with. On appointment of a 
new Director the Chairman ensures a full, formal and tailored
induction is provided. The appointment and removal of the
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. 
In addition, procedures are in place to enable the Directors 
to obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance 
of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of attendance 
of Directors at Board Meetings and the record of attendance
during the year ended 29 February 2008 is enclosed in figure 1.
In addition there were other meetings held to approve 
various documentation as was required during the year.
A Nominations Committee is not considered appropriate 
because of the small size of the Board and the Company but
all appointments or potential appointments are fully discussed
by all Board members.
Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at Annual
General Meetings. The Articles of Association provide that
Directors will be subject to re-election at the first opportunity
after their appointment and the Board will voluntarily submit 
to re-election at intervals of three years. Brief biographies of all
Board members, giving details of their experience are included
on page 19 allowing shareholders to take an informed decision
on those standing for election or re-election.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee during the period consisted of G Lees
(Chairman of the Audit Committee, resigned 8 August 2007) 
I Lee (Chairman of the Audit Committee, appointed 8 August
2007) and G Gunnlaugsson (appointed 8 August 2007). 
When appropriate J McColl, A Stewart, J Hall and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (external auditors) are invited 
to meetings. The Board is satisfied that at least one member 
of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial
experience. The Audit Committee meets at least three times 
a year and considers the appointment, reappointment 
and removal of the external auditors and approves their
remuneration and terms of engagement, including developing
and implementing a policy on the provision of non-audit
services by the external audit firm. It also reviews and monitors
the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. 
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance
with accounting and legal requirements and for reviewing 
the annual and interim financial statements prior to their
submission for approval by the Board. The Audit Committee
has assessed the need for an internal audit function and has
concluded that the present size and complexity of the group
does not merit such a function. Present Group financial
personnel have visited the Brazilian subsidiary company and
carried out internal audit type reviews and discussions with the
local finance team. The success and value of this exercise has
led to consideration of further similar visits to other subsidiary
companies. The situation will continue to be monitored and
further resource will be considered on a regular basis. The
Audit Committee met three times during the year ended 
29 February 2008. These meetings were attended by all
members of the Audit Committee.
22 CLYDE PROCESS SOLUTIONS PLC
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE REPORT
CPS offers a comprehensive range
of pneumatic conveying solutions,
capable of transporting a vast range
of raw materials in an enclosed,
energy efficient manner. Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee during the period consisted 
of W Thomson (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee,
resigned 8 August 2007), G Gunnlaugsson (Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee, appointed 8 August 2007) 
and I Lee (appointed 8 August 2007). The Committee's role 
is to consider and approve the remuneration and benefits 
of the Executive Directors. In the current financial year, 
the salaries of the directors were determined according to
agreements made between the Company and Clyde Blowers
Limited and benchmarking against market rates for such
positions within the industry. Details of the highest paid
director are noted on page 25 in the Remuneration Committee
Report. In framing the Company's remuneration policy, the
Remuneration Committee has given full consideration, as far
as practically possible, to Section B of The Combined Code.
The Report on Directors' Remuneration is set out on page 
25. The Remuneration Committee met once during the year
ended 29 February 2008. This meeting was attended by 
all members of the Remuneration Committee.
Internal Financial Control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the
Group's system of internal financial control and for reviewing
its effectiveness The Board places importance on maintaining
a strong control environment. The system is designed to
manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
the Group's strategic objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The key risk management process and
system of internal control procedures include the following:
> The Group's organisational structure has clear lines 
of responsibility.
> Comprehensive financial Policies and Procedures 
are being introduced across the Group.
> The Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget
that is approved by the Board. Monthly results are
reported against the budget and variances are closely
monitored by the Board.
> The Board is responsible for identifying the major
business risks faced by the Group and for determining
the appropriate courses of action to manage those risks.
> The Executive Directors hold regular meetings 
with the executive management of the Group's
subsidiary companies.
The Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal control as it operated during the year to 29 February
2008 and consider it appropriate.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. 
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate
with investors and welcomes their participation. Continuous
updates are made on the Group's website for shareholders 
to review. The Chairman aims to ensure that the Directors,
including non-executive Directors, are available at Annual
General Meetings to answer questions.
Statement by Directors on Compliance with the
Provisions of the Combined Code
The Board considers that they have complied with the
provisions of The Combined Code, as far as practicable and
appropriate for a public Company of this size, in accordance
with the recommendations on corporate governance of 
the Quoted Companies Alliance. The specific provisions 
of The Combined Code not adopted are establishment 
of a nomination committee and the related provisions of the
Combined Code pertaining to this plus A1.3, A6.1 and D1.1. 
It is the intention of the Group to consider further development
of its procedures in these areas during the forthcoming
financial year where it would be valuable to do so.
The Company takes all reasonable steps to ensure
compliance by the Directors and employees with the
provisions of the AIM Rules relating to dealing with securities
of the Company and has adopted a share dealing code 
for this purpose. This code is signed up to by all new
employees joining the Group.
Going concern
After consideration of the future and taking into account all
information available, the Board has a reasonable expectation
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
23 CLYDE PROCESS SOLUTIONS PLC
Figure 1: Board Meeting Attendance
J McColl 9
A Stewart 11
G Cavey (appointed 8 August 2007)
(resigned 3 June 2008) 6
J Hall 11
I Lee (appointed 8 August 2007) 7
G Gunnlaugsson (appointed 8 August 2007) 7
W Thomson (resigned 8 August 2007) 4
G Lees (resigned 8 August 2007) 4
Total Number of Meetings 11