 The Board of Directors (the Board ) acknowledge the importance of 
the Principles set out in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006, which is available
at www.frc.org. Although the Combined Code is not compulsory for AIM
listed companies, the Board has applied the principles in this statement,
together with the Remuneration Committee Report set out on page 22
as far as practicable for a public Company of its size, as follows:
The Board of Directors
As at the date of this report the Board consists of two executive Directors
and three non-executive Directors. The role of Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer are distinct. The Chairman is responsible for the
effectiveness of the Board and ensuring communication with shareholders
and the Chief Executive Officer is accountable for the management 
of the Group. 
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for strategy, performance,
approval of major capital investments, treasury and financing matters 
and the framework of internal controls. The Board has a formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive
appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed to 
all Directors in advance of Board meetings. All Directors have access to 
the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible 
for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules
and regulations are complied with. On appointment of a new Director 
the Chairman ensures a full, formal and tailored induction is provided. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
for the Board as a whole. In addition, procedures are in place to enable
the Directors to obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance
of their duties, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of attendance of Directors 
at Board Meetings and the record of attendance during the year ended 
28 February 2009 is as follows:
                                                                                                                             Board Meetings
J McColl                                                                                                 7
A Stewart                                                                                             12
G Cavey (resigned 3 June 2008)                                                            1
J Hall                                                                                                    12
I Lee                                                                                                     10
G Gunnlaugsson                                                                                  10
T otal Number of Meetings                                                                             12
In addition there were other meetings held to approve various
documentation as was required during the year.
A Nominations Committee is not considered appropriate because of the
small size of the Board and the Company but all appointments or potential
appointments are fully discussed by all Board members.
Directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders at Annual General
Meetings. The Articles of Association provide that Directors will be subject
to re-election at the first opportunity after their appointment and the Board
will voluntarily submit to re-election at intervals of three years. Brief
biographies of all Board members, giving details of their experience are
included on page 24 allowing shareholders to take an informed decision
on those standing for election or re-election.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee during the period consisted of I Lee (Chairman 
of the Audit Committee), G Gunnlaugsson and J McColl (appointed 
29 January 2009). When appropriate J McColl, A Stewart, J Hall and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (external auditors) are invited to attend
meetings. The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Audit
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience. The Audit
Committee meets at least three times a year and considers the
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors 
and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement, including
developing and implementing a policy on the provision of non-audit
services by the external audit firm. It also reviews and monitors the
performance, independence and objectivity of the external auditor. The
audit committee monitors fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work 
and during the year under review, the non-audit work consisted primarily 
of taxation advice. The committee believe that it is cost effective and
therefore in the best interests of shareholders for the auditors to carry 
out these services and that the nature of such work does not impair the
independence and objectivity of the auditors. The Committee is also
responsible for monitoring compliance with accounting and legal
requirements and for reviewing the annual and interim financial statements
prior to their submission for approval by the Board. The Audit Committee
has assessed the need for an internal audit function and has concluded
that the present size and complexity of the group does not merit such 
a function. Present Group financial personnel have visited the Brazilian
subsidiary company and the Chinese subsidiary company to perform
internal audit reviews and discussions with the local finance team. The
success and value of these visits has led to confirm the benefits of such
visits. The situation will continue to be monitored and further resource will
be considered on a regular basis. The Audit Committee met three times
during the year ended 28 February 2009. These meetings were attended
by all members of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee during the period consisted of G
Gunnlaugsson (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee), I Lee 
and J McColl (appointed 29 January 2009). The Committee's role is 
to consider and approve the remuneration and benefits of the Executive
Directors. In the current financial year, the salaries of the directors were
determined according to agreements made between the Company and
Clyde Blowers Limited and benchmarking against market rates for such
positions within the industry. Details of the highest paid director are noted
on page 22 in the Remuneration Committee Report. In framing the
Company's remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has 
given full consideration, as far as practically possible, to Section B of 
The Combined Code. The Report on Directors' Remuneration is set out 
on page 22. The Remuneration Committee met four times during the 
year ended 28 February 2009. These meetings were attended by all
members of the Remuneration Committee.
Corporate Governance Report
19 Internal Financial Control
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's
system of internal financial control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The
Board places importance on maintaining a strong control environment.
The system is designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve the Group's strategic objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The key risk management process and system of internal control
procedures include the following:
> The Group's organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility.
> Comprehensive financial Policies and Procedures have been
introduced across the Group.
> The Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget that is
approved by the Board. Monthly results are reported against the
budget and variances are closely monitored by the Board.
> The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks
faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate courses 
of action to manage those risks. During the year the Group has
undertaken a risk management exercise to identify the potential risks
to the Group and ways in which these risks are, or can be mitigated.
The Group now maintains a risk register as an aid to effective risk
management. This register shows details of the major risks facing 
the business, what mitigation is in place for each and the resulting
net risk. These are tabled in order of significance to the business.
> The Executive Directors hold regular meetings with the executive
management of the Group's subsidiary companies.
The Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal
control as it operated during the year to 28 February 2009 and consider 
it appropriate.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Board 
uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and
welcomes their participation. Continuous updates are made on the
Group's website for shareholders to review. The Chairman aims to 
ensure that the Directors, including non-executive Directors, are 
available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Statement by Directors on Compliance with the Provisions 
of the Combined Code
The Board considers that they have complied with the provisions of 
The Combined Code, as far as practicable and appropriate for a public
Company of this size, in accordance with the recommendations on
corporate governance of the Quoted Companies Alliance. The specific
provisions of The Combined Code not adopted are establishment of a
nomination committee and the related provisions of the Combined 
Code pertaining to this plus A1.3, A6.1 and D1.1. 
The Company takes all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the
Directors and employees with the provisions of the AIM Rules relating 
to dealing with securities of the Company and has adopted a securities
dealing code for this purpose. This code is signed up to by all new
employees joining the Group.
Going concern
After consideration of the future and taking into account all information
available, including that the facilities provided by Bank of Scotland have
been recently confirmed and new covenants agreed which provide for
increased headroom, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, it continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Report
continued
20