 Appointed: Director February 2010,  
Chairman May 2010 
Skills and experience: John's executive career was 
built in engineering companies within the Verity 
Group. John has previously served as Non-executive 
Director of Northern Rock Asset Management 
(between 2007 and 2010) and Chairman of Marconi 
plc, later renamed Telent. He was President of Perkins 
Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be 
President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive 
components manufacturer. He was subsequently 
Chief Executive of Eastern Electricity, the largest 
regional electricity company in the UK at the time. 
Following its acquisition by Hanson, he was appointed 
Executive Chairman of Hanson. John retired from his 
role as Non-executive Chairman of National Express 
Group plc on 31 January 2013.
External appointments: Non-executive Chairman  
of NATS, the National Air Traffic Services.
Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee. 
Appointed: November 2005
Skills and experience: John qualified in medicine in 
1971 and obtained a Membership (now Fellowship) of 
the Royal College of Physicians in 1974. He joined ICI 
(now AstraZeneca) in 1975 and in December 2004 was 
appointed to the main Board as Executive Director 
responsible for development. He retired as a Director  
of ICI in March 2009. He is a former President of the 
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a 
former Non-executive Director of Amersham plc and  
a former member of the supervisory Board of the UK 
Medicines Control Agency. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Ferring Holding SA.
Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Nomination Committee .
Appointed: June 2012
Skills and experience: Bob was with BAE Systems  
for 13 years from 1999, serving as a member of the 
Executive Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive 
Vice President for the global operations of the Product 
Sectors business for BAE Systems, Inc. including its 
Electronic Systems, Land & Armaments and Platform 
Solutions sectors. He has also held a number of other 
senior operational and financial roles with BAE Systems. 
Prior to this, Bob spent 18 years with General Electric 
where he held numerous financial leadership positions, 
culminating in his role as CFO of the military engines 
operation of the GE Aircraft Engines Group. Previously, 
Bob has served on the Board of Trustees for the US 
National Defense Industrial Association and the Board 
of Visitors for the Clark School of Engineering at the 
University of Maryland.
External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Executive  
Directors Committee.
Appointed: December 2010
Skills and experience: Michael worked for KPMG 
from 1973 until 2009 when he retired. Between 2005 
and 2009, he was International Chief Executive Officer, 
KPMG, Chairman, KPMG International Executive Team, 
and Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board. He was 
formerly the Prime Minister's Envoy for Reconstruction 
in Southern Iraq. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley plc 
and Senior Independent Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Intertek Group 
plc. Economic Development Adviser to the 
Government of Afghanistan.
Committee membership: Chairman of the  
Audit Committee and member of the  
Nomination Committee.
Appointed: May 2013
Skills and experience: Simon was CFO of Senior plc, 
the FTSE 250 international manufacturing group 
providing engineered products for aerospace, defence 
and commercial industrial applications, a position he 
held from 2008. Previously, Simon was CFO of Hanson 
North America and prior to that he was Financial 
Controller for Hanson plc for three years. Simon spent 
nine years with Price Waterhouse, now PwC, in the UK 
and Canada, and four years working in senior financial 
positions. Simon served as a Non-executive Director  
of AIM listed Hamworthy plc from September 201 1  
until its takeover in February 2012. Simon is a Chartered 
Accountant, holding a Bachelor of Science degree in 
Mathematics, Operational Research, Statistics and 
Economics from the University of Warwick.
External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Executive  
Directors Committee.
Appointed: January 2007
Skills and experience: Mark was, until his retirement 
at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE 
Systems plc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, 
Inc., its wholly-owned US subsidiary. Previously, he was 
Vice-President, Programme Management with Litton 
Industries and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries. 
Mark was a Non-executive Director of ATK Inc. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Beechcraft Holdings LLC. and Aeroflex Holdings,  
Inc., senior adviser of Veritas Capital LLC. and  
a management consultant.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Board of Directors
1. J Devaney
Non-executive Chairman
BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE
Age 66
4. M Wareing
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI
Age 60
2. R (Bob) Murphy
Chief Executive Officer, Executive 
Director
Age 56
5. J Patterson
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci
Age 66
3. S Nicholls
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
BSc (Hons), ACA
Age 49
6. M Ronald
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE
Age 72
Independent Directors Appointed: December 2008
Skills and experience: Mike served in the US Marine 
Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007  
as Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member  
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. His numerous military 
assignments included Commanding General, 1st Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Deputy Director of Operations  
at the US European Command and Executive Assistant 
to the Director of Central Intelligence. He also served  
in a number of diplomatic missions including the 
presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia.
External appointments: President and CEO of the 
Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, T exas, US, 
Co-Chairman of the National Security Advisory Council  
for the Center of US Global Engagement and US Global 
Leadership Campaign, Non-executive Director of SGI Corp., 
Kaseman LLC., DynCorp International Inc. and Freedom 
Group Inc., and Outside Director on the Government 
Security Committee of the Special Security Agreement  
of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees.
STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT
The section that follows on corporate 
governance is intended to give shareholders 
a clear and comprehensive picture of the 
Group's governance arrangements and how 
they operated during the year. Page 39 sets 
out details of the areas of the Board's focus 
during the year, while descriptions of how 
the Group complied with each Principle and 
Provision of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Appointed: July 2011
Skills and experience: Alison is currently engaged 
with a mix of not for profit and non-executive activities. 
She was formerly Global Director Corporate 
Development & Strategy for National Grid plc. 
Previously, she was Group Strategic Development 
Director for BAE Systems plc responsible for corporate 
strategy, mergers and acquisitions and strategic 
business development across the UK and US. She  
has held three previous Non-executive Directorships: 
BTG plc from 2004 to 2008, THUS plc from 2007  
to 2008 and GCHQ from 2009 to 2011. 
External appointments: Chairman of Aerospace, 
Aviation and Defence Knowledge Transfer Network. 
Appointed Non-executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director of e2v technologies plc,  
1 7 July 2013. Appointed Non-executive Director of 
Costain plc, 1 February 2014 and will become Chair  
of their Remuneration Committee from 1 April 2014.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Appointed: May 2013
Skills and experience: Jonathan is currently Chief 
Executive of Oxford Instruments plc, a leading provider 
of high technology tools and systems for research and 
industry, a position he has held since 2005. Prior to this, 
he was the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has 
also held management positions with BAE Systems and 
GEC Marconi Avionics. A physics graduate from Imperial 
College London, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012.
External appointments: Chief Executive of Oxford 
Instruments plc. Jonathan was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director of Andor Technology plc,  
in January 2014.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees.
Board meeting attendance for 2013
Number of meetings attended/held
J Devaney 9/9
R Murphy 9/9
S Nicholls
1
5/5
W Tucker
2
4/4
M Beresford
3
4/4
M Hagee 9/9
J Patterson 9/9
M Ronald 9/9
M Wareing
4
8/9
A Wood 9/9
D Flint
5
5/5
1
 S Nicholls appointed on 1 May 2013.
2
 W Tucker retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
3
 M Beresford retired from the Board on 25 April 2013. 
4
 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February 
meeting, which he could not attend. 
5
 D Flint appointed on 1 May 2013.
37 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
7. M Hagee
Independent Non-executive Director
Age 69
8. A Wood 
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
Age 50
9. D (Jonathan) Flint
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP
Age 53
Independent Directors continued