 The Board supports the principles of good governance. In fulfilling their responsibilities, the Directors believe that they govern the
Company in the best interests of the shareholders, whilst having due regard to the interests of other stakeholders in the Group
including, in particular, customers, employees and suppliers. Being listed on AIM, the Company is not bound by the London Stock
Exchange Listing Rules, including those relating to corporate governance. The Board is therefore providing the following
information on a voluntary basis.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Independent Non-Executive and four Executive Directors. The Chairman serves
in a part time capacity. All Directors are obliged to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years. The two
Independent Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Cliff Preddy is the current Senior
Independent Director. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant
information. They are also able to take independent professional advice as appropriate.
The Board meets at least eight times each year and has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision
by it, thus ensuring that it exercises control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. At these
meetings the Board reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, sets and monitors strategy, examines investment
and acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders. The following Committees have been established to deal
with specific aspects of the Group's affairs. 
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive Officer ( CEO'), the Group Financial Director, and the CEOs of the
CODA and SciSys Divisions. It meets regularly to discuss operational and strategic matters.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Directors and meets three times a year. 
The Group CEO, Group Financial Director and external Auditors attend by invitation. The Audit Committee advises the Board on
the appointment, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, on their remuneration both on audit and non audit work,
and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors. 
The Audit Committee reviews external audit activities, monitors compliance with statutory requirements for financial reporting and
reviews the half year and annual accounts before they are presented to the Board for approval. It is also required to review the
effectiveness of the Group's internal control systems, to review the Company's statement on internal control systems prior to
endorsement by the Board and to consider, from time to time, the need for a  risk sub-committee' to assist in monitoring the
Group's internal control systems.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Group CEO. Meetings are
arranged as necessary. The Committee is responsible for nominating candidates (both Executive and Non-Executive) for the
approval of the Board to fill vacancies or appoint additional persons to the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman, the Independent Non-Executive Directors and, by invitation, the Group
CEO. It is responsible for recommending to the Board the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for Executive Directors,
including performance related bonus schemes and participation in the Group's long term share option schemes. 
The Remuneration Report, which includes details of Directors' remuneration, pension entitlements and Directors' interests,
together with information on service contracts is set out on pages 22 to 25.
Corporate Governance
19
Corporate Governance Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control. However, such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement. In order to discharge that responsibility in a manner which ensures compliance with
laws and regulations and promotes effective and efficient operations, the Directors have established an organisation structure with
clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority. There is an established framework of internal controls
set out in procedures approved by Executive Management and readily accessible to staff, who follow their guidance. The more
important elements of this framework are as follows:
Management structure
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects
of the Group's affairs.
Corporate accounting and procedures
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate communication procedure. Accounting,
delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures, together with the general
ethos of the Group are included in these communications, and standardised accounting policies are in place reflecting this policy.
Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
Quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated
through senior members of staff.
Budgetary process
Each year the Board approves the annual budget, which includes an assessment of key risk areas. Performance is monitored and
relevant action taken throughout the year by monthly reporting to the Board of updated forecasts together with information on key
risk areas.
Investment appraisal
Capital expenditure is regulated by the use of authorisation levels. For all expenditure beyond specified levels, Board approval 
is required.
Internal monitoring 
The Audit Committee considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the Auditors. Given the
size of the Group and the close day to day control exercised by the Executive Directors and senior management, no formal
financial internal audit department is considered necessary. The Group Quality Assurance Department is responsible for
maintaining quality related certifications and defining and agreeing across all trading companies the procedures, standards and
practices to be followed on each project and in all other aspects of the Group's business.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in operation during the year through the
compliance monitoring process set out above and by reports from senior managers concerning the operations for which 
they are responsible. It must be recognised that such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance and, 
in that context, the review revealed nothing which, in the opinion of the Directors, indicates that the system was inappropriate 
or unsatisfactory.
The Board currently has in place a risk assessment committee with a remit to review the key business, operational and
compliance risks facing the Group, to prioritise their significance and determine current procedures and processes in place to
detect and address them. The findings are used to better target resources to control the main areas of risk and to improve the
process of regular reporting on controls to the Board.
Corporate Governance
continued
20
Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders
The Company seeks to maintain good communications with shareholders. The Executive Directors make presentations to
institutional shareholders covering the interim and full year results. The Company dispatches the notice of Annual General
Meetings ( AGM'), with an explanatory circular describing items of special business, at least 21 working days before the meeting.
All shareholders have the opportunity formally or informally to put questions to the Company's AGM and the Group CEO makes a
statement on current trading conditions at that meeting. The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
Committees attends the AGM and will answer questions which may be relevant to the remit of those Committees. At each AGM
the Chairman advises shareholders of the proxy voting details on each of the resolutions which are dealt with on a show of hands.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the accounts.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
Company Law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period. In preparing the accounts, the Directors are
required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
  State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the accounts
  Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
21
Corporate Governance