 15
corporate governance and statement of responsibilities
for the year ended 31 March 2003
corporate governance
The Company is committed to applying the highest principles of corporate governance commensurate with its size.
compliance
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
application of principles
The Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors
The Company supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Company. The Board is responsible for
approving Group policy and strategy. It meets at least 8 times per year and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved 
to it for decision. Management supply the Board with appropriate and timely information and the directors are free to seek any
further information they consider necessary. All directors have access to advice from the company secretary and independent
professionals at the Company's expense. Training is available for new directors and other directors as necessary.
The Board consists of three executive directors, who hold the key operational positions in the Company, and three non-
executive directors, who bring a breadth of experience and knowledge, all of whom are independent of management and any
business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. This provides a balance
whereby the Board's decision making cannot be dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the Board is D W Quysner and
the Group's day to day business is managed by G R Selvey, the chief executive. The senior independent non-executive director
is M D Greig, who chairs the audit committee. The Board members are described below.
All directors are subject to re-election every three years and, on appointment, at the first AGM after appointment. 
Appropriate training is provided for both executive and non-executive directors when they are first appointed. The Nomination
Committee meets as required to select and recommend to the Board suitable candidates for both executive and non-executive
appointments to the Board. It comprises the three non-executive directors plus G R Selvey and P L Clifford. The Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee is D W Quysner.
directors biographies
David Quysner MA (Cantab) (aged 56) Non-Executive Chairman
David Quysner worked for 3i Group plc from 1969 until 1982. He then joined Abingworth Management Limited, a venture
capital fund management company, becoming its Managing Director in 1993 and Chairman in 2002. He has been involved 
in a wide range of investment activities in the UK, continental Europe and the USA. He is a Director of a number of companies,
both public and private and is a past Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association. He has been a non-executive Director
of Comino since 1996 and was appointed Chairman in 1999.
Garth Selvey BSc (aged 54) Group Chief Executive
Garth Selvey graduated from Manchester in Physics and Electronics and has spent 30 years in the computer industry with
technical, product management and marketing roles. He became managing director of TIS Applications Limited in 1984 and 
a main board director of TIS Limited prior to its acquisition by Misys plc in 1989. He organised the management buyout of 
the social housing division of Misys and became Group chief executive of Comino in 1996.
Paul Clifford FCA (aged 51) Group Finance Director
Paul Clifford qualified as a chartered accountant with Touche Ross in 1975 and has spent 23 years in the computer industry.
Between 1980 and 1984, he was finance director, then general manager, of DCC International, a computer software company.
He was financial director of TIS Limited when it was acquired by Misys in 1989. In 1991 he co-founded BCS Computing 16 comino group plc report & accounts march 2003
corporate governance and statement of responsibilities CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Limited, a venture capital backed concern investing in computer software companies. He became Group finance director 
of Comino in 1996, prior to its flotation in 1997.
David Roots (aged 45)
David Roots has spent 20 years in the computer industry following five years in banking and accountancy. In 1984 he joined
Multisoft Systems plc as sales and marketing director, progressing to customer services director and managing director. In 1990
he founded Systems Authority Limited, a company developing software for the local government market which was acquired 
by Comino in 1993. His experience spans business systems for commercial sectors, social housing and local government. 
He was appointed to the Board in June 2001.
Michael Greig MA, MSc, FCMA (aged 46) Non-Executive Director
Mike Greig is the finance director of RM plc. He joined RM plc in 1989 as a director and is responsible for information 
systems in addition to finance. Prior to joining RM plc, he was the finance director at Case Group plc for three years. 
He has been a non-executive director of Comino since 1999.
Mark Boleat MA FCIB (aged 54) Non-Executive Director
Mark Boleat runs his own public policy consultancy and is also a non-executive director of Countryside Properties plc, the
National Consumer Council and the three life company subsidiaries of Abbey National plc. Between 1988 and 1993 he was 
a board member of the Housing Corporation and from 1993 to 1999 he was Director General of the Association of British
Insurers. He was appointed to the Board in July 2000.
Relations with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Company's strategy and performance,
Board membership and quality of management. It therefore holds regular meetings with its institutional shareholders 
to discuss objectives.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are encouraged to participate. The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions. Separate resolutions are proposed on each issue
so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to approve the annual report and accounts. The
Company counts all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been dealt with by
a show of hands.
Accountability and audit
The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and prospects in all interim and 
price-sensitive reports, reports to regulators and in the information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
The Audit Committee comprises M D Greig (Chairman) and M J Boleat who are independent non-executive directors and 
D W Quysner who is Chairman of the Board and an independent non-executive director. The terms of reference of the
Committee include keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness. The Committee
reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. This includes reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit
services supplied by the external auditors of the Group, seeking to balance objectivity and value for money.
internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and 
the Company's assets.
The directors of the Group and the operating subsidiaries have identified the Group's major risks and a risk register has been
compiled. The Board and senior management continue to monitor any factors which they believe might prove a risk to the
prospects or assets of the Group. 17
corporate governance and statement of responsibilities CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 March 2003
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the Company does not justify 
it at present. However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The directors are responsible for the Group's systems of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal
control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Group's systems of internal control are as follows:
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority
to executive management. Individuals are formally made aware of their level of authority and their budgetary responsibility
which allow the identification and monitoring of financial performance.
The Boards of the operating companies work within strict terms of reference and any matters outside those terms or the
agreed business plan are reviewed by the full Board.
Executive managers are required to produce a business plan for approval prior to the beginning of each financial year 
and detailed financial forecasts are formally compiled half yearly and reviewed by the Board. Management accounts 
are produced each month and results measured against plan to identify any significant variations.
The Board continues to review the major risks to the business. These are assessed and responsibility allocated to minimise
them and ongoing review is incorporated into the business planning process.
The Group's treasury function operates within a defined policy designed to safeguard the Group's cash.
The Group appoints experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements
Company law in the United Kingdom requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Comino Group plc website is to the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out 
by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.