 17
corporate governance and statement of responsibilities
for the year ended 31 March 2005
The Company is committed to applying the highest principles of corporate governance. 
compliance with the combined code
In July 2003  The Combined Code on Corporate Governance' was issued and it became effective for reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 November 2003. It supersedes and replaces the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued 
in 1998. In respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 the Company has complied with the requirements of Section 1 of the
revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, July 2003. 
board of directors 
The Company supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Company. The Board consists of three
executive directors, who hold the key operational positions in the Company, and three non-executive directors, who bring 
a breadth of experience and knowledge, all of whom are independent of management and any business or other relationship
which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. This provides a balance whereby the Board's decision
making cannot be dominated by an individual. The Chairman of the Board is D W Quysner and the Board delegates the
operational management of the Group to the executive directors, led by G R Selvey, the Chief Executive. The senior independent
non-executive director is M D Greig. Directors' biographies are provided on page 13. 
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. This schedule includes overall strategic objectives,
acquisition strategy, significant capital projects and risk management. Management supply the Board with appropriate and
timely information and the directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary. All directors have access
to advice from the company secretary and independent professionals at the Company's expense. 
All directors are subject to re-election every three years and, on appointment, at the first AGM after appointment. Appropriate
training is provided for both executive and non-executive directors when they are first appointed, and otherwise as necessary. 
The Board meets formally on a regular basis to review trading performance and forecasts and to approve policy and strategy. 
In the year to March 2005, the board met on eight scheduled occasions for this purpose. The attendance of individual directors
at these Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below:
Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee
attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended
D W Quysner 8/8 1/2 3/4 2/2 
G R Selvey 8/8 - - 2/2 
P L Clifford 8/8 - - 2/2 
D P Roots 7/8 - - -
M D Greig 7/8 2/2 4/4 2/2 
M J Boleat 8/8 2/2 4/4 2/2 
board effectiveness 
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance requires that the Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its performance,
its directors and its committees. A review, which was led by the Chairman, has been conducted and used a process agreed by the
Board as a whole. Each Board member provided an individual evaluation of performance against a series of criteria, and these
were then used as the basis for a collective discussion. An assessment of the effectiveness of individual members of the Board
was carried out.  18 comino group plc report & accounts march 2005
board committees 
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs: 
audit committee 
The Audit Committee comprises M D Greig (Chairman) and M J Boleat who are independent non-executive directors and 
D W Quysner who is the Chairman of the Board and an independent non-executive director. In the year to 31 March 2005, the
committee met twice with the external auditors and the Chief Executive and Finance Director attended for part of those meetings.
The terms of reference of the Committee include keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit and its cost
effectiveness. The Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. This includes reviewing the nature
and extent of non-audit services supplied by the external auditors of the Group, seeking to balance objectivity and value for money. 
remuneration committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises D W Quysner (Chairman), M J Boleat, and M D Greig who are independent non-
executive directors. None of them has any personal financial interest in the matters to be decided (other than as shareholders),
potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships nor any day-to-day involvement in running the business. The
committee is responsible for determining the remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-
related bonus schemes and share option schemes, for the executive directors. The Committee meets as required. The Committee
discusses matters with the Chief Executive and has access to professional advice.
nominations committee 
The Nominations Committee comprises D W Quysner (Chairman), M J Boleat, and M D Greig who are independent non-executive
directors together with G R Selvey and P L Clifford. The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition
of the Board and for recommending to the Board suitable candidates for both executive and non-executive appointments to the
Board. The Committee meets as required and met twice during the year ended 31 March 2005. 
relations with shareholders 
The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Company's strategy and performance. 
The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following
the announcement of the interim and preliminary results but also at other times during the year as may be suitable. The Chief
Executive and Finance Director provide feedback to the Board from these briefing meetings. The Board also receives formal
feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Company's stockbrokers. Communication with private
investors is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the Annual General Meeting. Financial and other information 
is made available on the Company's website. 
accountability and audit 
The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and prospects in all interim and
price-sensitive reports, reports to regulators and in the information required to be presented by statutory requirements. 
internal control 
The directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal
control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Combined
Code requires the directors to review, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control. A review was
undertaken during the year to 31 March 2005. 
The directors of the Group and the operating subsidiaries have identified the Group's major risks. The Board and senior
management continue to monitor any factors which they believe might prove a risk to the prospects or assets of the Group. 
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that the size of the Company does not justify 
it at present. However, it will keep the matter under annual review. 
corporate governance and statement of responsibilities CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 March 2005 19
corporate governance and statement of responsibilities CONTINUED
for the year ended 31 March 2005
The key features of the Group's system of internal control are as follows: 
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation 
of authority to executive management. Individuals are formally made aware of their level of authority and their 
budgetary responsibility which allow the identification and monitoring of financial performance. 
The Boards of the operating companies work within strict terms of reference and any matters outside those terms 
or the agreed budget are reviewed by the full Board. 
Executive managers are required to produce a budget for approval at the beginning of each financial year and detailed
financial forecasts are formally compiled half yearly and reviewed by the Board. Management accounts are produced each
month and results measured against plan to identify any significant variations. 
The Board continues to review the major risks to the business. These are assessed and responsibility allocated 
to minimise them and an ongoing review is incorporated into the business planning process. 
The Group's treasury function operates within a defined policy designed to safeguard the Group's cash. 
The Group appoints experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities. 
going concern 
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for
the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
directors' responsibilities for the financial statements 
Company law in the United Kingdom requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: 
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently 
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The maintenance and integrity of the Comino Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out 
by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.