 communisis plc corporate governance
16
Corporate Governance
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate
governance and manages the affairs of the company in
accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and the
Code of Best Practice (the  Combined Code') issued by the
Financial Services Authority as an Appendix to its Listing
Rules. The Combined Code was derived from the Cadbury,
Greenbury and Hampel Committee Reports.
Statement of compliance
The company complies and has complied in full throughout the
year with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
Principles of good governance
(A) Directors
1. The Board
The Board currently consists of two executive and four
non-executive directors and meets regularly throughout the
year. The non-executive directors provide the company with
further substantial commercial and investment experience.
Certain matters are subject to Board approval and a list of
these matters is contained in a formal schedule. Procedures are
in place to enable directors to obtain independent professional
advice, where necessary, at the company's expense and all
directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary.
2. Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly
segregated and are carried out by separate individuals. In
addition, Stuart Timperley is the Senior Independent Director
of the company.
3. Board balance
The Board has a balance of executive and non-executive
directors, and the non-executive directors continue to
represent a strong and independent element. The
non-executive directors do not participate in the company's
share option schemes except for the participation of Stuart
Wallis in the Mansfield 1999 Incentive Plan.
4. Supply of information
A pack of financial information is provided for each Board
meeting and all transactions over specified levels are presented
to the Board for approval. In addition annual budgets are
presented to the Board for discussion and approval.
5. Re-election
The company's Articles of Association provide that one-third
of the directors retire (rounded down if the number of
directors is not divisible by three) at each Annual General
Meeting. All directors, in accordance with the Combined Code,
will submit themselves for re-election at least once every
three years.
(B) Directors' remuneration
The Report by the Board on Directors' Remuneration on pages
19 to 25 sets out the principles applied by the Board in relation
to this subject. A resolution to approve this Report is included
on the agenda for the Annual General Meeting.
(C) Relations with shareholders
1. Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director meet regularly
with institutional shareholders to discuss the progress of
the group.
2. Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
The Board welcomes the attendance and questions of
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
(D) Accountability and Audit
1. Financial reporting
The Board believes that the group's accounts provide
information for shareholders in a clear and comprehensible
format and facilitate a balanced assessment of the
group's progress.
2. Internal control
Under the terms of the Combined Code, the Board is
responsible for the group's system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the group's
strategic objectives and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the group's significant risks has been established. These
procedures have been in place throughout the financial year
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. The effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice
yearly by the Board in accordance with the guidance, Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code. corporate governance report and accounts 2002
17
Principal elements of the group's system of internal controls
are:
(i) Control environment
The Board sets the overall policy for the group which includes
a well defined organisational structure with clear operating
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Control procedures exist to identify and control business risks,
safeguard the group's assets and to ensure that financial
transactions are properly recorded.
(ii) Assessment of business risk
A system of risk assessment and evaluation of controls is
embedded within the management process. Risk assessment
and evaluation takes place within each division whereby
management completes a structured review of business risks
and risks to business objectives which are evaluated in terms
of their individual significance and set out in a  risk map'.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in the
group's business environment are regularly reviewed by the
Board. Appropriate control procedures are identified for each
key risk and responsibility for control is allocated to
appropriate managers.
(iii) Monitoring process
The control procedures are regularly reviewed by executive
management. The Board, in addition to its review of internal
financial controls, regularly reviews the  risk maps' and other
reports setting out the key performance and risk indicators and
considers possible control issues brought to its attention by
these and other early warning mechanisms which are
embedded within the operations. Representations that control
procedures have been operating effectively throughout the
year are received from each business unit.
The agenda for Board meetings includes a regular item for
consideration of business risks and controls and the Board
receives regular reports which discuss how effectively control
procedures are operating. The Board uses these reports as a
basis to assess risks material to the achievement of the group's
strategic objectives.
3. Internal financial control
In addition to the general internal controls discussed above the
directors of the company acknowledge their responsibility for
the group's system of internal financial control.
The key features of the internal financial control system that
operated throughout the period covered by the accounts are
described below:
(i) Operating controls
The purposes of the key financial and operating control
procedures in place throughout the group are:
  the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or
disposition; and
  the maintenance of proper accounting records and reliable
financial information for use within the business or for
publication.
(ii) Financial reporting and information systems
There is a comprehensive budgeting and strategic review
system with an annual budget and revised forecasts for the
year which are continuously updated and compared to actual
results on a regular basis.
(iii) Functional reporting
The Board has identified specific areas and transactions which
require full Board approval. These include matters such as
acquisitions and disposals over certain pre-agreed financial
limits and the establishment of banking facilities.
(iv) Investment appraisal
The group has clearly defined guidelines for capital
expenditure. These include detailed appraisal and review
procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements.
(v) Internal audit
There is a rolling programme of internal audit reviews of
subsidiary companies which are documented and reported.
The group also has a self-assessment package, which facilitates
the measurement and appraisal of the principal financial
controls across the group.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal financial control in operation in the group. The
directors consider that there have been no material
weaknesses in internal financial control that have resulted in
any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties requiring
disclosure in the accounts.
4. Board Committees
The Audit Committee, which normally meets two or three
times a year, comprises the four non-executive directors, and
is chaired by Roger Jennings. The Committee reviews the communisis plc corporate governance
18
company's interim and annual accounts before submission to
the Board for final approval and considers any matters raised
by the auditors. The Audit Committee has specific terms of
reference which deal with its authorities and duties.
As the auditors of the company Ernst & Young LLP also
provide non-audit services to the company. The Audit
Committee keeps under review the nature and extent of such
services, in order to seek to balance the maintenance of
objectivity and value for money.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the four non-executive
directors. It is chaired by Stuart Timperley and meets as
required during the year to review and agree the terms and
conditions of employment of the executive directors, including
levels of remuneration and other benefits.
The Nominations Committee, chaired by Stuart Wallis,
comprises the four non-executive directors and meets as
required to monitor the process for appointment of additional
directors of the company.
During 2002 there were five changes to the composition of the
Board. However, the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees continue to comprise only non-executive
directors.