 21
Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Corporate Governance Report >
For the year ended 31 December 2008
AIM listed companies are not required to comply with the disclosure requirements of the New Combined Code on Corporate Governance. 
However, the Board supports the principles contained in the New Combined Code and is committed to applying the principles set out therein 
where they are appropriate, given the Company's size. The following provides information on how these principles have been applied but does 
not constitute full compliance with the New Combined Code. 
Board of Directors
The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors which comprises three Executive and three Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and meets formally at least every two months to set the 
overall direction and strategy of the Group, to review financial and operating performance and to advise on senior management appointments. 
Financial policy and budgets, including capital expenditure, are approved and monitored by the Board. All key operational decisions are subject 
to Board approval. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and 
regulations are complied with.
Different Directors hold the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities between them. Individual 
Directors possess a wide variety of skills and experience; biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 16.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management. The Board considers that the Non-Executive 
Directors are of sufficient calibre and number to bring the strength of independence to the Board. The terms and conditions of appointment of 
Non-Executive Directors are available on request.
The Board believes that given its size and constitution it is not appropriate to specify a  senior' Non-Executive Director.
During the year, there have been 10 main Board meetings. The schedule on the following page gives attendance and non-attendance by Board 
members for meetings throughout the year.
All Board members receive monthly management accounts and regular management reports enabling them to review the Group's performance 
against agreed objectives. Regular reports and papers are circulated to Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee 
meetings. This information includes that specifically requested by the Non-Executive Directors from time to time.
Board evaluation
The Board is mindful of the requirement to undertake an annual evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual 
Directors. It is the intention of the Board to adopt the following procedures in order to conduct performance evaluation.
The performance of the Board, its committees, the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors will be evaluated by the Chairman on an 
ongoing basis.
Re-election
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and a third are subject to re-election at each 
Annual General Meeting.
Committees of the Board
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors; Dr C Hand (Chairman) and J Corsellis. It overviews the monitoring of the Group's 
internal controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and provides a forum through which the external auditors report. It also reviews the 
scope and results of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditors and makes recommendations to the Board on 
issues surrounding their remuneration, appointment, resignation or removal. The Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee has sufficient 
financial knowledge and experience. The Audit Committee should meet at least twice a year with the external auditors. 
During the year there have been three Audit Committee meetings. The meetings were attended by both Committee members. 
Terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available on request. These include definition of its role and the authority delegated to it by  
the Board.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, J Corsellis (Chairman) and V Murria. The Committee reviews, inter alia, 
the performance of the Executive Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and the basis of their service agreements with 
due regard to the interests of the shareholders. The Remuneration Committee also makes recommendations to the Executive Directors 
concerning the allocation of share options to employees. The Committee should meet at least twice a year.
During the year, there have been two Remuneration Committee meetings. The meetings were attended by both Committee members at the time. 
It is a policy of the Remuneration Committee that no individual participates in discussions or decisions concerning his own remuneration.
Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee explain its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board. These are available on request. Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 22
The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out on pages 24 and 25.
A summary of meeting attendances by the Board of Directors and its Committees is given below.
       Main Audit Remuneration  
       Board Committee Committee AGM
Executive Directors   
K Tozzi       10/10 - - 1/1
F Begley       10/10 - - 1/1
N Elton       10/10 - - 1/1
Non-Executive Directors
J Corsellis       8/10 3/3 2/2 1/1
C Hand       10/10 3/3 - 1/1
V Murria       10/10 - 2/2 1/1
Internal control
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide them with reasonable 
assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded and that the shareholders' investments are protected. The system includes internal 
controls covering financial, operational and compliance areas, and risk management. There are limitations in any system of internal control, 
which can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance with respect to the preparation of financial information, the safeguarding of assets 
and the possibility of material misstatement or loss.
The Board has considered and reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. An assessment of the major risk areas for the 
business and methods used to monitor and control them was also considered. During the year under review, a number of key controls have 
been improved and integrated across the business. In addition to financial risk, the review covered operational, commercial, environmental, 
regulatory, and research and development risks. The risk review is an ongoing process with regular review by the Board at least annually. 
The key procedures designed to provide an effective system of internal control that have operated throughout the year and up to the date of the 
sign-off of this report are described below:
Control environment
The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure. Managers of operating units assume responsibility for, and exercise a high degree of 
autonomy in, running day-to-day trading activities. Employees are required to follow clearly laid out internal procedures and policies appropriate 
to the business and their position within the business.
Risk management
The Group employs Directors and senior executives with the appropriate knowledge and experience for the Company. A formal risk 
management review is performed annually as part of the process of determining the Group's system of internal controls and risk  
mitigation procedures. 
Risk procedures are carried out via the centralised Quality Assurance system. Each business within the Group currently holds separate 
certification and/or accreditation:
ISO 13485 - Medical Devices:  	
o Cozart.
o Spinreact.
ISO9001 - Quality Management System:  	
o Medscreen.
o Euromed.
o Spinreact.
o Cozart.
Cozart ISO 17025 - Testing and Calibration Laboratories:  	
o Medscreen.
o Altrix.
o TrichoTech.
o Cozart.
There is a dedicated Quality Manager at each site responsible for the day-to-day activities required to maintain certification/accreditation, and  
to report and escalate any issues that are identified. This provides an early warning system and ensures swift and effective corrective and 
preventative action.
The Group Quality Manager, based at Abingdon, oversees all activities and produces a weekly and monthly report for the Chief Operating 
Officer. These reports are discussed monthly at the Group Operational Executive and a monthly report is sent to the main Board. A single 
Quality System continues to be implemented ensuring that best practice is migrated across the Group.
Corporate Governance Report  > continued
For the year ended 31 December 2008 23
Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Financial information 
The Group prepares detailed budgets and cash flow projections, which are approved annually by the Board and updated regularly throughout 
the year. Detailed management accounts and working capital cash flow projections are prepared on a monthly basis and compared to budgets 
and projections to identify any significant variances.
Management of liquid resources
The Board is risk adverse when investing the Group's surplus cash funds. The Executive Directors monitor the Group's cash position on a 
weekly basis. The Group's treasury management policy is reviewed annually and sets out strict procedures and limits on how surplus funds  
are invested.
Internal audit
The Board has considered it inappropriate to establish a formal internal audit function during the year, given the size of the Group. Although 
there has been no formal internal audit function, financial reviews have been performed between Group companies on a regular basis and work 
is under way to formalise this process more over the coming year.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with both institutional and private shareholders. In fulfilment of the Chairman's 
obligations under the new Combined Code, the Chairman gives feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders. 
Regular communication is maintained with all shareholders through Company announcements, the Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
Preliminary Results and the Interim Report. 
All shareholders are sent copies of the Interim and Annual Reports and are given notice to enable them to attend the Company's Annual 
General Meeting and any Extraordinary General Meeting. Shareholders whose shares are held by nominees may receive the information on 
request. The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all Directors, and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting 
and to meet with Directors after formal proceedings.
In addition, the Company operates a website: www.concateno.com. It contains information on the Group and its activities, press releases and 
regulatory announcements, Annual Financial Statements and Interim Statements, and details of the Company's share price. 