 13
Corporate Governance Statement
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Company's 
shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance 
are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance and the Guidelines on Audit Committees, together  the Code'. The Company has been in full 
compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Code other than as noted below.
The Board
The Board's role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board reviews the Company's strategic objectives and looks 
to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve these objectives. The Board also sets 
the Company's values and standards and manages the business in a manner to meet its obligations to shareholders.
The Board currently comprises the Non-executive Chairman, two Non-executive Directors, the Managing Director, the 
Finance Director, the Sales Director and the Production Director. All of these possess a range of experience and sufficient 
calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is 
vital for the success of the Company. The Board are satisfied that the Non-executive Directors are independent in character 
and judgement. It recognises that less than half of the Board comprise of independent Non-executive Directors but regards 
this as sufficient in view of its overall size and business position. The Board are also aware that certain Non-executive 
Directors have served for a period longer than 6 years but considers that their knowledge and leadership are of greater 
benefit to its shareholders. All Non-executive Directors stand for re-election at the Company's AGMs.
The roles of the Non-executive Chairman and Managing Director are clearly defined. The Chairman is responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and the Managing Director is responsible for the strategic direction and operational management of 
the Company. The Chairman ensures that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Board meets on a regular basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consideration. This 
includes approval of the annual budget, approval of the interim and year-end report and accounts, review and authorisation 
of significant capital expenditure, and approval of financing arrangements. Operational management are responsible for the 
day to day running of the Company and report on a regular basis on that performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Company and has access to the necessary 
information in order to discharge its duties. All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after 
their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
The Non-executive Directors have on-going dialogue with executive Directors with constructive challenges of performance 
and the Company's strategy. The Non-executive Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow them to monitor, 
assess and challenge the executive management of the Company. They meet regularly as a group and maintain contact 
without the executives present. Board papers are circulated to all Directors.
All Directors have access to advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for the 
Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive training if necessary as to their role and requirements.
During the year the Board met ten times and all Directors attended the full complement, apart from two absences due to prior 
engagements. 
The Board does not undertake formal annual evaluation processes to evaluate its performance, the performance of the 
committees, or the performance of its individual Directors. This was because the Board believed informal reviews to be 
more beneficial and a review of individual performances is considered as part of the annual remuneration review process. 
The Board recognises the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board. Directors are 
given the opportunity to attend relevant training courses and to acquire skills and experience which may enhance their 
contribution to the on-going progress of the Company.
page thirteen 14
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Non-executive Directors together with the Managing Director. There was full 
attendance at the two meetings during the year. The Committee is responsible for determining the Company's policy for the 
remuneration of the executive Directors. It regularly considers the compensation commitments of its Directors in the event 
of early termination of their service contracts.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Non-executive Directors together with the Managing Director. The Committee is 
chaired by Geoffrey Piper. It met only once in the year with full attendance. The responsibility of the Committee is to recommend to 
the Board the appointment or replacement of additional Directors. It is also responsible for succession planning for the Company.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of the Non-executive Directors. The Committee is chaired by Geoffrey Piper. It meets on a 
regular basis under its terms of reference with the Finance Director and external auditors to review the financial statements 
and external financial announcements made by the Company. It has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditor's independence and objectivity, and reviews supplies of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors to 
ensure that independence and objectivity are not compromised. The Audit Committee met three times during the year and 
was attended by all required Directors. 
All of the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and Audit Committee were accepted.
Internal Control   
The Board is responsible for the Company's system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. In accordance with the guidance for Directors in the Turnbull Report, the Board has ensured that there is an 
ongoing process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by the Company. This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction 
with business planning. Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the system of internal controls, the Board is aware 
that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has established procedures which have been developed over a number of years which meet the requirements 
of the Turnbull Guidance. A key control procedure is the daily involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects 
of the business and the attendance at management meetings where performance is reviewed against the business plan. The 
internal controls are considered appropriate for a company of this size. The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the internal controls. No internal audit function is considered necessary due to the size of the business. To manage the 
risks facing the Company management have installed a risk management programme. This programme places responsibility 
on managers to identify risks facing the business units and for implementing procedures to mitigate these risks.
The Combined Code states that the Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial or other matters. Procedures are in place to enable 
concerns to be raised without concern of victimisation or disciplinary action.
Monthly financial reporting
The Company performs an annual strategy and budgeting process, and the Board approved the annual Company budget as 
part of its normal responsibilities. The Company reports its results monthly with comparisons to budget. Revised forecasts 
for the year are produced for the Board whenever significant financial trends are identified.
Going Concern
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Board have considered the business 
activities as set out in the Operating Review and the Financial Review as well as the Company's principal risks and 
uncertainties as set out in the Corporate Governance Statement. Based on the Company's cash flow forecasts and 
projections, the Board is satisfied that the Company will be able to operate within the level of it's facilities for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason the Company continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing it's financial statements.
By order of the Board
Stephen Fletcher
Company Secretary  
5 August 2011
Corporate Governance Statement 
continued
page fourteen