 Corin Group PLC
Annual Report 2004
20
Corporate governance
Compliance with the Combined Code
Corin is committed to high standards of corporate governance. Throughout the year the Group complied with the code of 
best practice, including the principles of good governance, published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council, which 
is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, except to the extent set out below. 
The directors confirm that the Group has been in full compliance with the main and supporting principles of the 2003 Combined
Code for the year ended 31 December 2004, with the exception of:
  The two independent non-executive directors make up the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee; however
Provisions B.2.1 and C.3.1 require that the Remuneration and Audit Committees comprise of at least three non-executive
directors. Given the size of the Group, the Board considers that the current arrangements are appropriate.
  During the year the audit committee reviewed the arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters however this was not formally
documented. Since the year end the policy has been formalised and approved by the Board. The staff handbook is currently
being updated for this policy.
Application of principles of good governance
The Board and its committees
The Board currently comprises an independent non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and a senior independent
non-executive director. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. All directors
are subject to re-election every three years.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and for the Group's system of corporate
governance. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and a statement on going
concern are given in the Report of the Directors.
The Board meets formally every month to review trading performance, forecasts and strategy, and to consider possible
acquisitions and reporting to shareholders. The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
All directors attended each Board meeting throughout the year. The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility 
to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered. T o enable the Board to discharge 
its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary and are entitled to take independent professional advice. 
The following formally constituted committees support the Board, dealing with specific aspects of the Group's affairs in
accordance with written terms of reference:
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by W S C Richards. Its other member is G M Hart. Meetings
are held at least once a year and are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director. Both
members attended the meeting held in 2004. The committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the
Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board. 
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by G M Hart. Its other member is W S C Richards.
Meetings are held at least twice a year and are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive and Finance Director. Both
members attended each meeting throughout the year. It is responsible for the Group's framework of executive remuneration
and its cost. The committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for the executive directors,
including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments. The Board itself determines the
remuneration of the non-executive directors. Further details of the Group's policies on remuneration, service contracts and
compensation payments are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by W S C Richards. Its other member is G M Hart. The committee provides
a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are held at least twice a year and are also attended, by
invitation, by the Chief Executive and Finance Director. All members attended each meeting throughout the year. The audit
committee is responsible for reviewing a range of matters including the half-year and annual financial statements before their
submission to the Board and monitoring the controls, which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information, reported 
to the shareholders. The committee discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The audit committee advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and on
their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work. During the year the committee approved, monitored and subsequently
reviewed the assurance work carried out by BDO Stoy Hayward LLP in order to ensure objectivity and independence were
maintained throughout. 21
Performance evaluation
The nomination committee met during the year to appraise the performance of the Board and its Committees and to make
recommendations to the Board. The Chairman appraised the performance of the individual Board members in conjunction
with the Chief Executive Officer where appropriate. These appraisals had regard to the issue raised in the Performance
Evaluation Guidance contained in the Higgs Report suggestions for good practice.
Relations with shareholders
The Group values the views of shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and performance. The
Operating and Financial Review includes a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular
dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Group's preliminary announcement of the year 
end results and at the half year. The Group also has an Investor Relations area on its website, www.coringroup.com, on
which financial and other information is available and regularly updated.
All shareholders are welcomed to the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will be available to answer questions 
from both private and institutional investors. As in previous years, proxy votes for and against each resolution proposed 
at the meeting will be announced.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining the Group's system of internal control and it confirms that there is an ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board further confirms that it
has reviewed Corin's system of internal control for effectiveness. It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure in order to achieve the Group's strategic objectives, and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The system has been in place for the full year
under review and up to the date of review of the financial statements.
The Board's policy is to have systems in place within the Group that optimise the Group's ability to manage risk in an
effective and appropriate manner. The Board has delegated to the executive directors responsibility for identifying, evaluating
and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed. Monthly management meetings
provide a forum for the discussion and escalation of any material internal control issues or any significant new risks identified.
The Board is updated regularly throughout the year and reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control on an
ongoing basis by: 
  Reviewing detailed budgets for the year ahead along with the five-year rolling plan and capital expenditure approval
procedure and authorisation levels. Central to this exercise is a review of the commercial and financial risks and
opportunities facing the Group. Particular focus is given to the consideration of the risks unique to each newly formed
direct sales operation and to potential candidates for the direct sales strategy.
  Reviewing, on a regular basis, operational performance against the budget for the current year and against prior year
performance. The Board initiates action plans, if necessary, to optimise operational and financial performance.
  Retaining primary responsibility for acquisition policy and research and development programmes and all associated
commercial, legal and financial due diligence work. Below Board level there are clearly defined management 
authorities for the approval of capital expenditure that is controlled through the budgetary process and subject to 
strict authorisation levels.
Corporate risk management policy and strategy is the responsibility of the Board and is reviewed and updated regularly
throughout the year. Corin's Code of Conduct policy statement was introduced during 2003 in response to an internal
operational risk project and management of health and safety issues continues to be a priority for the Group. Commercial
risk is a familiar consideration at the monthly International management meetings in the context of Corin's expanding
worldwide network of distributors and direct sales operations.
The audit committee considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors.
Corin does not have a dedicated internal audit function, although internal audits are carried out under the Group's ISO 9001
accredited quality assurance process. The Board considers that the current arrangements are adequate at this stage of the
Group's development. The Board will continue to assess the need for an internal audit function on an annual basis.
On behalf of the Board
S J Hartley
Finance Director and Company Secretary
8 April 2005