 27
Corporate 
governance 
Compliance with the Combined Code
Corin is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group has been in 
compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code.
Application of principles of good governance
The Board and its committees
The Board currently comprises an independent non-executive chairman, two independent non-executive directors and two executive 
directors.  L Wilding is the senior independent non-executive director.  S J Hartley resigned from the board as Finance Director and 
Company Secretary on 12 February 2009.  M R D Roller was appointed as Finance Director and Company Secretary on 2 March 2009.  
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.  All directors are subject to re-election 
every three years.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and for the Group's system of corporate governance.  A 
statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and a statement on going concern are given in the Report of 
the Directors.
The Board met formally on seven occasions during 2009 to review trading performance, forecasts and strategy, and to consider possible 
acquisitions and reporting to shareholders.  The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.  All directors 
attended each Board meeting throughout the year.  M R D Roller attended all of the meetings held after his appointment.  The non-
executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.  To 
enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary and are entitled to take independent professional advice.
The following formally constituted committees support the Board, dealing with specific aspects of the Group's affairs in accordance with 
written terms of reference that are available at the Group's registered office:
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by G M Hart.  Its other members are L Wilding and D Young.  Meetings are 
held at least once a year and are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director.  All members attended the 
meeting held in 2009.  The committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance 
and structure of the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by D Young.  Its other members are G M Hart and L Wilding.  Meetings 
are held at least twice a year and are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director.  All members 
attended each meeting during the year.  It is responsible for the Group's framework of executive remuneration and its cost.  The committee 
determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for the executive directors, including performance related bonus schemes, 
pension rights and compensation payments.  The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.  Further details 
of the Group's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report. Corin Group PLC
Annual Report 2009
28
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by L Wilding.  Its other members are G M Hart and D Young.  The committee provides 
a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors.  Meetings are held at least twice a year and are also attended, by invitation, by the 
Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director.  All members attended each meeting during the year.  The audit committee is responsible for 
reviewing a range of matters including the half year and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring the 
controls, which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information, reported to the shareholders.  The committee discusses the nature, 
scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and on their 
remuneration both for audit and non-audit work.  During the year the committee approved, monitored and subsequently reviewed the 
assurance work carried out by BDO LLP in order to ensure objectivity and independence were maintained throughout.
Performance evaluation
The Nomination Committee met during the year to appraise the performance of the Board and its Committees and to make 
recommendations to the Board.  The Chairman appraised the performance of the individual Board members.  The Chairman was appraised 
by the Senior Non-executive Director.  These appraisals had regard to the issues raised in the Performance Evaluation Guidance contained 
in the Higgs Report suggestions for good practice.
Relations with shareholders
The Group values the views of shareholders and recognises their interest in the Group's strategy and performance.  The operating and 
financial review includes a detailed review of the business and future developments.  There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 
including presentations after the Group's preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.  The Group also has an 
investor relations area on its website, www.coringroup.com, on which financial and other information is available and regularly updated.
All shareholders are welcomed to the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will be available to answer questions from both private 
and institutional investors.  As in previous years, proxy votes for and against each resolution proposed at the meeting will be announced.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining the Group's system of internal control and it confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.  The Board further confirms that it has reviewed the Group's 
system of internal control for effectiveness.  It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure in order to achieve the Group's strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.  The system has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of review of the financial 
statements.
The Board's policy is to have systems in place within the Group that optimise the Group's ability to manage risk in an effective and 
appropriate manner.  The Board has delegated to the executive directors responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks 
facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed.  Monthly management meetings provide a forum for the discussion and 
escalation of any material internal control issues or any significant new risks identified.  The Board is updated regularly throughout the year 
and reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control on an ongoing basis by: 
  Reviewing detailed budgets for the year ahead along with capital expenditure approval procedure and authorisation levels.  Central 
to this exercise is a review of the commercial and financial risks and opportunities facing the Group.  Particular focus is given to the 
consideration of the risks unique to each overseas direct sales operation. 
Corporate 
governance 
continued 29
  Reviewing, on a regular basis, operational performance against the budget for the current year and against prior year performance.  
The Board initiates action plans, if necessary, to optimise operational and financial performance.
  Retaining primary responsibility for acquisition policy and research and development programmes and all associated commercial, 
legal and financial due diligence work.  Below Board level there are clearly defined management authorities for the approval of capital 
expenditure that is controlled through the budgetary process and subject to strict authorisation levels.
Corporate risk management policy and strategy is the responsibility of the Board and is reviewed and updated regularly throughout the year.   
Corin's Code of Conduct policy statement was introduced during 2003 in response to an internal operational risk project and management 
of health and safety issues continues to be a priority for the Group.  Commercial risk is a familiar consideration at the monthly international 
management reviews in the context of Corin's expanding worldwide network of distributors and direct sales operations.
The Audit Committee considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors.  Corin 
does not have a dedicated internal audit function, although internal audits are carried out under the Group's ISO 9001 accredited quality 
assurance process.  The Board considers that the current arrangements are adequate at this stage of the Group's development.  The Board 
will continue to assess the need for an internal audit function on an annual basis.
On behalf of the Board
P W Huntley
Chief Executive Officer
02 March 2010