 Statement of compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code The Group has complied fully with the Code
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code during 2002,
except where indicated in this statement. Following the departures 
of Michael Davies and Peter Owen in September 2002, the roles 
of Chairman and Chief Executive have been combined with 
Julian Treger's appointment as Executive Chairman. The Board 
has addressed this exception to the Combined Code with the
appointment of Mark Adams as Chief Operating Officer in 
January 2003. Mr Adams has the responsibility for the day to day
operations of the Group while Mr Treger retains responsibility 
for the strategic direction and policy of the Group. The Board 
has also been strengthened with the appointment of a fourth 
non-executive Director and the creation of a committee on conflicts
as discussed below.
Further explanation of how the principles are applied is set out
below and, in connection with Directors' remuneration, in the
Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Application of Code principles
Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the
management of the Group's business, for Group strategy, reviewing
trading performance, ensuring adequate funding and reporting 
to the shareholders. The Board meets when required, normally
monthly, and the agenda for the Board meetings incorporates 
a consistent format of matters reserved for its decision. 
The Board comprises the Executive Chairman, two other executive
Directors and four independent non-executive Directors. Mr Avenel
is the senior independent Director and upon his retirement will be
succeeded by Lord Blackwell. The Board considers that the non-
executive Directors bring a wide range of business and financial
experience to the Group. All Directors are subject to election by
shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to
re-election at least every three years.
As a result of Mr Treger's relationship with the Active Value Funds
and their significant shareholding in the Company, the Board 
has established procedures intended to manage issues involving
potential conflicts of interest. On 19 September 2002, following 
the appointment of Mr Treger as non-executive Chairman of the
Company, the Board established a committee comprising of 
the non-executive Directors excluding Mr Treger and chaired by
Lord Blackwell to consider any issues that are referred to it that may
involve a conflict for any Director and/or their connected persons
and/or major shareholders and take decisions on behalf of the
Board in connection with conflict issues. The Company intends that
this committee remains in place on an ongoing basis to consider
and deal with conflict issues as and when they arise. Mr Treger, 
in his capacity as a Director of the Company, will inform the
committee of any matter in connection with which a conflict 
may arise.
The Company is satisfied that it is capable of carrying on its
business independently of the Active Value Funds and that all
transactions and relationships between the Company and the
Active Value Funds and any of their associates will be at all times 
at arm's length and on a normal commercial basis. 
The Directors are provided with the opportunity to receive
appropriate training. The Company Secretary, Mr Martin, is
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and
that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition,
procedures are in place for Directors to seek both independent
advice and the services of the Company Secretary. The appointment
of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. 
Audit Committee The Group has an Audit Committee whose
responsibilities include oversight of the Group's internal audit
strategy, the review of reports from the Auditors, examining the
standards of accounting and reviewing the effectiveness of the
Group's financial control systems. The Committee also reviews the
cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external
Auditors and the nature of non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and is 
chaired by Mr Button. Its other members during 2002 were 
Mr Avenel, Mr Davies (until 11 September 2002) and Lord
Blackwell. Meetings have been attended on invitation by the Group
Finance Director and the former Group Chief Executive. The Group's
external Auditors have attended all the Audit Committee meetings
throughout the period.
Remuneration Committee Mr Avenel chairs the Group's
Remuneration Committee and its other members during 2002 
were Mr Button, Mr Davies (until 11 September 2002) and Lord
Blackwell. The Committee meets at least three times a year. 
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board within
agreed terms of reference on the Group's policy on executive
Directors' remuneration including performance-related
remuneration. The Committee has access to professional advice
from both inside and outside the Group. In developing its
remuneration policy the Committee followed Schedule A to the
Code. The Report of the Remuneration Committee on behalf of 
the Board is set out on pages 11 to 13.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee was 
chaired during 2002 by Mr Avenel and consisted of him, Mr Davies
(until 11 September 2002), Mr Button and Lord Blackwell. 
The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for
appointment to the Board having regard to the balance and
structure of the Board.
Dialogue with shareholders The Directors have established a
mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its
institutional shareholders by making presentations to institutional
investors and communicating regularly with such shareholders
throughout the year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with
private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Internal Control The Directors have responsibility for the Group's
system of internal control. In recognition of that responsibility the
Directors set policies and require regular assurance that the internal
controls are operating effectively. As a result of the major changes
to the Board in the last few months, the Board has decided to defer
its annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal
controls. A full review will be undertaken and is expected to be
completed by July. At this time a report will be given to the Board
and the Audit Committee and a formal review of the effectiveness
of internal controls undertaken. The Directors recognise that the
inherent limitations in any system of internal control mean that the
system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance
against material financial misstatement or loss.
09 Corporate Services Group 
Corporate governance statement The key elements of the system comprise:
- Assessment and management of risks The Board ensures that
a regular assessment of strategic and operational risks is undertaken
by management and that decisions are made as to the most
appropriate method of managing them. This may include regular
monitoring, investment in further resources, insurance and
contingency planning. This process, which is in accordance with 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, has
been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 
and subsequently.
- Maintaining an appropriate control environment The
Directors have established an organisation structure with clear
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The Directors have delegated to executive management the
establishment and implementation of control systems appropriate
to the various businesses. Internal and external audit, as well as a
programme of regular reviews by the executive management,
provides assurance that the control environment is operating as
intended. Operating divisions are required to prepare and regularly
update business plans and agree strategy with the Board. 
- Financial reporting system The Group has established a
comprehensive system for reporting financial information to the
Directors. The principal elements of this include a formal review by
the Directors of detailed budgets, quarterly forecasts, monthly
management accounts and regular and detailed cash flow
forecasting and reporting.
Directors' responsibilities
Accounts, including adoption of going concern basis Company
law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial
year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that
period. In preparing these accounts, the Directors consider that they
have selected suitable accounting policies and applied them
consistently, made judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent and have followed applicable accounting standards. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure
that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
10 Corporate Services Group 
Corporate governance statement