 This Report explains the Board' s application of the Principles of Good Governance contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance published in June 1998 and also the New Code published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company has introduced a number of new procedures to comply with the New Combined Code during the year and
therefore some of these were not in place for the full year reported upon. The New Code provisions apply to years beginning 
on or after 1 November 2003 and consequently the first year for which the Company is required to be compliant is the year 
to October 2005. In this report the Board has adopted the  comply or explain' principle introduced by the Cadbury Report and
reinforced by Higgs, and explains where the Group does not fully comply with the recommendations, giving reasons for such
non-compliance.
The Board
The Board consists of four executive and four non executive Directors and the role of Chairman and Group Managing Director 
are clearly defined and separate. Mr Dean is the senior independent non executive Director.
In accordance with the Articles of Association one third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year. In addition any
Director appointed during the year will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting. Two of the non executive Directors,
namely David Bolton and John Kelly, will be standing for re-election on an annual basis to comply with the revised Combined Code
as they have both been members of the Board for over nine years. The Board recommends shareholders to vote in favour of both
Mr Bolton's and Mr Kelly's re-election as they continue to provide valuable experience and insight for the benefit of the Company,
particularly from their own areas of expertise. As a result of the formal evaluation procedure undertaken this year the Board is of
the view that both Directors remain effective and committed to their roles on the Board and its Committees. The Directors are of the
view that both Mr Bolton and Mr Kelly continue to be independent notwithstanding their service of more than nine years as they
have no business or other relationship with the company or management which in any way affects their independence and
they remain robustly independent of thought, expression and judgment. The Board also considers Mr Hobdey and Mr Dean 
to be independent.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and for the Group's system of corporate
governance. It reviews trading performance forecasts and strategy and agrees future plans. The non executive Chairman, 
David Bolton, is responsible for the running of the Board. Executive responsibility for the running of the Company's business 
rests with the four executive directors, Bill Wood, Neil Carrick, Peter Nevitt and Winston Phillips. The Directors are provided 
with regular information on the Company's performance and activities and meet on a monthly basis. Meetings include a formal
schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board's decision and additional meetings are arranged as necessary. The Board
met fourteen times during the year and all of the meetings were attended by all Directors, with the exception of James Dean who
did not attend three meetings and Messrs Bolton, Kelly, Nevitt, Hobdey and Phillips who did not attend two meetings. Mr Phillips
joined the Board on 2 February 2004 and consequently was not at the first two meetings for the year. The non executive Directors
periodically visit different parts of the Group and meet the local management. Through this procedure the Board is able to retain
full control of the Group, determining strategy and monitoring performance of objectives and compliance with policies. Directors
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice if necessary, 
at the Company's expense. Appropriate training is available for all Directors as required. Executive and non executive Directors 
are formally appointed by the Board as a whole. Whilst non executive Directors are not appointed for a specific term, their 
re-election is, along with all other Directors, submitted to the shareholders in General Meeting on a rotational basis at least once
every three years and at the first opportunity after their initial appointment. Non executive Directors do not benefit from share
options or pension provisions.
Board evaluation
The Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors during the year .
This evaluation will now be carried out on an annual basis. The evaluation consisted of questionnaires, the results of which were
debated by the full Board led by the Chairman. All Directors, excluding the Chairman, took part in the evaluation of the Chairman.
All necessary actions are being implemented following the Board appraisal of the review findings. 
Board Committees
The Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board are chaired by Mr Kelly and are constituted by the four 
non executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference and its main responsibilities are to review the financial statements integrity
and announcements relating to the Group's performance and review the scope and findings of the Group's external Auditors and
the Group's accounting controls and procedures through regular monitoring and a programme of internal audit reviews of controls
of operating units. 
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external
auditor. During the financial year the Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the audit
strategy proposed by KPMG Audit Plc.
Cosalt:plc 
Report and accounts 2004
20 Corporate governance Cosalt:plc 
Report and accounts 2004
21
The Committee has met with the external auditors to review their independence procedures and received a letter from KPMG Audit
Plc confirming that, in their opinion, they remained independent. The Committee has also reviewed the expertise, resources and
qualifications of the external auditor and approved the proposed audit fee for the 2004 audit. The Committee has recommended 
to the Board that it propose to shareholders that KPMG Audit Plc continue as the Company's external auditor and a resolution 
to that effect is included in the notice of meeting for this year's Annual General Meeting. The Committee met prior to the Board
Meeting at which the interim financial statements and the annual report and accounts were approved. The Committee considered
reports from the external auditor, the internal audit function and the status of the Group's risk management and reporting
processes in addition to the accounting policies and financial reporting issues and judgments.
The Committee is also charged with reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible
issues or improprieties with regard to financial reporting and in this regard the head of the Internal Audit function reports directly 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee met three times during the year and the meetings were attended by all of the members of the Committee
except that Mr Hobdey was unable to attend one meeting and Mr Dean two meetings. All members were provided with
reports in advance on which they were able to ask questions before the meeting. In addition the Chairman has met separately
with the audit director of KPMG Audit Plc responsible for signing the audit opinion on a number of occasions during the year.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of Parent Board Directors and Senior Executives and makes
recommendations to the Main Board in connection with the Executive Share Option Schemes. The Remuneration Report is 
set out on pages 16 to 19.
Internal controls
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate risks and therefore can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Group has formally implemented a process to identify, evaluate and manage the Group's significant risks. The principal
elements of the internal control system which were in force throughout the period covered by the financial statements and to 
the date of signing the accounts are described below.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure where operating and restricted financial responsibility is clearly delegated 
to the divisional management. This allows the Group to obtain maximum benefit from their skill in the relevant business sector.
Identification and assessment of the risks inherent in each operating unit is carried out annually by means of a risk workshop
incorporating a broad cross section of management. Management have identified appropriate risk management responses to the
key risks generated by this exercise. Business risks are monitored at the monthly management meetings of the operating units
which are usually attended by the Group Managing Director and Finance Director. The Board has reviewed a report summarising
the risks for each operating unit and the Group as a whole.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system. Annual budgets are approved by the Board and
actual results are formally reviewed against budget and the prior year every month. Divisional management report monthly to the
Board on their performance and any significant variances from budget and make revisions to forecasts as appropriate. Borrowings
are controlled centrally and cash projections are prepared and monitored on a daily basis, if required, to ensure that the Group
has adequate funds and resources for the foreseeable future.
Procedures and authorisation levels for all expenditure incurred throughout the Group have been defined. Capital expenditure 
in excess of  10,000 and all acquisitions are appraised and authorised by the Board.
There is a rolling programme of internal audit reviews of operating units which are documented and any significant findings 
or risks reported to the Audit Committee and appropriate action taken. The external auditors, in carrying out their work in order 
to express an opinion on the financial statements, review and test the systems of internal financial control and the information
contained in the financial statements. They report on any weaknesses found when meeting with the Audit Committee.