 19 Countryside Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Corporate governance
This statement, together with the Report on Directors' Remuneration on pages 39 to 41, explains how the Company has applied the principles
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code - Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice  (the Combined Code ) as set out 
in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Board of Directors The Board comprises five executive and three independent non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of A H Cherry.
Short biographical details are set out on page 17.
The Senior Independent Director is D A Thornham.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly documented.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a
Board decision. The Board recognises that circumstances might arise where individual Directors may wish to take independent professional
advice and the Company will meet any reasonable expenses incurred.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and investment policy, approval of major transactions and consideration of
other significant financial matters. It also reviews the strategic direction of individual trading subsidiaries, their progress towards achievement
of operating budgets and their capital expenditure programmes.
The Board meets quarterly to review the business of the Group. It receives and reviews a full report on the Group's activities and financial
performance, as well as health and safety, environmental issues, internal control, significant litigation and shareholder relations. It also meets to
approve the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, to review and approve the Group's operating budget for the forthcoming financial
year, which is presented by the Chief Executive and the respective key executives, and to deal with other business as required.
In addition, all Directors receive monthly Group financial information, reports on the activities of each subsidiary company and copies 
of minutes of subsidiary company Board Meetings. All Directors are encouraged to visit sites and to take an active interest in the 
Company's developments.
A system is in place to review the performance of the Board.
The opinions of Directors on the quality and flow of information are canvassed on a regular basis.
Under the Articles of Association, adopted in March 1997, all Directors except an executive chairman are required to offer themselves for
reappointment at not less than three-year intervals. In practice, the Chairman has agreed to offer himself for reappointment on the same basis
and did so in 2002. The Board is now proposing a resolution to amend the Articles of Association to remove the exemption of an executive
chairman from this requirement. See page 23.
No Director has a service contract exceeding one year. Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts. The non-executive Directors
were appointed for fixed terms. S F Pickstock has been reappointed to 31st December 2002, when he will retire. M J Boleat has been
reappointed to 30th September 2003, and D A Thornham has been reappointed to 30th September 2004.
The Board has established a Nominations Committee which is currently chaired by M J Boleat and which comprises, in addition, the Chairman,
the Chief Executive and the other non-executive Directors. It meets at least once a year. Its remit is to nominate candidates for appointment to
the Board as and when appropriate.
The Nominations Committee reviews from time to time the composition of the Board to ensure that it has the necessary skills and experience to
provide strong and effective leadership for the Group.
As outlined in the Chairman's Statement (page 16) and following a recommendation from the Nominations Committee, the Board intends to
appoint J N Reyner as a non-executive Director of the Company with effect from 1st January 2003, and he will offer himself for reappointment
at the Annual General Meeting. The Board considers Mr Reyner to be independent.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board approval is in place and is regularly reviewed by the Board. The day-to-day management
of the Group is delegated to the Corporate Management Committee which comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, New Business Director
and Group Finance Director. This Committee meets weekly to monitor the Group's financial performance and cash flow, as well as approving 
all land acquisitions and other significant contracts. It also deals with appointments and promotions to senior management positions and
remuneration of senior management other than Directors. A framework of authorities is in place to cover delegation from the Corporate
Management Committee.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee comprises the non-executive Directors, currently under the Chairmanship of S F Pickstock.
It meets at least twice a year to review all aspects of executive Directors' remuneration.
It consults with the Chief Executive and receives advice from independent external advisers to assist in making its recommendations.
The Chief Executive is not involved in the recommendation regarding his own remuneration.
The Report on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 39 to 41. 20 Countryside Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Corporate governance continued
Accountability and audit The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of D A Thornham. The Chief
Executive, Group Finance Director and other finance executives and the external auditors attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The Committee monitors the Group's accounting policies, financial reporting and internal financial controls and provides a reporting forum 
for the Group's finance function and external auditors. It meets at least three times a year to consider the scope of the audit, the Annual 
Report and Accounts and Interim Report; the auditors' report to shareholders; management responses to any recommendations or
representations made by the auditors; the cost-effectiveness of the audit; and to review the independence and objectivity of the auditors 
and their appointment. It monitors the effectiveness of the Group's internal financial controls, including consideration of the need for internal
audit, and makes recommendations to the Board.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for internal control and has reviewed the effectiveness of its system which operated in the
year ended 30th September 2002.
The Board has established procedures to implement the Turnbull guidance, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on The Combined Code ,
which have been in operation throughout the financial year. The Board has established a Risk Management Committee to monitor and review
these procedures on its behalf. The Committee includes the Chief Executive, who chairs the Committee, the Group Finance Director and the
Company Secretary. Its remit is to ensure the Group maintains a sound system of internal control. This is achieved by the establishment of a
clear Risk Management Strategy which is reviewed annually, fully implemented, communicated, and analysed.
Key business risks include broad strategy issues, land acquisition, Health and Safety and Environmental issues, product quality and adequacy
of resources. Systems of monitoring and controlling these risks have been identified. All activity is organised within a defined structure with
formal lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. Procedures for testing the systems have been established and are carried out in
accordance with a specific timetable. The results are reported on a regular basis to the Risk Management Committee.
The systems regarding internal control include:
  defined levels of authority for incurring expenditure including the acquisition of development land;
  a five year business plan and an annual budget covering all the Group's activities with periodic reviews approved at Board level;
  comprehensive and regular reporting to the Board;
  monthly consideration by the Corporate Management Committee and trading subsidiary boards of actual results compared with budgets 
and forecasts;
  weekly consideration of sales and production statistics by the Corporate Management Committee;
  weekly cash projections for consideration by the Corporate Management Committee.
Monitoring of the effectiveness of internal financial controls is undertaken by the Audit Committee and the Board which receives regular
reports from management, the Risk Management Committee and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls which operated in the year ended 
30th September 2002. The Committee has also reviewed the need for an internal audit function and concluded that this is not required at 
this stage.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and the
Company's assets. However, such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Relations with shareholders The Group has a well established and structured communications programme with investors which is led by the
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting of the Company and at least 20 working days' notice of the Annual
General Meeting is given. Questions from shareholders are invited at the Meeting. Shareholders may also refer to the comprehensive
information on the Group's website.
Compliance with Combined Code provisions The Board considers that throughout the year ended 30th September 2002, the Company has
complied with the provisions of Section 1 of Part 2 of the Combined Code, save that an executive chairman is not required by the Articles of
Association to stand for reappointment. In practice, as explained on page 19, the Chairman has previously offered himself for reappointment
and it is now proposed to adopt new Articles of Association under which all Directors will be required to stand for reappointment (see page 23).