 Job:	 [6416/Cozart	annual	report	05	back]	 Proof:	 [11]
Operator:	 [Gemma]	 Date:	 04/10/05]
Server:	 [studio	1]
23 Annual Report & Accounts 2005
The Company's shares were admitted to trading on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange on 26 July 
2004. AIM listed companies are not required to comply with the 
disclosure requirements of the New Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance. However, the Board supports the principles contained in 
the New Combined Code and is committed to applying the principles 
set out therein where they are appropriate, given the Company's size. 
The following provides information on how these principles have 
been applied but does not constitute full compliance with the New 
Combined Code. 
Board of directors
The Company is controlled by the board of directors which 
comprises three executive and three non-executive directors. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper 
management of the Group and meets formally at least six times  
a year to set the overall direction and strategy of the Group, to 
review financial and operating performance and to advise on 
senior management appointments. Financial policy and budgets, 
including capital expenditure, are approved and monitored by the 
Board. All key operational decisions are subject to Board approval. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with.
Different directors hold the roles of chairman and managing 
director and there is a clear division of responsibilities between 
them. Individual directors possess a wide variety of skills and 
experience; Biographical details of the directors are set out on 
pages 18 and 19.
The non-executive directors are considered by the Board to  
be independent of management. The Board considers that the 
non-executive directors are of sufficient calibre and number to 
bring the strength of independence to the Board. The terms and 
conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available 
on request
During the year, there have been six Board meetings. All meetings 
were attended by all six Board members with the exception of 
one meeting where the Finance and Commercial Director was 
unable to be present due to illness. 
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity after their appointment and a third are subject  
to re-election at each annual general meeting.
Committees of the Board
Audit committee 
The audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors 
under the chairmanship of Mr Stephen Noar. It overviews the 
monitoring of the Group's internal controls, accounting policies  
and financial reporting and provides a forum through which the 
external auditors report. It also reviews the scope and results  
of the external audit and the independence and objectivity  
of the auditors and makes recommendations to the Board  
on issues surrounding their remuneration, appointment, 
resignation or removal. 
The following table breaks down the nature and cost of services 
provided by the Group's auditors during the year:
 2005
  '000
Audit services: 
 Statutory audit 30
 30
Tax services: 
 Advisory  14
 14
Other services: 
 Reporting accountant advisory  125
 Further assurance 4
 129
 173
The audit committee meets at least twice a year with the  
external auditors. 
During the year, there have been two audit committee meetings. 
Both meetings were attended by all three committee members. 
Terms of reference for the audit committee are available on 
request. These include definition of its role and the authority 
delegated to it by the Board.
Remuneration committee 
The remuneration committee comprises the three non-executive 
directors under the chairmanship of Mr Stephen Noar. It reviews, 
inter alia, the performance of the executive directors and sets  
the scale and structure of their remuneration and the basis  
of their service agreements with due regard to the interests  
of the shareholders. The remuneration committee also makes 
recommendations to the executive directors concerning the 
allocation of share options to employees. The committee meets  
at least twice a year.
During the year, there have been two remuneration  
committee meetings. Both meetings were attended by  
all three committee members. 
It is a policy of the remuneration committee that no  
individual participates in discussions or decisions concerning  
his own remuneration.
Terms of reference for the remuneration committee explain  
its role and the authority delegated it by the Board. These are 
available on request.
The directors' remuneration report is set out on pages 25 and 26.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprises the three non-executive 
directors under the chairmanship of Sir Brian Richards CBE. It 
meets at least once a year and is responsible for considering  
the size, structure and composition of the Board, retirements  
and appointments of additional and replacement directors,  
and making recommendations to the Board. 
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 May 2005  Job:	 [6416/Cozart	annual	report	05	back]	 Proof:	 [11]
Operator:	 [Gemma]	 Date:	 04/10/05]
Server:	 [studio	1]
Job:	 [6416/Cozart	annual	report	05	back]	 Proof:	 [11]
Operator:	 [Gemma]	 Date:	 04/10/05]
Server:	 [studio	1]
24 Cozart plc
During the year, there has been one nomination committee 
meeting. The meeting was attended by all three committee 
members. 
Terms of reference for the nomination committee are available  
on request.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control
The directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
Group maintains a system of internal control to provide them with 
reasonable assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded 
and that the shareholders' investments are protected. The system 
includes internal controls covering financial, operational and 
compliance areas, and risk management. There are limitations in 
any system of internal control, which can provide reasonable but 
not absolute assurance with respect to the preparation of financial 
information, the safeguarding of assets and the possibility of 
material misstatement or loss.
The Board has considered and reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control. An assessment of the major risk areas 
for the business and methods used to monitor and control them 
was also undertaken. In addition to financial risk, the review 
covered operational, commercial, environmental, regulatory, and 
research and development risks. The risk review is an ongoing 
process with regular review by the Board at least annually. 
Steps are always being taken to embed internal control and risk 
management further into the operations of the business and to 
deal with areas of improvement which come to management's 
and the Board's attention.
The key procedures designed to provide an effective system of 
internal control that have operated throughout the year and up  
to the date of the sign-off of this report are described below:
Control environment 
There is an organisational structure with clearly defined lines  
of responsibility and delegation of accountability and authority.  
This is kept up to date and is made available to all employees. 
Risk management 
The Group employs directors and senior executives with  
the appropriate knowledge and experience for the Company.  
A formal risk management review is performed annually  
as part of the process of determining the Group's system of 
internal controls and risk mitigation procedures. 
All risk procedures are carried out via the Group's quality  
assurance system which is audited to ISO9001:2000 and 
ISO13485:2003 standards. These ensure that all of the Group's 
products and services are manufactured and realised to the 
highest possible standard in full accordance to the requirements  
of the 98/79/EC European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive (IVDD).
Financial information 
The Group prepares detailed budgets and cash flow projections, 
which are approved annually by the Board and updated regularly 
throughout the year. Detailed management accounts and working 
capital cash flows are prepared on a monthly basis and compared 
to budgets and projections to identify any significant variances.
Management of liquid resources 
The Board is risk adverse when investing the Group's surplus cash 
funds. The executive directors monitor the Group's cash position on 
a daily basis. The Group's treasury management policy is reviewed 
annually and sets out strict procedures and limits on how surplus 
funds are invested.
Internal audit
The Board has considered it inappropriate to establish an internal 
audit function, given the size of the Group. However, this decision 
will be reviewed as the operations of the Group develop.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to effective communication 
with shareholders and encourages dialogue with both its institutional 
and private investors. In addition to the publishing of interim and 
annual results, the Group regularly publishes updates to investors 
on commercial activities. Directors regularly attend meetings with 
analysts and institutional shareholders throughout the year. 
All shareholders will have at least 21 days' notice of the annual 
general meeting at which they are invited to discuss the Group's 
developments and performance, and raise any questions 
regarding the management and operations of the Group. The 
chairman of the audit committee will also be present at the AGM 
to answer questions, through the chairman of the board, on the 
report on the audit committee's activities and matters within the 
scope of the audit committee's responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Report c o n t i n u e d
For the year ended 31 May 2005 