 20	 Cozart	 plc	 AIM listed companies are not required to comply with the disclosure 
requirements of the New Combined Code on Corporate Governance. 
However, the Board supports the principles contained in the New 
Combined Code and is committed to applying the principles set out 
therein where they are appropriate, given the Company's size. The 
following provides information on how these principles have been 
applied but does not constitute full compliance with the New 
Combined Code. 
Board	 of	 Directors
The Company is controlled by the board of directors which comprises 
five executive and three non-executive directors. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 
of the Group and meets formally at least six times a year to set the 
overall direction and strategy of the Group, to review financial and 
operating performance and to advise on senior management 
appointments. Financial policy and budgets, including capital 
expenditure, are approved and monitored by the Board. All key 
operational decisions are subject to Board approval. The Company 
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Different directors hold the roles of chairman and managing director 
and there is a clear division of responsibilities between them. Individual 
directors possess a wide variety of skills and experience; biographical 
details of the directors are set out on page 17.
The non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be 
independent of management. The Board considers that the non-
executive directors are of sufficient calibre and number to bring the 
strength of independence to the Board. The terms and conditions of 
appointment of non-executive directors are available on request.
During the year, there have been eight Board meetings. All meetings 
were attended by all Board members. 
All Board members receive monthly management accounts and 
regular management reports enabling them to review the Group's 
performance against agreed objectives. Regular reports and papers  
are circulated to directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board 
and Committee meetings. This information includes that specifically 
requested by the non-executive directors from time to time.
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity after their appointment and a third are subject  
to re-election at each annual general meeting.
Corporate Governance Report
For the year ended 31 May 2006
Committees	 of	 the	 Board
Audit	 committee	 The audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors 
under the chairmanship of Mr Stephen Noar. It overviews the 
monitoring of the Group's internal controls, accounting policies and 
financial reporting and provides a forum through which the external 
auditors report. It also reviews the scope and results of the external 
audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditors and  
makes recommendations to the Board on issues surrounding their 
remuneration, appointment, resignation or removal. 
The audit committee meets at least twice a year with the  
external auditors. 
During the year there have been two audit committee meetings. Both 
meetings were attended by all three committee members. 
Terms of reference for the audit committee are available on request. 
These include definition of its role and the authority delegated to it by 
the Board.
Remuneration	 committee	 The remuneration committee comprises the three non-executive 
directors under the chairmanship of Mr Stephen Noar. It reviews, inter 
alia, the performance of the executive directors and sets the scale  
and structure of their remuneration and the basis of their service 
agreements with due regard to the interests of the shareholders.  
The remuneration committee also makes recommendations to the 
executive directors concerning the allocation of share options to 
employees. The committee meets at least twice a year.
During the year, there have been two remuneration committee meetings. 
Both meetings were attended by all three committee members. 
It is a policy of the remuneration committee that no individual 
participates in discussions or decisions concerning his own remuneration.
Terms of reference for the remuneration committee explain its role and 
the authority delegated it by the Board. These are available on request.
The Directors' remuneration report is set out on pages 22 and 23.
Nomination	 committee
The nomination committee comprises the three non-executive 
directors under the chairmanship of Sir Brian Richards CBE. It meets at 
least once a year and is responsible for considering the size, structure 
and composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of 
additional and replacement directors, and making recommendations 
to the Board.  20	 Cozart	 plc	 21	 Annual	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2006
During the year, there has been one nomination committee meeting. 
The meeting was attended by all three committee members. 
Terms of reference for the nomination committee are available  
on request.
Internal	 control
The directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group 
maintains a system of internal control to provide them with reasonable 
assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded and that the 
shareholders' investments are protected. The system includes internal 
controls covering financial, operational and compliance areas, and risk 
management. There are limitations in any system of internal control, 
which can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance with respect 
to the preparation of financial information, the safeguarding of assets 
and the possibility of material misstatement or loss.
The Board has considered and reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control. An assessment of the major risk areas for  
the business and methods used to monitor and control them was also 
undertaken. In addition to financial risk, the review covered operational, 
commercial, environmental, regulatory, and research and development 
risks. The risk review is an ongoing process with regular review by the 
Board at least annually. 
The key procedures designed to provide an effective system of internal 
control that have operated throughout the year and up to the date of 
the sign-off of this report are described below:
Control	 environment
There is an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of 
responsibility and delegation of accountability and authority. This  
is kept up to date and is made available to all employees. 
Risk	 management
The Group employs directors and senior executives with the 
appropriate knowledge and experience for the Company. A formal  
risk management review is performed annually as part of the process 
of determining the Group's system of internal controls and risk 
mitigation procedures. 
All risk procedures are carried out via the Group's quality assurance  
system which is audited to ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 13485:2003 
standards. These ensure that all of the Group's products and services 
are manufactured and realised to the highest possible standard in full 
accordance to the requirements of the 98/79/EC European In Vitro 
Diagnostic Directive (IVDD).
Financial	 information	 The Group prepares detailed budgets and cash flow projections, which  
are approved annually by the Board and updated regularly throughout  
the year. Detailed management accounts and working capital cash 
flows are prepared on a monthly basis and compared to budgets and 
projections to identify any significant variances.
Management	 of	 liquid	 resources
The Board is risk adverse when investing the Group's surplus cash 
funds. The executive directors monitor the Group's cash position on  
a weekly basis. The Group's treasury management policy is reviewed 
annually and sets out strict procedures and limits on how surplus funds 
are invested.
Internal	 audit
The Board has considered it inappropriate to establish a formal internal 
audit function during the year, given the size of the Group. Although  
there is no formal internal audit function, financial reviews are 
performed between Group companies on a regular basis. 
Going	 concern
After making enquiries the directors have formed a judgement, at the 
time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the 
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Relations	 with	 Shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with 
shareholders and encourages dialogue with both its institutional and 
private investors. In addition to the publishing of interim and annual  
results, the Group regularly publishes updates to investors on 
commercial activities. The Managing Director and Finance Director 
regularly attend meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders 
throughout the year. 
All shareholders are sent copies of the interim and annual reports and  
are given notice to enable them to attend the Company's annual 
general meeting and any extraordinary general meeting. Shareholders 
whose shares are held by nominees may receive the information on 
request, The annual general meeting is normally attended by all 
directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the 
meeting and to meet with directors after formal proceedings.
Information on the Group, its products and technology, press releases 
and the interim and annual reports may be found on the Group's 
website: www.cozart.co.uk.