 Audit Committee Report
Membership, meetings and attendance in 2014
During the year, the Audit Committee comprised  
Mr A J H Dougal (Chairman), Mr D C Marshall and  
Mr R N L Huntingford.
Committee member
Meetings 
attended
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Mr A J H Dougal (Chairman) 4 4
Mr D C Marshall 4 4
Mr R N L Huntingford 4 4
Roles and responsibilities
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are:
 n to monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of  
the Group and any formal announcements relating to  
the Group's financial performance, reviewing significant  
financial reporting judgements contained in them;
 n to review the effectiveness of the Group's internal financial 
control and risk management systems;
 n to review the Group's finance and operational policies and 
procedures to ensure they remain effective and relevant;
 n to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group's 
Internal Audit function and to approve its terms of reference, 
its forward audit plan, and the results of its audit work;
 n to review and monitor the external auditors' independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 n to make recommendations to the Board in relation to  
the appointment of the external auditors and to approve  
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the  
external auditors;
 n to develop and implement policy on the engagement of  
the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking  
into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm; 
and to report to the Board, identifying where it considers 
changes to this policy are required; 
 n to oversee the whistleblowing arrangements of the  
Group and to ensure they are operating effectively; and 
 n to report to the Board on how it has discharged  
its responsibilities.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee  
for the year ended 31 March 2014. This report details the  
Audit Committee's ongoing responsibilities and key tasks, 
together with its major activities over the last year.
The key elements of our role are to review and report to the 
Board on the Group's financial reporting, internal controls  
and risk management processes and the performance, 
independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . Assurance required by the  
Audit Committee is provided by contributions from the external 
auditor, Internal Audit and other risk management reports  
as well as regular reports from management on performance.
The Audit Committee benefits from the skills and experience 
gained by its members in former senior executive roles and 
from their wide experience as Non-Executive Directors of  
other companies. We also have in attendance at meetings  
by invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, Executive 
Directors, and representatives of the external auditors and the 
Group's Internal Audit function. At least once during the year, 
the Committee meets separately with the external auditors  
and with management without the other being present. 
As Chairman of the Audit Committee I have regular meetings 
with the Group's external auditors, the Internal Audit Manager, 
the Chief Financial Officer, and other senior members of staff 
with whom key issues relevant to the Audit Committee's work 
are discussed. This facilitates the ongoing operation of the 
Audit Committee.
Andrew Dougal, Chairman of the Audit Committee
Governance
53
www.creston.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements
During the year and up until the date of this report, the Audit 
Committee undertook the following activities to ensure the 
integrity of the Group's Financial Statements and formal 
announcements:
 n reviewed and agreed specified procedures with the external 
auditors in relation to half year results for the six months 
ended 30 September 2013;
 n reviewed and discussed with the external auditors the key 
accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the 
Group's results for the period ended 30 September 2013 
and auditor observations on the specified procedures;
 n reviewed and agreed the external auditors' audit strategy 
memorandum in advance of their audit for the year ending  
31 March 2014, which included a statement of their 
independence and objectivity; and
 n discussed the report received from the external  
auditors regarding their audit in respect of the year  
ending 31 March 2014, which included comments  
on significant financial reporting judgements and their 
findings on internal control.
The most significant financial reporting judgement  
considered by the Audit Committee and discussed  
with the external auditors during the year was as follows:
Carrying value of goodwill 
(see note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details)
Each year the Audit Committee reviews management's 
assessment over the recoverability of the Group's goodwill  
and the need for any impairment. The recoverable amount of 
goodwill has been determined through value in use calculations 
of each cash generating unit ( CGU') based on projected cash 
flows over a five-year period. The assumptions used in 
determining the projected cash flows have been challenged 
with management and discussed with the auditors.
Particular attention was paid to ICM where the sensitivity 
analysis identified that a 15 per cent reduction in the five year 
projected future cash flows of the CGU would result in the 
recoverable amount being equal to the carrying value of 
goodwill. Having closely examined the assumptions underlying 
the projected cash flows and considered the CGU's historic 
budgeting performance, the Audit Committee was satisfied  
that the value in use calculation reflects management's best 
estimate and that no impairment was required.
As a result the Audit Committee was satisfied with the carrying 
value of goodwill in the Group balance sheet.
Risk management
Management is responsible for the identification, assessment, 
management and monitoring of risk, for developing, operating 
and monitoring the system of internal control and for providing 
assurance to the Board that it has done so. 
In order to assess the effectiveness of management's  
internal financial control and risk management systems  
the Audit Committee worked closely with the Internal Audit 
function monitoring progress against the Internal Audit plan  
(as detailed below).
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's  
system of internal control and risk management systems.  
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control 
environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the 
internal control system. However, such a system can provide 
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Internal Audit function
During the year progress against the Internal Audit plan has 
been monitored by the Audit Committee, with amendments  
to the audit plan agreed between the Audit Committee and  
the Internal Audit Manager where required. The audit plan for 
the year included the following activities:
 n an end-to-end review, based on key risks, of operational and 
financial processes at all operating companies. This included 
an assessment of the adequacy of internal controls at each 
agency and a recommendation of improvements where 
appropriate;
 n the Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately  
with the Internal Audit Manager to discuss any control 
weaknesses identified in the agency audits and to agree 
remedial action;
 n the Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately  
with the Internal Audit Manager to review the Group's  
risk register and understand how the risks identified are 
being managed. Where possible, assurance was gained  
by matching these risks to compensating controls observed 
during the agency audits; and
 n a summary of all findings was presented by the Internal 
Audit Manager at each of the Audit Committee meetings. 
These activities have allowed the Audit Committee to gain 
comfort over the effectiveness of the Group's internal financial 
control and risk management systems, further details of which 
can be found in the Group's internal control and risk assessment 
as set out on pages 49 to 51.
Audit Committee Report
continued
54
www.creston.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition  
and management override of controls
The Audit Committee considered the presumed risks of  
fraud, as defined by auditing standards, and was content  
that there were no issues arising. The Audit Committee  
also considered the risk arising as a result of percentage of 
completion judgements made in revenue recognition. The 
Audit Committee determined that the external auditors along 
with the Internal Audit function had sufficiently considered 
these areas as part of their respective audit plans.
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee reviewed the Group's whistleblowing 
policy and is satisfied that this has met FCA rules and good 
standards of corporate governance.
Further details of the whistleblowing policy are set out  
within the Directors' statement on corporate governance  
on page 51.
External auditors
The Audit Committee places great importance on ensuring 
there are high standards of quality and effectiveness in the 
external audit process. This was assessed throughout the  
year using a number of measures, including but not limited to:
 n reviewing the quality and scope of planning of the audit  
and its responsiveness to changes in our business;
 n monitoring the independence and transparency of the audit; 
and
 n obtaining feedback from management on the quality  
of the audit team, business understanding and audit 
approach.
The Audit Committee considered the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors through a careful review of 
their terms of engagement, scope of work and level of fees. 
This included reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit 
services supplied by the external auditors to the Group, 
seeking to balance objectivity and value for money. 
The external auditors are excluded from providing services 
where the threat to their independence is considered to be  
too great (for example, systems design and implementation, 
management functions or human resources). No such services 
were provided by the external auditors during the financial year 
ended 31 March 2014.
Prior approval from the Audit Committee is required where 
non-audit fees exceed two times the annual audit fee. Specific 
agreement is also required from the Audit Committee for 
certain types of assignment (for example, due diligence on 
Class 1 acquisitions). 
During the year PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP provided no 
non-audit services to the Group and the Board is therefore 
satisfied that there has been no impairment of their objectivity 
and independence. Refer to note 4 of the Financial Statements 
for fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during the year.
The external auditors' report to the Directors and the Audit 
Committee also confirmed their independence in accordance 
with Auditing Standards.
Andrew Dougal
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
9 July 2014
Governance
55
www.creston.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014