 CVS Group plc 
 
18 
Corporate governance statement 
 
Principles of Corporate Governance 
The Directors acknowledge the importance of the principles set out in The UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued in May 2010. Although The UK Corporate Governance Code is not compulsory for AIM 
listed companies, the Directors have applied the principles in this statement, together with the 
Remuneration Report set out on pages 26 to 30, as far as is considered practicable and appropriate 
for a public company of CVS's size as follows: 
Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors consists of four members, including a Non-Executive Chairman and a Non-
Executive Director. 
The business of the Company and its subsidiaries are the combined responsibility of the Board, who 
are responsible for controlling and leading the Group. Their responsibilities include all major 
strategic decision making and significant operational matters.  The Board periodically reviews the 
risk profile of the Group to ensure adequate internal controls are in place.  
The Board meets regularly to discuss the ongoing strategy of the Group and monitor funding 
requirements and performance.  Detailed budgets are set each year for all practices and other 
operating units, and the Board continually monitors performance against these budgets. 
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice on the furtherance of their duties if 
necessary. They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and, where it 
is considered appropriate and necessary, training is made available to Directors. All Directors receive 
updates on the duties and responsibilities of being a Director of a listed Company. This covers legal, 
accounting and tax matters as required. The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in 
respect of any legal action against its Directors. The level of cover is currently  10m. 
Those attending and the frequency of Board and Committee meetings held in the financial year were 
as follows: 
 
  
Main Board 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nominations 
Committee 
Number of meetings 11 3 5 1 
Richard Connell 11 3 5 1 
Simon Innes 11 *3 *5 - 
Paul Coxon 11 *3 - - 
David Timmins 11 3 5 1 
 
*
In attendance by invitation of the respective Committee. 
 
In addition to the Chairman Richard Connell, who was determined to be independent on 
appointment, there is one independent Non-Executive Director, David Timmins. Mindful of their 
other commitments the Chairman and Non-Executive Director have formally confirmed to the Board 
that they have sufficient time to devote to their responsibilities as Directors of the Group. 
 
  CVS Group plc 
 
19 
Corporate governance statement (continued) 
The Board has appointed three Committees (all of which operate within defined terms of reference), 
which are detailed below: 
The Audit Committee 
The Committee consists of two Non-Executive Directors: Richard Connell and David Timmins.  The 
Committee is chaired by David Timmins.  
The Audit Committee's duties primarily concern financial reporting, internal controls and risk 
management systems, whistle-blowing procedures, internal audit and external audit arrangements 
(including auditor independence). 
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly 
monitored and reported on and for meeting with the external auditors and reviewing their reports 
relating to financial statements and internal control matters.  The Chief Executive and Finance 
Director are invited to attend such meetings, but the Committee also meets with the auditors 
without the Chief Executive and Finance Director being present and at least once annually.  Other 
members of management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to 
discharge its duties. 
 
Meetings 
The Audit Committee has met three times during the financial year, and the agenda of each meeting 
was linked to the reporting requirements of the Group and the Group's financial calendar.  Each 
Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters relevant to its terms of 
reference in addition to the cyclical items. 
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties 
In the year ended 30 June 2012 and up to the date of this report the Audit Committee has: 
 reviewed the 2012 annual report and financial statements and the interim report issued in 
March 2012.  As part of these reviews the Committee received a report from the external 
auditors on their audit of the annual financial statements and review of the interim report; 
 considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate 
risks; 
 reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and disclosures made in the 
annual report and financial statements; 
 met with the external auditors, without management being present, to discuss any issues 
arising from the audit; 
 agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 2012 financial 
statements and review of the interim report;  
 considered the need for an internal audit function; and 
 reviewed the performance and independence of the external auditors. 
 
The Audit Committee has a programme for reviewing its effectiveness. 
 
The Remuneration Committee 
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is David Timmins and its other member is Richard 
Connell. It reviews the performance of Executive Directors, sets the scale and structure of their 
remuneration and reviews the basis of their service agreements with due regard to the interests of 
the shareholders, utilising the services of external consultants as appropriate.   CVS Group plc 
 
20 
Corporate governance statement (continued) 
The Remuneration Committee also makes recommendations to the Directors concerning any long 
term incentive plans including the award of share options to Directors and senior employees. The 
Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings as appropriate but is not permitted to participate in 
discussions relating to his own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee has met three times 
during the financial year. 
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 26 to 30. 
The Nominations Committee 
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee is Richard Connell and its other member is David 
Timmins and it meets once annually, as a minimum.   The Nominations Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge and experience of the CVS 
Board.  It is also responsible for the co-ordination of the annual evaluation of the performance of the 
Board and of its committees.  
It is responsible for making recommendations to the CVS Board on all CVS Board appointments and on 
the succession plans for both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. 
Relations with shareholders 
Copies of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are issued to all shareholders and copies are 
available on the Group's website (www.cvsgroupplc.com).  The Group also uses its website to 
provide information to shareholders and other interested parties. The Company Secretary also deals 
with correspondence as and when it arises throughout the year. 
At the Annual General Meeting the shareholders are entitled to raise questions and queries, and the 
Chairman along with the Chief Executive and other Directors are available before and after the 
meeting for further discussions with shareholders.   
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with institutional investors, private 
client brokers, individual shareholders, fund managers and analysts to discuss information made 
public by the Group.  
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Director are always available to shareholders on all matters 
relating to governance and strategy. They may be contacted through the Company Secretary at 
company.secretary@cvsvets.com. 
Internal control 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and reviewing its 
effectiveness on an ongoing basis.  
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group's 
strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The key risk management processes and internal control procedures include the following: 
  The close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of the day-to-day operations, 
including regular meetings with senior staff from across the Group and a review of the monthly 
operational reports compiled by senior management; 
  Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority. The Board has responsibility for strategy 
and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision; 
  CVS Group plc 
 
21 
Corporate governance statement (continued) 
  A comprehensive system of financial reporting, forecasting and budgeting. Detailed budgets are 
prepared annually for all parts of the business. Reviews occur through the management 
structure culminating in a Group budget which is considered and approved by the Board. Group 
management accounts are prepared monthly and submitted to the Board for review. Variances 
from budget and prior year are closely monitored and explanations are provided for significant 
variances.  Independent of the budget process, the Board regularly reviews revised profit, cash 
flow and bank covenant compliance forecasts which are updated to reflect actual performance 
trends. 
  A continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks across the Group 
together with a comprehensive annual review of risks which covers both financial and non-
financial areas. 
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of business conduct and ethics, and has an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks in this regard.  
 
The internal control procedures are delegated to the Executive Directors and senior management 
and are reviewed in the light of the ongoing assessment of the Group's significant risks. 
 
Internal audit 
 
The Audit Committee has reviewed the key risk management processes and internal control 
procedures described above and is satisfied that the processes and controls currently in place are 
appropriate for a public company of CVS's size.  As a consequence, the Audit Committee are of the 
opinion that there is currently no need for an internal audit function, but they will continue to 
consider this going forward. 
Going concern 
At the balance sheet date the Group had cash balances of  4.9m and an un-utilised overdraft facility 
of  4m. Since the year end, the Group has continued to trade profitably and to generate cash. No 
bank debt repayments are due in the year to 30 June 2013. After consideration of market conditions, 
the Group's financial position (including the level of headroom available within the bank facilities) 
and its profile of cash generation, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving 
the financial statements that both the Company and the Group have adequate resources available to 
continue operating in the foreseeable future. For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be 
adopted in preparing the financial statements.  
 
By order of the Board 
 
 
 
Paul Coxon 
Secretary 
24 September 2012 