 Governance
Cyril Sweett Group plc 21
Annual report and accounts 2009
Governance
Whilst the Group is not required to comply with the Combined Code 2006, the Group is committed to high standards of Corporate
Governance and considers sound governance and transparency to be fundamental to achieving its objective of enhancing shareholder
value. The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Group in accordance with the principles of corporate governance contained
in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, in so far as is practicable for a company of its size.
The Board of directors
The Board comprises four executive directors and three non-executive directors. Its role is to determine the strategic direction of the
Group within a framework of best practice corporate governance and prudent and effective controls which enables risks to be assessed
and managed. It sets the Group's values and standards, including matters relating to corporate social responsibility and ensures that its
obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
The mix of skills and business experience of the non-executive directors is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the Board,
ensuring matters are debated and that no individual or group dominates the Board decision-making process.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include:
  The acquisition or disposal of a business or of shares in a company;
  The establishment of a new business or closure of an existing business;
  The annual budget and strategic plan;
  Significant capital expenditure, IT equipment and leasing arrangements;
  Proposed contracts satisfying specific criteria;
  Changes to the organisational structure or management structure; and
  Dividend policy.
The Board is assisted by certain committees and a description of the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to them is set
out below.
Audit Committee
The company has established an Audit Committee comprised of the non-executive directors. The Audit Committee meets not less than
three times per year and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the auditors and the audit fee,
reviewing the conduct and control of the annual audit and reviewing the operation of the internal financial control environment. It also
has responsibility for the reporting of the financial performance of the Group and for reviewing financial statements prior to publication.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Henderson.
Remuneration Committee
The company has established a Remuneration Committee currently comprised of the non-executive directors. It reviews the performance
of the executive directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and the basis of their service agreements with due
regard to the interest of shareholders. The Remuneration Committee also determines the allocation of share options to employees. It is a
rule of the Remuneration Committee that a director shall not participate in discussions or decisions concerning his/her own
remuneration.
The Group has adopted the Model Code for directors' dealing as set out in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and as applicable
to AIM companies and will take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance by directors and relevant employees. The Remuneration
Committee is chaired by Michael Henderson.
Corporate Governance Nominations Committee
The company has established a Nominations Committee comprising one executive director, the non-executive directors and the
Chairman of the Company. The Nominations Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for reviewing the Board structure,
size and composition, making recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and identifying
candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board places as and when they arise. The Nominations Committee is chaired by Nicholas
Woollacott.
Board processes
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring that directors receive appropriate training. Between January 2007 and July
2008, executive directors of the plc Board and two subsidiary Boards attended a number of training sessions as part of the master-class
development programme, provided by Harper Craven. This programme covered a wide range of strategic, managerial and governance
issues and included a 360  assessment and individual coaching where required. Further training is provided as and when necessary and
may be identified as part of the annual evaluation process. An induction pack detailing Board procedures, directors' responsibilities and
various governance-related issues is produced for all new directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there is a procedure for directors to seek independent
professional advice, in furtherance of their duties, at the company's expense. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that
Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are followed. The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman, ensures
that the information presented to the Board is not only timely but of sufficient quality to enable members to make an informed decision.
There were ten full Board meetings during the financial year and the table below details the attendance by directors at these meetings.
Maximum 
number
of meetings 
that could 
have been
Attendance attended
Executive
Francis Ives 10 10
Dean Webster 10 10
Derek Pitcher 10 10
Michael Kemsley (resigned on 19 January 2009) 6 7
Chris Goscomb (appointed on 19 January 2009) 3 3
Non-executive
Michael Henderson 10 10
Roger Mabey 910
Nicholas Woollacott 10 10
Following the admission to AIM, all directors are submitted for re-election at regular intervals of not more than three years at the Annual
General Meeting, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
22 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Governance
Corporate Governance
continued Governance
Cyril Sweett Group plc 23
Annual report and accounts 2009
Governance
Board performance and evaluation
The Board is committed to evaluating its own performance. During the year the Board undertook an initial evaluation of its performance
and of individual directors, the findings of which are being implemented. This was done in parallel with the development of a Group 
Risk Register which is being used to further the development of an internal audit function. The Board will continue to develop its annual
evaluation programme for its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors. The evaluation process will be used
constructively as a mechanism to improve Board effectiveness, maximise strengths and tackle weaknesses.
Internal audit
During the year the Audit Committee employed an external Internal Audit consultant to assist with the development of a Group Risk
Register and an Internal Audit implementation plan. In July 2009 an Internal Audit manager has been recruited to progress the
implementation of this function.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, for specified terms. 
They are subject to periodic re-appointment by shareholders and statutory provisions regarding removal.
All three non-executive directors have significant external commercial experience and bring expert advice and strong judgement to the
Board. The Board believes that the non-executive directors are independent of management and have no business or other relationships
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Board believes that the relatively low value of
shares held by non-executive directors does not impair their independence.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is detailed in the Directors' remuneration report.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for establishing, reviewing and maintaining the Group's systems of internal control and risk management and
ensuring that these systems are effective for managing the business risk within the Group. The Group has established a framework for
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. The framework of risk management and internal control
operating within the Group has been in place throughout the year and is designed to safeguard shareholders' investments and the
Group's assets whilst ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained. This framework is reviewed annually.
It is the responsibility of the management to ensure that the controls and procedures that operate within the framework are followed 
and that the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and control issues, both operational and financial. The Board recognises that any
system of internal control exists to minimise the risk of failure rather than eliminate it, and that any system of internal control can only
provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk management of joint ventures and strategic partnerships is agreed between the parties and periodic reviews carried out 
where appropriate.
The Group reviews the effectiveness of the risk management system and its internal controls annually.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to a continuing dialogue with its shareholders. Following the announcement and presentation of the interim and
year end results, there is a series of formal meetings with institutional shareholders. These meetings enable the executive directors to
appraise the investors of the Group's business and future plans and the shareholders can communicate any concerns they may have. 
The Group's brokers and financial PR advisors provide feedback from the shareholder and analyst meetings and present the results to
the Board.
The Group's investor relations section on its website contains information on the Group's financial results and its stock exchange
announcements. Additionally, the AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders. All shareholders are invited to attend the AGM and
the Board will be available at the meeting to answer questions. Full Interim and Annual Reports are made available to all shareholders.