 Dawson Holdings PLC Annual Report 2005
35
The Combined Code
The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of
corporate governance. The Company throughout the reporting
period complied (except with regard to the evaluation of
individual directors and the Board as a whole) with the
provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued by the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Nigel Freer,
four non-executive directors of whom three are considered by
the Board to be independent (Malcolm Pearce being the
exception) and two executive directors. Biographical details of
the directors are given on page 3.
The executive directors on the Board are David Blundell, Chief
Executive and David Lowther, Group Finance Director, who is
also responsible for all head office support activities and the
Books library supply operation. Neil Cross is the recognised
senior independent non-executive director and, as such, is
available to shareholders for issues that have not been resolved
through the normal channels.
From time to time the Chairman meets with the other 
non-executive directors and, at least once a year, the senior
independent non-executive director and the other 
non-executive directors meet without the Chairman.
The Board believes that an effective balance of power is
maintained and that it is not possible for an individual or small
group of individuals to dominate the Board's decision taking.
The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters
reserved for it including the agreement of strategies and
budgets, approval of major capital expenditure, approval of any
business acquisition or disposal and approval of overall
borrowing facilities or commitments. In addition, the separate
responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive have
been clearly defined and approved of by the Board.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company
Secretary who organises all Board matters and can only be
appointed or removed by agreement of the Board as a whole.
They also have access to independent professional advice
where required. New directors receive induction to the group
through a formal programme, which includes introductions to
major shareholders as and when the opportunity arises, and all
directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and
knowledge.
Each month, members of the Board receive summary financial
and operating results for each business area compared to the
annual budget and the latest of the quarterly forecast updates.
In addition, they receive a narrative review and explanation of
the results from the Divisional Managing Directors and the
Group Finance Director.
In view of the number of changes to the Board during 2005,
an evaluation of the Board as a whole has not taken place,
however, it is the intention of the Board to carry out a formal
evaluation during 2006.
During the reporting period, the directors' attendance at
meetings was as shown below:
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of 
meetings 7 6 6 7
Percentage of meetings attended when a member:
Nigel Freer 100 100 100 100
David Blundell 100 n/a 100 n/a
Neil Cross 100 100 100 100
Ian Davies 100 100 100 100
Brenda Dean 100 100 100 100
David Lowther 100 n/a n/a n/a
Malcolm Pearce 100 100 100 100
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. There are separate
reports for each of those Committees (page 37 and pages 22
to 27).
The Board monitors the work of the three Committees by
receiving reports from them and minutes of their meetings are
made available to all directors.
In March 2005 the Audit and Remuneration Committees
recommended that only independent non-executive directors
should be members of those Committees. The
recommendations were agreed by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors meet with institutional shareholders and analysts
on a regular basis with the intention of developing their
understanding of the business through formal presentations
and the Directors' understanding of the views of major
shareholders through face-to-face contact. From time to time
the Chairman discusses strategy and corporate governance
with major shareholders and their views are reported at Board
meetings.
Following the publication of its annual report, the Board holds
an annual general meeting at which the full participation of
private shareholders is encouraged. Notice of annual general
meetings will be sent to shareholders at least twenty working
days before the meeting. All of the Directors including the
Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration
Committees are in attendance and are available to answer
questions.
Corporate Governance
810612 2030  28/11/05  8:58 PM  Page 35 Dawson Holdings PLC Annual Report 2005
36
At the meeting, the level of proxy votes lodged on each
resolution will be available. A separate resolution is proposed
on each substantially separate issue and there are separate
resolutions pertaining to the report and accounts and the
Remuneration Committee Report. To encourage shareholders
to actively take part in the process, the Company has
introduced, as another alternative, electronic proxy voting
through either CREST (for institutional shareholders) or the
Capita Registrars web-site.
Internal Control
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Company's
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives. The group's system as a whole is
designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance
that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with
appropriately.
During the reporting period to 1st October 2005 the group
operated under an established internal control framework, key
elements of which include:
  Annual budgets and three year plans are reviewed and
accepted by the Board prior to implementation throughout
the group.
  The group manages its business by monitoring performance
against budget and forecast updates during the year.
  The group has clear procedures for the delegation of
authority deriving from the list of matters reserved for the
decision of the Board including the approval of capital
expenditure.
  Each division has its own executive management meeting
on a monthly basis to discuss financial and operational
issues relating to the division. These meetings include
reviews of reports relating to a variety of aspects of
performance and control. In addition, monthly meetings are
held involving all divisional Managing Directors, the Chief
Executive and the Group Finance Director. Here the key
performance and control points arising from individual
divisions are discussed, along with broader issues relating to
the group as a whole.
  The internal audit team regularly reviews the group's system
of internal control at key operations. Corrective action is
taken by the internal audit team after review by the Board
and Audit Committee.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Company and the
related controls. This has been in place for the full financial
period, has been reviewed by the Board and accords with the
Internal Control Guidance for Directors produced by the
Turnbull working party.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the business has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and
therefore have adopted the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in
respect of the Financial Statements
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare
financial statements for each financial year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the
group at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the
group for that period. In preparing those financial statements,
the Directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them on
a consistent basis, making judgements and estimates that
are prudent and reasonable;
  State whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements, and
  Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will
continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have met the above
requirements. The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Company and of the
group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply
with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
the system of internal control and for safeguarding the assets
of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
810612 2030  28/11/05  8:58 PM  Page 36