 52
Corporate Governance 
Statement
The Combined Code
The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of
corporate governance. The Company throughout the
reporting period complied with the provisions of Section 1
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by
the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Nigel
Freer, three independent non-executive directors and two
executive directors. Biographical details of the directors
are given on pages 2 and 3. 
The executive directors on the Board are Peter Harris,
Chief Executive and Hugh Cawley, Group Finance Director.
Jim McCarthy is the recognised Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and, as such, is available to
shareholders for issues that have not been resolved
through the normal channels.  
From time to time the Chairman meets with the other non-
executive directors and, at least once a year, the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director and the other non-
executive directors meet without the Chairman.
The Board believes that an effective balance of power is
maintained and that it is not possible for an individual or
small group of individuals to dominate the Board's decision
taking.
The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters
reserved for it including the agreement of strategies and
budgets, approval of major capital expenditure, approval of
any business acquisition or disposal and approval of overall
borrowing facilities or commitments. In addition, the
separate responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief
Executive have been clearly defined and approved of by the
Board.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company
Secretary who organises all Board matters and can only be
appointed or removed by agreement of the Board as a
whole.  They also have access to independent professional
advice where required. New directors receive induction to
the group through a formal programme, which includes
introductions to major shareholders as and when the
opportunity arises, and all directors are encouraged to
continually update their skills and knowledge.
Each month, members of the Board receive summary
financial and operating results for each business area
compared to the annual budget and the latest of the
quarterly forecast updates. In addition, they receive a
narrative review and explanation of the results from the
Divisional Managing Directors and the Group Finance
Director.
During 2006, a formal evaluation of individual directors and
the Board as a whole was carried out. The process adopted
was as follows. Three questionnaires were prepared -
Board Effectiveness Evaluation, Individual Director
Assessment and Assessment of the Chairman.
Individually, directors completed the Board Effectiveness
Evaluation questionnaire and their own Director
Assessment questionnaire. The outputs were discussed on
a one-to-one basis with the Chairman of the Board. The
results from the questionnaires were consolidated and a
report produced by the Chairman, which was discussed by
the Board.
Non-executive directors also completed the Assessment of
the Chairman questionnaire and met with the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director to discuss their views.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director discussed
the views of the directors (including the executive directors)
with the Chairman.
The Board agreed an action plan with dates and
responsibilities. Progress against the objectives has been
regularly reviewed at Board meetings.
In the past year, Neil Cross and David Lowther have retired
from the Board and Hugh Cawley has joined as Group
Finance Director. There has been less change on the
Committees with Neil Cross being the only change
throughout the financial year. Each Committee has
assessed its own work and these assessments have been
considered by the Board. In the circumstances, the Board
has agreed that an evaluation of the Board and its
Directors will be postponed until the second half of 2008.
95304 AR 2007 Txt  12/12/2007  22:51  Page 52 53
Dawson Holdings PLC Annual Report 2007
During the reporting period, the directors' attendance at
meetings was as shown below:
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of 
meetings 10 4 3 4
Percentage of meetings attended when a member:
Nigel Freer 100 n/a 100 100
Hugh Cawley 100 n/a n/a n/a
Neil Cross 75 50 * 33
Ian Davies 100 100 100 100
Brenda Dean 100 100 100 100
Peter Harris 100 n/a 100 n/a
David Lowther 100 n/a n/a n/a
Jim McCarthy 80 100 100 75
* No meetings were held during the period that Neil was a member of the 
Committee
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. There
are separate reports for each of those Committees (pages
55 to 56 and pages 39 to 48).
The Board monitors the work of the three Committees by
receiving reports from them and minutes of their meetings
are made available to all directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors meet with institutional shareholders and
analysts on a regular basis with the intention of developing
their understanding of the business through formal
presentations and the Directors' understanding of the
views of major shareholders through face-to-face contact.
From time to time the Chairman discusses strategy and
corporate governance with major shareholders and their
views are reported at Board meetings.
Following the publication of its annual report, the Board
holds an annual general meeting at which the full
participation of private shareholders is encouraged. Notice
of annual general meetings will be sent to shareholders at
least twenty working days before the meeting. All of the
Directors including the Chairmen of each of the Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees are in
attendance and are available to answer questions.  
At the meeting, the level of proxy votes lodged on each
resolution will be available. A separate resolution is
proposed on each substantially separate issue and there
are separate resolutions pertaining to the report and
accounts and the remuneration committee report. To
encourage shareholders to actively take part in the
process, the Company has arranged, as another
alternative, electronic proxy voting through either CREST
(for institutional shareholders) or the Capita Registrars'
web-site.
Internal Control
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the
Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. The
group's system as a whole is designed to provide the
Directors with reasonable assurance that problems are
identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
During the reporting period to 29th September 2007 the
group operated under an established internal control
framework, key elements of which include:
  Annual budgets and three-year plans are reviewed and
accepted by the Board prior to implementation
throughout the group.
  The group manages its business by monitoring performance
against budget and forecast updates during the year.
  The group has clear procedures for the delegation of
authority deriving from the list of matters reserved for
the decision of the Board including the approval of capital
expenditure.
  Each division has its own executive management meeting
on a monthly basis to discuss financial and operational
issues relating to the division. These meetings include
reviews of reports relating to a variety of aspects of
performance and control. In addition, monthly meetings
are held involving all divisional Managing Directors, the
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. Here the
key performance and control points arising from
individual divisions are discussed, along with broader
issues relating to the group as a whole.
95304 AR 2007 Txt  12/12/2007  22:51  Page 53 54
Corporate Governance Statement
  The internal audit team regularly reviews the group's
system of internal control at key operations. Corrective
action is taken by the internal audit team after review by
the Board and Audit Committee.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Company and
the related controls. This has been in place for the full
financial period, has been reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors
produced by the Turnbull working party. 
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the business has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future
and therefore have adopted the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect
of the Financial Statements
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and of the group at the end of the financial year
and of the profit of the group for that period. In preparing
those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
on a consistent basis, making judgements and estimates
that are prudent and reasonable;
  State whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the financial statements and 
  Prepare the financial statements on a going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group
will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have met the above
requirements. The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and of the group and to enable them to ensure that the
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are
also responsible for the system of internal control and for
safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and the detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
95304 AR 2007 Txt  12/12/2007  22:51  Page 54