 Corporate Governance Statement 48
Corporate Governance Statement
The Combined Code
The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of
corporate governance. The Company throughout the
reporting period complied with the provisions of Section 1
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by
the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Nigel
Freer, three independent non-executive directors and two
executive directors. Biographical details of the directors
are given on pages 4 and 5.
The executive directors on the Board are Peter Harris,
Chief Executive, and Hugh Cawley, Group Finance Director.
Jim McCarthy is the recognised Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and, as such, is available to
shareholders for issues that have not been resolved
through the normal channels.  
From time to time the Chairman meets with the other non-
executive directors and, at least once a year, the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director and the other non-
executive directors meet without the Chairman.
The Board believes that an effective balance of power is
maintained and that it is not possible for an individual or
small group of individuals to dominate the Board's
decision taking.
The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters
reserved to it including the agreement of strategy and the
annual budget, approval of major capital expenditure,
approval of any business acquisition or disposal, approval
of dividends and approval of overall borrowing facilities or
commitments. In addition, the separate responsibilities of
the Chairman and the Chief Executive have been clearly
defined and approved of by the Board.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company
Secretary who organises all Board matters and can only be
appointed or removed by agreement of the Board as a
whole. They also have access to independent professional
advice where required. New directors receive induction to
the group through a formal programme, which includes
introductions to major shareholders as appropriate, and all
directors are encouraged continually to update their skills
and knowledge.
Each month, members of the Board receive summary
financial and operating results for each business area
compared to the annual budget and the prior year. In
addition, they receive a narrative review and explanation of
business performance from the Chief Executive, Divisional
Managing Directors, the Group Finance Director and the
Director of Human Resources.
During 2008, a formal evaluation of individual directors and
the Board as a whole was carried out. The process adopted
was as follows. Three questionnaires were prepared -
Board Effectiveness Evaluation, Individual Director
Assessment and Assessment of the Chairman.
Individually, directors completed the Board Effectiveness
Evaluation questionnaire and their own Director
Assessment questionnaire. The outputs were discussed on
a one-to-one basis with the Chairman of the Board. The
results from the questionnaires were consolidated and a
report produced by the Chairman, which was discussed by
the Board.
Non-executive directors also completed the Assessment of
the Chairman questionnaire and met with the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director to discuss their views.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director discussed
the views of the directors (including the executive directors)
with the Chairman.
The Board agreed an action plan with dates and
responsibilities.  Progress against the objectives has been
regularly reviewed at Board meetings.
During the reporting period, the directors' attendance at
meetings was as shown below:
Audit Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of 
meetings 10 7 2 7
Percentage of meetings attended when a member:
Nigel Freer 100 n/a 100 100
Hugh Cawley 100 n/a n/a n/a
Ian Davies 100 100 100 100
Brenda Dean 100 86 100 100
Peter Harris 100 n/a 100 n/a
Jim McCarthy 90 100 100 100 Dawson Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 49
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. There
are separate reports for each of those Committees (pages
51 to 52 and pages 37 to 44).
The Board monitors the work of the three Committees by
receiving reports from them and minutes of their meetings
are made available to all directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors meet with institutional shareholders and
analysts on a regular basis with the intention of developing
their understanding of the business through formal
presentations and the Directors' understanding of the
views of major shareholders through face-to-face contact.
From time to time the Chairman discusses strategy and
corporate governance with major shareholders and their
views are reported at Board meetings.
Following the publication of its annual report, the Board
holds an annual general meeting at which the full
participation of private shareholders is encouraged. Notice
of annual general meetings will be sent to shareholders at
least twenty working days before the meeting. All of the
Directors including the Chairmen of each of the Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees are in
attendance and are available to answer questions.
At the meeting, the level of proxy votes lodged on each
resolution will be available. A separate resolution is proposed
on each substantially separate issue and there are
separate resolutions pertaining to the report and accounts
and the remuneration committee report. To encourage
shareholders actively to take part in the process, the
Company has arranged, as another alternative, electronic
proxy voting through either CREST (for institutional
shareholders) or the Capita Registrars' web-site.
Internal Control
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the
Company's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. The
group's system as a whole is designed to provide the
Directors with reasonable assurance that problems are
identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
During the reporting period to 27th September 2008 the
group operated under an established internal control
framework, key elements of which include:
  Annual budgets and three-year plans are reviewed and
accepted by the Board prior to implementation
throughout the group.
  The group manages its business by monitoring
performance against budget and forecast updates during
the year.
  The group has clear procedures for the delegation of
authority deriving from the list of matters reserved for
the decision of the Board including the approval of capital
expenditure.
  Each division has its own executive management
meeting on a monthly basis to discuss financial and
operational issues relating to the division. These
meetings include reviews of reports relating to a variety
of aspects of performance and control. In addition,
monthly meetings are held involving all divisional
Managing Directors, the Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director. Here the key performance and control
points arising from individual divisions are discussed,
along with broader issues relating to the group as a
whole.
  The internal audit team regularly reviews the group's
system of internal control at key operations. Corrective
action is recommended, and later followed up, by the
internal audit team after review by the Board and Audit
Committee.
There is a continual process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Company and
the related controls. This has been in place for the full
financial period, has been reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors
produced by the Turnbull working party. 
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the business has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future
and therefore have adopted the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.   Corporate Governance Statement 50
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report and the group and parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and
parent company financial statements for each financial
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the group
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare
the parent company financial statements on the same
basis.
The group and parent company financial statements are
required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present
fairly the financial position of the group and the parent
company and the performance for that period; the
Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial
statements that references in the relevant part of that Act
to financial statements giving a true and fair view are
references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the group and parent company
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
  state whether they have been prepared in accordance
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the group
and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the parent company
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are
also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report,
Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the company's website. Legislation in the UK
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.