 12
Dealogic (Holdings) plc
2008 Annual Report
Dealogic is committed to maintaining a high standard of
corporate governance. Although not required by the AIM rules,
the Company fully endorses both the spirit and principles of
the Combined Code on corporate governance ( the Code') and
seeks to comply to the extent that the Board considers it
appropriate, whilst taking account of the Company's size and
resources. Key features of how the Company has applied
these principles is set out in the following statement.
The Company has complied with the principal provisions set
out in the Code throughout the year.
Board of Directors
The Company is committed to maintaining a balance of
executive and non-executive directors. The Board currently
consists of seven members, comprising three executive
directors, two non-executive directors including the chairman
and two independent non-executive directors.
The Board is scheduled to meet normally no less than six
times per year. In addition, meetings are also convened on an
ad hoc basis when there is urgent or delegated business
which cannot wait until the next scheduled meeting. The
following table sets out details of the number of meetings of
the Board (excluding ad hoc meetings) and its committees
during the year and the attendance of the members at those
meetings:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of
meetings held
during the year 6 3 2 1
PJ Ogden 6 1 
TA Fleming 6
CJ Anderson 6 3 2 1 
PJ Beck 6 3 2 1 
T Haddon 6
PW Hulme 4 1 
F McHattie 6
The Board considers the overall strategic direction,
development and control of the group and reviews trading
performance, investment and divestment opportunities and
any other matters of significance to the group. Various major
decisions require Board approval, including the approval of
the annual budget, larger capital expenditure proposals,
acquisitions and disposals. Board papers, which are
distributed to all directors in advance of each meeting, follow
a set agenda although further subjects are added for
discussion as the need arises. 
The Executive Committee (see below) also meets formally as
a management team at regular intervals to monitor and
review the strategic direction of the business.
The independent non-executive directors are members of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Their
biographies on page 6 illustrate their relevant corporate and
industry experience to bring judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are
vital to the success of the group. Mr Beck continues as the
senior independent non-executive director.
The Articles of Association of the Company require Directors
to submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual
General Meeting following appointment and every three years
thereafter .
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, comprising of two independent non-
executive directors (Mr Beck (chairman) and Mr Anderson),
meets at least three times a year. The Chief Financial Officer
is generally in attendance in a non-voting capacity to provide
detailed reports and deal with any queries which arise. The
remaining Board members are also invited to attend but are
not entitled to vote. 
An invitation is also extended to the auditors to attend
meetings of the Committee in order to discuss issues relating
to the audit and financial control of the group. The auditors
also have direct access, should they so require, to the
Committee. The Committee has responsibility within the
agreed terms of reference for, among other things, the
planning and review of the group's annual and interim
financial statements, the supervision of its auditors in the
review of such financial statements and the review and
monitoring of their independence. The Audit Committee
focuses particularly on the group's compliance with legal
requirements and accounting standards, and on ensuring that
effective systems for internal financial control and for
reporting non financial operating data are maintained. The
ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual
report and interim statements remains with the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises two independent
non-executive directors (Mr Beck (chairman) and
Mr Anderson). Mr Ogden is a special adviser and the
remaining Board members are invited to the meetings but
only Committee members may vote. The Committee meets at
least twice a year and has responsibility for determining,
within agreed terms of reference, the group's policy on the
remuneration of senior executives and specific remuneration
packages for executive directors, including pension rights and
compensation payments. It is also responsible for making
recommendations for grants of options under the group's
share option schemes. 
Nominations Committee
The Committee consists of the non-executive Board members
and is chaired by Mr Beck. The Committee identifies,
evaluates and selects candidates for Board positions, ensures
appropriate succession planning and reviews annually the
composition and size of the Board. In considering the
appointment of a new director, the Committee considers and
defines the characteristics, qualities, skills and experience
that it considers would complement the overall balance and
composition of the Board. The Committee may appoint an
external consultant to help in the identification and
recruitment of an individual who satisfies the Committee's
criteria, if and when required.
Corporate Governance Statement Executive Committee
The Executive Committee chaired by the Chief Executive,
Mr Fleming deals with the implementation of business
strategy and day to day operational matters and comprises
the executive directors together with the heads of the
Solutions and the Analytics businesses. The committee also
discusses significant issues and determines the appropriate
action to be taken.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining the
group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the
group's strategic business objectives and can only provide
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the system of internal controls are:
Control Environment
There is sufficient segregation of duties and authorisation
controls on approval of customer and supplier contracts,
recruitment of staff, approval of purchases and payment of
invoices. These controls are reviewed by the Executive
Committee.
Key Risks
The Board reviews reports from management identifying and
evaluating significant risks and monitors the actions taken to
manage and control these risks on a regular basis, as well as
undertaking its own assessment of risk.
Financial Reporting
The Executive Committee members have regular meetings to
discuss all aspects of the business and review financial
performance against budget. The group has a comprehensive
system of financial reporting and forecasting covering profits,
assets, liabilities, cash flow and capital expenditure. The
systems include regular monitoring of cash, monthly
reporting of financial results, reviews of forecasts and
comparisons with budgets. Budgets and business plans are
prepared annually and reviewed by the Executive Committee
and the Board. Any variances are highlighted and corrective
action is taken where necessary.
Capital Investment
A detailed budget is approved by the Board. Capital
expenditure is controlled via approval limits and major items
of capital expenditure are approved at Board meetings.
Monitoring and corrective action
There are procedures in place to ensure that the system of
internal controls is operating correctly. These include the use
of software to ensure that all purchases are approved by
senior management before commitments are made.
The Board has considered the need for an Internal Auditor and
concluded that taking into account the size of the group, such
an appointment is not currently necessary.
Going Concern
The directors have reviewed the latest budget and cash flow
projections. The directors are satisfied that the group has
adequate resources to continue in operation for the
foreseeable future. The financial statements have therefore
been prepared on a going concern basis. This is supported
based upon current cash balances, historical profits and
positive cash flows.
Communications with Shareholders
The Company encourages two way communications with
shareholders. The Board endeavours to maintain good
relationships with its institutional shareholders by holding
regular meetings after results are published with further
dialogue as requested.
The Company's AGM will be held on 11 May 2009 at the
Company's registered office. The notice of the meeting is sent
to shareholders at least 21 days before the Annual General
Meeting. The directors are available for questions both
formally during the meeting and informally afterwards. The
chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees are available to answer questions at the AGM.
This annual report and financial statements together with the
Notice of Annual General Meeting and other information
regarding the group may be viewed on the Company's website
at www.dealogic.com.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board
Jonathan Bradshaw
Company Secretary
16 March 2009
13
Dealogic (Holdings) plc
2008 Annual Report