 13
Dealogic (Holdings) plc
2009 Annual Report
Dealogic is committed to maintaining a high standard of
corporate governance. Although not required by the AIM rules,
the Company fully endorses both the spirit and principles of
the Combined Code on corporate governance ( the Code') and
seeks to comply, to the extent that the Board considers it
appropriate, whilst taking into account the Company's size
and resources.
The Company has complied with the principal provisions set
out in the Code throughout the year. Key features of how the
Company has applied these principles is set out in the
following statement.
Board of Directors
The Company is committed to maintaining a balance of
executive and non-executive directors. Mr Drulard was
appointed to the Board as an executive director on 25
November 2009. The Board currently consists of eight
members, comprising four executive directors, two non-
executive directors, including the chairman, and two
independent non-executive directors. Mr Ogden continues as
Chairman of the Board.
The Board is scheduled to meet at normally no less than six
times per year, in addition to which meetings will also be
convened on an ad hoc basis if there is urgent or delegated
business which cannot wait until the next scheduled meeting.
The following table sets out details of the number of meetings
of the Board (excluding ad hoc meetings) and its committees
during the year and the attendance of the members at those
meetings:
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of
meetings held
during the year 6 3 2 1
CJ Anderson 6 3 2 1
PJ Beck 6 3 2 1
JO Drulard * - - - -
TA Fleming 6 - - -
T Haddon 6 - - -
PW Hulme 5 - - -
F McHattie 6 - - -
PJ Ogden 6 - - 1
The Board considers the overall strategic direction,
development and control of the group and reviews trading
performance, investment and divestment opportunities and
any other matters of significance to the group. Various major
decisions require Board approval, including the approval of
the annual budget, larger capital expenditure proposals,
acquisitions and disposals. Board papers, which are
distributed to all directors in advance of each meeting, follow
a set agenda although further subjects are added for
discussion as the need arises.
The Executive Committee (see below) meets formally as a
management team at regular intervals to monitor and review
the strategic direction of the business.
The independent non-executive directors are members of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Their
biographies on page 9 illustrate their relevant corporate and
industry experience to bring judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are
vital to the success of the group. Mr Beck continues as the
senior independent non-executive director.
The Articles of Association of the Company require the
directors to submit themselves for re-election at the first
Annual General Meeting following appointment and then
every three years.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprising the two independent non-
executive directors (Mr Beck (chairman) and Mr Anderson),
meets at least three times a year. The Chief Financial Officer
is generally in attendance in a non-voting capacity to provide
detailed reports and deal with any queries which may arise.
The remaining Board members are also invited to attend but
are not entitled to vote.
An invitation is also extended to the auditors to attend
meetings of the Committee in order to discuss issues relating
to the audit and financial control of the group. The auditors
also have direct access, should they so require, to the
Committee. The Committee has responsibility within its
agreed terms of reference for, among other things, the
planning and review of the group's annual and interim
financial statements, the supervision of its auditors in the
review of such financial statements and the review and
monitoring of their independence. The Audit Committee
focuses particularly on the group's compliance with legal
requirements and accounting standards, and on ensuring that
effective systems for internal financial control and for
reporting non financial operating data are maintained. The
ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual
report and interim statements remains with the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two
independent non-executive directors (Mr Beck (chairman) and
Mr Anderson). Mr Ogden acts as special advisor to the
Committee. The remaining Board members are invited to the
meetings but only the Committee members may vote. The
Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for
determining, within its agreed terms of reference, the
Company's policy on the remuneration of senior executives
and specific remuneration packages for executive directors,
including pension rights and compensation payments. It is
also responsible for making recommendations for grants of
options under the Company's share option plans.
Corporate Governance Statement 14
Dealogic (Holdings) plc
2009 Annual Report
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee consists of all non-executive
Board members and is chaired by Mr Beck. The Committee
identifies, evaluates and selects candidates for Board
positions, ensures appropriate succession planning and
reviews annually the composition and size of the Board. In
considering the appointment of a new director, the Committee
considers and defines the characteristics, qualities, skills and
experience that it considers would complement the overall
balance and composition of the Board. The Committee may
appoint an external consultant to help in the identification and
recruitment of an individual who satisfies the Committee's
criteria, if and when required.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief
Executive, Mr Fleming, meets regularly to discuss the
implementation of business strategy and day to day
operational matters. It comprises the executive directors
together with the senior management team.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the group's system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Board's policy is to encourage a focus by senior
management on the long-term sustainable success of the
business. This includes robust corporate governance and
continuously evolving control standards as well as healthy
challenge by the board on the group's strategic direction and
execution of strategy.
Management is responsible for the identification and
evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of the
business together with the design and operation of suitable
internal controls. There is sufficient segregation of duties and
authorisation controls on approval of customer and supplier
contracts, recruitment of staff, approval of purchases and
payment of invoices. The Board reviews reports from
management identifying and evaluating significant risks and
monitors the actions taken to manage and control these risks
on a regular basis, as well as undertaking its own assessment
of risk.
The Executive Committee members have regular meetings to
discuss all aspects of the business and review financial
performance against budget. The group has a comprehensive
system of financial reporting and forecasting covering profits,
assets, liabilities, cash flow and capital expenditure. There are
procedures in place to ensure that the system of internal
controls is operating correctly. These include the use of
software to ensure that all purchases are approved by senior
management before commitments are made. The process of
control includes regular monitoring of cash, monthly
reporting of financial results, reviews of forecasts and
comparisons with budgets.
The Board has considered the need for an Internal Auditor and
concluded that taking into account the size of the group, such
an appointment is not currently necessary.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed once a year
and is reviewed and approved by the Board. The operating
results are reported at Board meetings and compared to the
budget and latest forecast. Capital expenditure is controlled
via approval limits and major items of capital expenditure are
approved at Board meetings. The Company presents financial
statements to its shareholders twice a year.
Going Concern
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the
business and its current financial position, the directors are
satisfied that the Company has adequate financial resources
to continue to manage its business risks successfully and to
remain in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the report and accounts.
Communications with shareholders
The Company values the views of its shareholders and
recognises their interest in the Company's strategy and
performance. The Board endeavours to maintain good
relationships with its institutional shareholders by holding
regular meetings following the announcement of interim and
preliminary results and at other times as requested.
The Company's Annual General Meeting ( AGM') will be held
on 10 May 2010 at the Company's registered office. The notice
of the meeting is sent to shareholders at least 21 days before
the AGM. The directors are available for questions both
formally during the meeting and informally afterwards. The
chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees are all available to answer questions at the AGM.
This annual report and financial statements together with the
Notice of Annual General Meeting and other information
regarding the group may be viewed on the Company's website
at www.dealogic.com.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board
HC Vincent
Secretary
15 March 2010
Corporate Governance Statement continued