 corporate governance
Throughout the financial year ended 31 August 2002 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code
of Corporate Governance (the Combined Code ) set out in the Rules of the UK Listing Authority, except that the
Company has not identified one of its non-executive directors as the senior independent director.The Board is relatively
small, the Chairman is non-executive, all the non-executive directors have extensive board experience, and so the Board
does not believe that the identification of a senior non-executive director in addition to the Chairman is necessary at the
present time.The auditors' report on the Company's compliance with those items of the Combined Code specified for
their review is set out on page 27.
The Board
The Board of Debenhams plc is made up of the Chairman, three other non-executive directors, the Chief Executive and
four other executive directors. Nigel Palmer was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2002; the Remuneration and
Nomination Committee recommended his appointment which was approved by the Board. At Board meetings the
Company's strategy, budgets, performance, financial reporting and other major developments in the Company's operations
are reviewed on a regular basis in accordance with a rolling agenda. In addition each of the executive directors prepares 
a report which is circulated to the Board a week before each meeting and then reports orally at the meeting on the
performance of the areas of the business for which they are responsible.There is a schedule of matters specifically
reserved for the Board's decision.
Procedures are in place for the directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, in furtherance of their
duties, at the Company's expense. All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary; his
appointment and removal is one of the matters reserved for the Board's decision.
Relevant training is arranged for any new Board appointment if it is his or her first appointment to the Board of a
listed company and on an ongoing basis as necessary. Nigel Palmer was appointed to the Board during the year and was
trained, including attending external courses, on the duties of directors (statutory, fiduciary, and those arising under the
Listing Rules and Takeover Code), financial reporting, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.
The Company maintains a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman's and Chief Executive's roles so as 
to ensure a balance of power and responsibility. All the non-executive directors are independent; they are free from 
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement, are not also
directors of the same companies as any of the other directors, were not previously employed by the Company and do
not participate in any Company bonus, share option or pension scheme. All directors submit themselves for re-election 
by the shareholders at least every three years.
The Executive Board, made up of the five executive directors of the Company, and the Management Board, are
responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.The membership of the Management Board is set out
on page 12.
In addition to the Executive and Management Boards, there are three other principal Board committees, the Audit
Committee, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Treasury Committee. Each committee operates within
written terms of reference. Details of the Audit Committee and the Treasury Committee are set out below and details of
the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 26.
Relations with shareholders
The full-year and interim results are announced in October and April respectively and are accompanied by a current
trading statement. In addition trading statements are issued in January, covering performance over Christmas, and in July
covering the third quarter. Presentations are made to investors and analysts on the announcement of the interim and
annual results, and, following the announcements and the trading statements, meetings are held with shareholders and
analysts.The Company produces an Investor Newsletter twice a year.
The Preliminary Announcement, Report and Accounts, Interim Report, biannual presentations to analysts, trading
statements and the Investor Newsletter are posted on the Company's website at www.debenhams.com/investors.
The Company's Annual Report & Accounts is also published on the Company's website in an interactive HTML format.
Each segment of the document can be downloaded in PDF format for printing and the accounts pages are also available
as Excel spreadsheets.The Company will publish the next Interim Report, in April 2003, in the Financial Times and on the
Company's website, www.debenhams.com.
Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company's Annual General Meeting on 
11 December 2002 at 11.00 am at the Park Lane Hotel, Piccadilly, London W1; a full explanation of the matters to
be covered at the AGM, together with a letter from the Chairman are set out in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
At the same time as the Company issues information to its shareholders in the Accounts and Notice of AGM,
shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Company's activities, both as shareholders and as customers.Topics 
of particular interest to private shareholders, such as shareholder discount, electronic communication, the dividend
reinvestment plan and the share dealing service, are covered in the Information for Shareholders booklet which
accompanies the Annual Report. In addition the booklet contains information on the Nectar Card, gift cards and 
vouchers, the stores, mail order and the website, and other matters concerning shopping at Debenhams.
Audit and internal control
The Audit Committee is made up of the non-executive directors of the Company and is chaired by Christopher Pearce.
The external auditors, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Risk Management Controller, Company Secretary, Retail
Operations Director and other executive directors as required also attend meetings, although the Committee ensures
that the external auditors have the opportunity to raise matters when executives are not present.The Audit Committee's
responsibilities include keeping under review the scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit, the performance,
independence and objectivity of the auditors, the non-audit services provided by the auditors, issues arising from their 
half year review and annual audit, other matters the external auditors may wish to raise, the internal control processes
(see below) and ensuring that the interim and full year accounts present a balanced and understandable assessment of
the Company's position and prospects.The full Board considers the trading statements made by the Company before
their release.
20 www.debenhams.com/investors
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investment and the
Company's assets. Any such system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal
control. A system is in place, and has been throughout the year, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant
risks faced by the Company.This system accords with the Guidance to Directors on the Combined Code published by
the Turnbull Internal Control Working Party.
The Company also has a Risk Management Department.The Risk Management Department reports to the Audit
Committee every six months on the internal control systems.The Audit Committee considers the resources, scope,
programme and reports of the Department and management's responses.The reports include;
1. An assessment of strategic risk, which assesses markets, supplier base, sourcing locations, third party reliance etc.
It includes a matrix of Company risks by severity and likelihood of occurrence.
2. The proposed assignments for the forthcoming year.The Audit Committee considers the forthcoming year's
assignments and, because risks to the business are continually changing, keeps them under review, re-prioritising
the work as appropriate.
3. Assignments are then carried out and reports are made to the Audit Committee, covering all types of controls,
including those of an operational and compliance nature, as well as internal financial controls. In addition to the work
of the Risk Management Department, reports are also given by the Company Secretary, by the Treasury Controller,
and by the Insurance and Risk Controller.The required actions are identified and there is a follow-up process within
the next six months.
Major incidents such as fraud, theft, accounting discrepancies and other weaknesses or failures in controls, are
monitored by the Risk Management Department and reported to the Audit Committee to seek to ensure that
breakdowns in controls are identified and action taken where there may be a risk of similar occurrences.
Internal control issues are also addressed by the Risk Evaluation Group, which meets quarterly and is chaired by the
Finance Director.
The strategic planning, annual budgeting, forecasting and review processes, and the Financial Business Review 
(a monthly meeting on wider trading issues as well as forecast and cost reviews) seek to ensure that there are rigorous
financial reporting and control disciplines.
All employees are required to comply with the Code of Business Conduct and the Company's business policies.
These are communicated throughout the Company and are published on the intranet.
Treasury 
A Treasury Committee meets every three months. It is chaired by the Finance Director and consists of the Trading
Director, Retail Operations Director, Property Director, Director of Finance and Planning, Deputy Company Secretary and
other senior management representatives from the business.The Board has established an overall treasury policy, has
delegated the day-to-day responsibility of reviewing treasury policies to the Committee and has approved procedures and
authority levels within which the treasury function must operate.The Board receives regular reports covering treasury
activities, the minutes of Treasury Committee meetings are reviewed by the Board and the treasury function is subject to
regular internal audit.The Group does not enter into speculative arrangements, in that transactions in financial instruments
are matched to an underlying business requirement, such as planned purchases or forecast debt. Further information on
how treasury objectives and policies have been implemented is set out in note 24 to the accounts.
Going concern
After reviewing plans, budgets, current performance, and cash flow forecasts (including planned peak borrowing levels),
and taking into account the Company's bank facilities, the directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have
reasonable resources to enable them to continue in business for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors
believe it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
21 www.debenhams.com/investors