 AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
36
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard and its other members are Adam Crozier, 
Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long and Paul Pindar. All members of the committee have business 
and financial expertise. The Chairman is a chartered accountant with recent and relevant financial
experience. The committee has written terms of reference which have been published on the
Company's website. 
The committee will meet three times a year and a detailed rolling agenda for each meeting has been
prepared. It will meet at least once a year with the external and internal auditors, without management
present. At its first meeting in July of this year, which was attended by all members, the Audit Committee
carried out a review of the Group's systems of internal controls, reviewed the Group's risk management
register, framework, and processes, reviewed the internal financial control processes, the internal and
external auditors' plans and the whistle blowing  arrangements. At the second meeting of the Audit
Committee in October, attended by all members except Paul Pindar (due to other commitments), 
the particular focus was the review of the Company's annual financial statements including a report
from the external auditors identifying accounting or judgemental issues requiring the committee's
attention. In addition the committee received an assessment by senior management and the internal
auditor of the effectiveness of internal controls and the control environment, considered the objectivity
and independence of the external auditors and met with the external auditors and internal auditor
separately without management present. 
At all meetings, the committee receives reports from the Finance Director, internal auditor, the external
auditor and reports on material litigation, health and safety matters and treasury risks and controls. The
report of the internal auditor covers not only risk management and internal control matters but also on
its profit protection roles which cover areas that are specifically germane to the Company's retail activities.
Internal control
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the
Company. The board is responsible for the Company's system of internal control (further details of which
are given in the following sections) and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee carried out a  review at its first meeting of the Group's system of internal controls.
This system is made up of the following elements:
Risk identification
The Company has a dedicated department whose focus is on both internal audit and profit protection
including the detection of fraud. This internal audit team identifies annually and monitors, as part of 
its control environment review, the significant risks facing the business and prepares a risk register. 
The Company strengthened, in March of this year, its risk management strategy and policy. As part 
of this policy each head of function within the Group submits a control environment review annually,
which identifies the function's key performance indicators, business risks and controls to address them.
Risks are then ranked, initially by the functional head and then by internal audit. These risks are classified
as critical, serious, moderate and low, and rated as frequent, common, occasional and unlikely. A matrix
is prepared based on this classification which is presented to the Audit Committee and used to assess
the main areas on which focus should be placed and to form the basis of the risk management and
internal audit plans. The Company also considered the risks relating to Debenhams' business and 
its shares as part of its preparations for the Admission of the Company to the London Stock Exchange 
in May 2006 (this assessment was also used by the internal audit team in identifying the significant risks
facing the business). Those risk factors are set out on pages 12 to 20 of the prospectus issued at the
time of Admission, a copy of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary of Debenhams plc.  37
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Risk control 
The control environment review identifies the controls that prevent or mitigate the impact of the risk.
The internal audit work plan is designed to audit the risk management processes across the Company
and measure the effectiveness of each division's controls and management of its key risks. The audit
work plan for the year is presented to the Audit Committee. 
Reviews are then carried out by the internal audit team. All are risk scored, key actions are agreed with
the head of function, and follow-up reviews are carried out on any area with an unacceptable result.
Where necessary, external resources are employed to assist in the review of the controls and control
environment in specialist areas such as IT and treasury. With regards to individual stores, the relevant
sales directors are involved in follow-up reviews and stores are assessed, in part, based on their audit
results. Training and support is provided where necessary, and disciplinary action will be taken where
unacceptable results persist. Employees can access all risk management policies and procedures on 
the Company's intranet.
Financial control
A budget is prepared for each year, with significant input from senior management as well as store
managers and central functions. The board determines the key planning assumptions in the budget,
planning meetings are then held with key executives on sales and margin, and a number of meetings
are held attended by the head of each function and cost centre controllers. The final budget is approved
by the board in August of each year. Results are compared monthly against this budget and a reforecast 
is then done every month by store, division and for the Group against this budget. Variance analysis
against both budget and the latest forecast form a core part of the regular management information. 
A monthly financial review pack (which is reviewed by the executive directors and is made available to
the non-executive directors) is issued two weeks after the end of each month which contains the key
financial and operating performance indicators. In addition, a separate finance report from the Finance
Director is made to each board meeting.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) carried
out an assessment, in May 2006, of the high-level financial controls, budgeting and forecasting, financial
accounting procedures, accounting policies, management reporting framework, treasury operations
and the IT environment of the Company. In addition to its submission to the Sponsor of the Listing, 
that report has been reviewed internally by the Company and was also presented to the first meeting 
of the Audit Committee.
Arrangements for employees to raise matters in confidence (whistle-blowing procedures )
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the arrangements by which employees may raise in confidence
possible improprieties, namely:
i) The Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all employees (all senior employees are required 
to confirm compliance in writing) which includes details of how matters can be raised in strict
confidence. 
ii) Problem solving guidelines, which are published on the intranet, and set out the process for raising
any issues that may be affecting an employee at work.
iii) A confidential crime line for all staff in stores. 38
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Non-audit services
The fees paid to PwC for audit and non-audit services are set out in note 7 on page 69. There were
substantial non-audit services during the year due to the financial information requirements of 
the listing of Debenhams' shares on the London Stock Exchange, which involved, inter alia, PwC:
a) carrying out an assessment of the Company's financial controls, procedures and systems;
b) reviewing the financial information prepared in accordance with UK GAAP for the 2003, 2004 
and 2005 financial years; and
c) reporting its opinion on consolidated financial information for the 26 weeks ended 26 February 2005
and 4 March 2006 and year ended 3 September 2005 prepared in accordance with accounting
standards adopted for use in the EU.
It was cost effective for the Company to acquire services from PwC in such areas (and in areas such 
as taxation advice) because of their knowledge of the Group's affairs.
The Audit Committee has developed a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit
services. The objective of the Audit Committee's policy is to ensure that the provision of such service
does not impair the external auditor's independence or objectivity. In this context, the Audit Committee
will consider:
  whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make it a suitable supplier of the non-audit service;
  whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence
in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the external auditor;
  the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels and the fee levels individually and in
aggregate relative to the audit fee; and
  the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals performing the audit. 
The policy covers amongst other things:
a) monitoring the external auditors' independence (eg that the auditors and their immediate family
have no family, financial or employment relationship with the Company), and checking that the
Group engagement partner and audit senior manager do not work on the audit for a period in
excess of that permitted;
b) the identification of three categories of accounting services: audit-related services, which the
Company's auditors provide (such as interim and full-year reporting); prohibited services, which 
the Company's auditors may never provide; and potential services, which the Company's auditors
may in certain circumstances provide, subject to the policy (such as tax advisory services or services
where the auditors are acting as the Company's reporting accountants).  Prohibited services are
those which would result in:
  the external auditors auditing their own firm's work;
  the external auditors making management decisions for the Company;
  a mutuality of interest being created; or
  the external auditors being put in the role of advocate for the Company.
c) reporting at each meeting of the Audit Committee on non-audit services being provided 
by the auditors.