 Dee Valley Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 16
Corporate Governance
 
Compliance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. Save as explained below, the Group has, 
throughout the period under review, complied with the 
provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued in June 2010 (the Code ).
Directors and the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall management of 
the Group and for determining long-term objectives and 
strategy. The management of the Group's business is 
delegated to the executive Directors, subject to a formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved to the Board, 
which includes:
  Approval of the annual operating and capital 
expenditure budgets
 Changes to the Group's capital structure
 Approval of financial statements
 Dividend policy
 Approval of the Business Plan for submission to Ofwat
 Appointment of key professional advisers
  Approval of major capital projects and material 
contracts
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Managing 
Director, the Finance Director and two non-executive 
Directors considered by the Board to be independent. 
The Board normally meets at least six times a year, with 
further meetings as required in order to deal in a timely 
manner with items specifically reserved to the Board. 
During the year under review the Board met on ten 
occasions, with full attendance from all eligible Directors.
In order to keep their knowledge of the Group's operations 
up to date, non-executive Directors are also encouraged 
to attend monthly Board meetings of Dee Valley Water 
at which all managers are present and report on their 
respective areas of responsibility.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, and there is an agreed procedure for
Directors, if necessary, to take independent professional 
advice at the Company's expense in the furtherance of 
their duties. All Directors are subject to re-election by 
shareholders at intervals of no more than three years.
During the year, an internal review of the performance of 
the Board and of individual Directors was carried out. As 
part of the review, objectives have been set for the Board 
for the next 12 months.
The areas covered include:
 Planning for the next Periodic Review
 Succession planning for the Board
 Review of Group strategy
Progress in achieving these objectives will form part of 
the next review. The Company is not in compliance with 
Code Provision A.6.1 in that the performance of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees was not reviewed 
during the year.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board attaches high importance to communicating 
with all shareholders. Its policy is to be available for 
meetings with institutional shareholders in order to 
explain the Group's results, policies and future strategy. 
The meetings are normally attended by the Managing 
Director and Finance Director, who report the views of 
major shareholders to the Board. To the extent that none 
of the Company's non-executive Directors normally has 
direct face-to-face contact with major shareholders, the 
Company is not in full compliance with Code Provisions 
A.5.1, D.1.1 and D.1.2.
The Company encourages shareholder participation in 
Annual General Meetings. At such meetings, all Directors 
make themselves available to answer questions, either 
formally or informally, in respect of their responsibilities as a 
Board member or as a member of a Board Committee. All 
shareholders receive the full Annual and Interim Reports.
Remuneration Committee Report
The members of the Committee are Mr D T Weir 
(Chairman) and Mr J H Schofield, both being independent 
non-executive Directors, and Mr G R Scott, who was 
independent on appointment. Other Directors may attend 
committee meetings as required.
During the year under review, the Committee met formally 
on one occasion, with full attendance, and determined 
the remuneration package for the executive Directors 
and Chairman. No Director is involved in determining 
his own remuneration. Given the nature of the Group's 
business, the Committee does not feel it appropriate 
for performance-related elements to form a significant 
proportion of the total remuneration package of executive 
Directors, a non-compliance with Provision B.1.1 of the 
Code. www.deevalleygroup.com    Stock Code: DVW 17
Our Performance Our Governance Our Results Shareholder Information
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available 
from the Company Secretary on request and are 
also available on the Company's web site: 
www.deevalleygroup.com.
The Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 21 
contains an explanation of remuneration policy together 
with details of the remuneration paid to each Board 
member during the year.
Nomination Committee
The Company is not in compliance with Code Provision 
A.4.1 in that it does not have a continuing Nomination 
Committee. On the occurrence of a vacancy for a 
Director, the Board will form a Nomination Committee 
with a membership appropriate to the vacancy under 
consideration. When there are no vacancies, the 
continuing duties of the Nomination Committee are carried 
out by the Board; these duties mainly involve consideration 
of the composition of the Board and succession planning.
Audit Committee Report
The members of the Committee are Mr J H Schofield 
(Chairman) and Mr D T Weir, both being independent 
non-executive Directors. Other Directors and the external 
auditor may attend committee meetings as required. The 
Board is satisfied that Mr J H Schofield has recent and 
relevant financial experience. The duties of the Committee 
include:
  Monitoring the integrity of the Group's financial 
statements
  Reviewing the accounting polices and disclosures in 
financial reports
  Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
controls
  Making recommendations to the Board regarding 
the appointment of the Group's external auditor and 
approving its terms of engagement
  Assessing the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from 
the Company Secretary on request and are also available 
on the Company's web site: www.deevalleygroup.com. 
During the year under review, the Committee met on two 
occasions, with full attendance at both meetings.
Note 4 discloses the fees paid to the auditor for other 
services. In order to preserve auditor independence and 
objectivity, non audit work may only be awarded to the 
external auditor when the work is of such a nature that a 
detailed understanding of the Group is necessary, or when 
significant benefit can be gained from work previously 
carried out, for example tax advice or due diligence on 
transactions.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system 
of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management, and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the Group. Managers are responsible for the 
identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable 
to their areas of the business together with the design and 
operation of suitable internal controls. The risk register 
described in the Operating Review encompasses the 
significant risks across the business.
Risks are identified using standardised procedures 
covering expected consequences, likelihood, and 
mitigations. The executive Directors keep the risk register 
under continuous review and discuss it with the Board as 
part of the review of effectiveness of the Group's system 
of internal control. The Board also monitors key risk and 
performance indicators monthly.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the need for an 
internal audit function. The system of internal financial 
control is reviewed by the external auditor by means of 
reports arising from the statutory audit that are examined 
by the Audit Committee and reported on to the Board.
The shift during the year in Ofwat's approach to ensuring 
regulatory compliance by water companies included 
a significant change to regulatory reporting with the 
cessation of the annual June return. The June return 
was the data-intensive means by which Ofwat monitored 
companies for compliance with their regulatory obligations. 
Much of the data in the return tracked performance across 
non-financial areas of the business with the same data also 
being used internally for performance monitoring. Dee Valley Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 18
Technical auditors (called  reporters'), appointed by the 
water companies but reporting to Ofwat, ensured that 
the regulatory information was consistent, comparable, 
reliable and accurate. Each year, these reporters audited 
thoroughly companies' information collection procedures, 
consistency between their work and their procedures and 
policies, and that there was adequate quality assurance. 
The reporter for Dee Valley Water therefore provided the 
Board with considerable assurance on the adequacy of 
internal controls across the non-financial areas of the 
business.
During the year, the reporter's responsiblility to Ofwat 
ceased with the ending of the annual June return 
submission. The Board therefore decided to retain the 
technical auditor function to provide continued assurance.
The Board intends to monitor internal controls in general 
by means of self assessments, but will from time to 
time consider the need for independent reviews by risk 
specialists.
Going Concern
The Group's business activities together with the factors 
that are likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position are set out in the Operating and Financial 
Review on pages 6 to 12. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are also described in the Operating and Financial 
Review. In addition, notes 22 and 24 to the financial 
statements include the Group's objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments 
and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Corporate Governance continued
 