 47 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
An Introduction
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, 
AS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE, I AM PLEASED  
TO PRESENT THE REPORT  
IN RESPECT OF 2013.
The Audit Committee (the Committee ) has 
written terms of reference, which are available  
on the company's website, and include the 
responsibilities set out in Provision C.3.2 of  
the Code.
Ms J A Lodge chaired the Committee throughout 
the period under review. The other members of the 
Committee in 2013 were Mr P A J Neep and Mr P N 
Withers, throughout the year, and Mr G J Hoetmer 
who joined on 11 December 2013. The Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Board views Ms J A Lodge as the Committee 
member with both recent and relevant financial 
expertise as stipulated in Provision C.3.1 of the Code.
In the course of the year there were seven 
meetings. all of which were attended by the Group 
Finance Director, management, and the Group Risk 
and Control manager, as invitees. Representatives 
of the auditors also attend as required.
The Committee and the external auditors operate 
procedures to ensure that the auditors remain 
objective and independent. These procedures 
include the pre-approval of the scope of the audit 
by the Committee.
Jane Lodge
Chairman, Audit Committee 48 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Report of Directors
I 2 3 4
External audit
There are a number of processes used to judge the effectiveness of the external auditors of the group:
  A survey is coordinated by Internal Audit of all businesses within the group to assess the effectiveness of the group and  
local external audit teams. A summary of the results of this survey is reported to the Committee for its consideration. 
  The Committee receives a detailed audit plan from the external auditors at the beginning of the annual audit process which 
includes an outline of the proposed scope of the audit, identification of key audit risks and areas of focus. This is discussed 
and agreed with the Committee.
  The Committee challenges the work done by the external auditors to test management's assumptions and estimates in 
relation to the significant issues.
  At the completion of the external audit the Committee receives feedback from the Group Finance Director on how 
effectively issues were addressed at the external audit clearance meetings.
  Each member of the Committee completes an external auditor effectiveness questionnaire, the results of which are collated 
by Internal Audit and reported to the Committee for its consideration.
Based on the above processes and feedback, and its own on-going assessment of the external auditors' performance (for 
example through consideration of the external auditors' reports and interaction with the group audit partner) the Committee 
remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have acted as the group's external auditors since its formation in 1991. The current group audit 
partner is due to rotate off the audit following the 2016 reporting cycle. In accordance with the Financial Reporting Council's 
Guidance to Audit Committees issued in September 2012 and the findings of the Competition Commission issued in October 
2013, the company intends to put the audit out to tender at least once in each ten year period and intends the next tender 
process to occur no later than the date of the next group audit partner rotation.
Each year the Committee considers carefully the external auditors' independence and objectivity, taking into account the 
appropriate guidelines. The external auditors also report annually to the Committee on the actions they have taken to comply 
with professional and regulatory requirements, as well as current best practice, in order to demonstrate their independence. 
There are no contractual commitments restricting the Committee's choice of external auditors, and the Committee will continue 
to periodically review their performance.
As part of the formal annual review of the independence of the external auditors, the Committee also looks carefully at the level 
of non-audit work conducted by the auditors and the detailed safeguards which they have in place. In 2013 the policy covering 
the pre-approval of non-audit work was reviewed and clarified. The Committee is satisfied that there is no risk to the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditors arising from the level of non-audit fees. The fees paid to external auditors in 2013 are 
set out in Note 9 to the financial statements on page 86. Almost all of the non-audit fees relate to tax and pension advice. The 
Committee appreciates the sensitivity of the non-audit fees being higher than the audit fee, but believes that there are sound 
commercial and practical reasons for the tax and pension work being conducted by the relevant departments of the firm which 
conducts the audit. This will be kept under careful review.
The company's whistleblowing  procedures are also reviewed annually. In 2013, the Committee requested that consideration 
be given to an external whistleblowing system, and in the course of the year a new, confidential, multi-language system, entitled 
Speak Up , was set up and communicated to everyone in the group. The Committee believe that these arrangements will 
facilitate a proportionate and independent investigation of such matters.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(continued)
The Committee and the 
external auditors operate 
procedures to ensure that  
the auditors remain objective 
and independent. 49 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Significant issues
The significant issues considered by the Committee during 2013, and how these were addressed, are as follows:
Carrying value of inventory
The group has invested significantly in manufacturing capacity in recent years which has increased production volumes,  
with the expectation of significant sales growth. This has resulted in short term increases in inventory levels. The Committee  
has assessed the judgements of management over the carrying value of inventory and challenged assumptions over the 
recoverability of the carrying value by reviewing data on stock ageing and future sales projections. Additionally the Committee 
has discussed with management the continued appropriateness of the group's accounting policy with respect to provisioning 
for stock obsolescence, as well as reviewing the application of the policy during the year. This was also an area of focus 
identified by the external auditors, and accordingly they provided detailed reporting on this area to the Committee.
Development programme
The group has embarked on a two-year development programme and as part of this has approved significant capital 
expenditure to construct new manufacturing plants in the USA and China. This gives rise to a number of areas of judgement 
including whether related amounts should be expensed as incurred or capitalised, and whether any existing assets should be 
impaired or useful lives should be amended. Where amounts have been expensed, judgement is also required to determine 
whether these amounts should be disclosed as exceptional items, taking account of their nature and size, and in particular 
whether they are incremental to normal operations. The Committee has addressed these matters through reviewing and 
discussing reports from management outlining the nature and amount of the relevant costs and the proposed accounting 
treatment. Additionally, the Committee has been provided with information in relation to the existing assets that will be replaced 
as a result of the investment, including the proposed revised useful economic lives, to enable it to assess and challenge 
management's judgement related to accelerated depreciation or potential impairment. The external auditors have also focused 
on this area and have reported their assessment to the Committee.
Valuation of net pension obligations
The group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes across the world. Valuation of these schemes is dependent 
on certain key assumptions and complex calculations. External actuaries are engaged to assist in advising on key assumptions 
and determining the value of the pension obligations. In addition there have been changes to pensions accounting (IAS 19, 
Employee benefits ) which have been adopted by the group during the year. These areas have been addressed by the Committee 
through receiving reports from management outlining the key assumptions, the resulting valuations from actuaries and the 
accounting changes made following the adoption of the revised pension accounting requirements. The Committee discussed 
these topics with management and challenged the key assumptions, including the degree to which these were supported by 
professional advice from the actuaries. The external auditors have also focused attention on this area and provided reporting  
to the Committee on this matter, following consultation with their own actuarial experts.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Committee acknowledges that, taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts need to be fair, balanced and understandable 
in order to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the company's performance, business model and 
strategy. The Committee advises the Board on whether it believes that the annual report and accounts meet this requirement. 
In order for the Committee to make this assessment it considers reports from management received during the year, 
monitoring financial performance and at year end in support of the financial statements, and also reports from the external 
auditors on the findings of their annual audit. Formal review processes are in place to ensure the annual report and accounts  
are factually accurate. 
The responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual report and accounts is on page 67.