 Agriterra Limited Annual report and financial statements 2012/2013 18
Corporate governance
The board of directors is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and the directors support the UK 
Corporate Governance Code as far as it is appropriate to the Group's size and its stage of development. Set out below is a summary of 
how, at 31 May 2013, the Group was dealing with corporate governance issues.
The board of directors
The Group is led and controlled by a board comprising the Chairman, the Chief Executive, an executive director and one non executive 
director. The board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, budgets and corporate actions.
There are no matters specifically reserved to the board for its decision, but no decision of any consequence is made other than by the 
directors. There is no separate nomination committee due to the current size of the board and any new directors are appointed by the 
whole board.
There is no agreed formal procedure for the directors to take independent professional advice at the Group's expense.
The Group has adopted a share dealing code for directors' dealings which is considered appropriate for an AIM quoted company. 
The directors comply with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules relating to directors' dealings and take all reasonable steps to ensure compliance 
by the Group's employees.
The Company's directors submit themselves for re election at the Annual General Meeting at regular intervals in accordance with the 
Company's Articles of Incorporation.
The Company has remuneration and audit committees comprising PH Edmonds and MN Pelham.
Directors' remuneration
The remuneration committee reviews the performance of the directors and makes recommendations to the board on matters relating 
to the directors' remuneration and other terms of employment. The committee makes recommendations to the board on the granting of 
share options and other equity incentives and will administer any equity incentive schemes. The committee is chaired by PH Edmonds.
Details of the remuneration of each director are set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
Accountability and audit 
The audit committee is responsible for ensuring that the Group's financial performance and position is properly monitored, controlled 
and reported. The committee has unrestricted access to the auditor. It has met once during the year and has reviewed the report from the 
auditor relating to the accounts and internal controls. The committee is also responsible for reviewing the scope and results of the audit, 
its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor. A formal statement of independence has been received from the 
external auditor for the year. The committee is chaired by PH Edmonds.
Relations with shareholders 
The chairman is the Company's principal spokesperson with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties. At the 
Annual General Meeting, investors are given the opportunity to question the board.
Internal control 
The board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Group's systems of internal control. Although no system of 
internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Group's systems are designed to provide the 
directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and considers the major business risks and the control 
environment. In addition to being unable to renew its licenses to import maize meal, during the year, it became evident that the Group did 
not have formal legal control of its operation in Zimbabwe. Full impairment of the assets has been made and included in discontinued 
activities. In the subsidiaries comprising continuing activities, no significant control deficiencies have come to light during the year and 
no weakness in internal financial control has resulted in material losses, contingencies or uncertainties which would require disclosure 
as recommended by the guidance for directors on reporting on internal financial control.
In light of this control environment the board considers that there is no current requirement for a separate internal audit function.
Compliance with relevant legislation
All directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks with the assistance of the Company's 
legal advisers and auditor where appropriate. The directors have taken appropriate legal advice and implemented internal training and 
reporting procedures to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010 (the Bribery Act ) and the Prevention of Corruption (Bailiwick 
of Guernsey) Law, 2003 which contains broadly similar restrictions. Notwithstanding the fact that the Company is not UK-resident, the 
directors have formed a view that it is appropriate for the Company to maintain compliance with the Bribery Act. Business review
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Agriterra Limited Annual report and financial statements 2012/2013 19
Going concern
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Chairman's statement and operational review on pages 4 to 14 and the risks facing agricultural businesses are outlined below. 
Note 3 to the financial statements includes the Group's objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The board has detailed its considerations relating to going concern in note 4 of the financial statements.
Risks and uncertainties
There are a number of risks and uncertainties facing the Group, principally the following:
Foreign exchange
The Group conducts its operations in jurisdictions other than its reporting currency and therefore is subject to fluctuations in exchange 
rates. Some of the countries in which the Group operates maintain strict controls on access to foreign currency and the repatriation 
of funds.
Risks associated with operating in Africa
Changes in government, monetary policies, taxation, exchange control and other laws can have a significant impact on the Group's assets 
and operations. Several countries in Africa have experienced periods of political instability, and there can be no guarantees as to the level 
of future political stability. Changes to government policies and applicable laws could adversely affect the operations and/or financial 
condition of the Group. The jurisdictions in which the Group might operate in the future may have less developed legal systems than more 
established economies, which could result in risks such as (i) effective legal redress in the courts being more difficult to obtain;  
(ii) a higher degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities; and (iii) the lack of judicial or administrative guidance on 
interpreting applicable rules and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, the commitment of local business people, government officials and 
agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be more uncertain, creating particular 
concerns with respect to the Group's licenses and agreements for business. These may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and 
legal redress may be uncertain or delayed.
Regulatory risk
While the Group believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with all relevant material environmental and health 
and safety laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that new laws and regulations, or amendments to or stringent enforcement 
of, existing laws and regulations will not be introduced, which could have a material adverse impact on the Group.
Land ownership in Mozambique
Under the laws of Mozambique, proprietary rights in land are exclusive to the state. The Mozambique constitution proscribes the state's 
rights of ownership and the power and ability to determine the conditions for the use and development of land by individual or corporate 
persons. The land cannot be sold, mortgaged or encumbered in any way or by any means. The state grants the right to use and develop 
the land which is evidenced by a Use and Development of Land License (DUAT ) which allows the title holder to build and register any 
infrastructure under its name on such land. DECA, Compagri and Mozbife's operations are dependent on obtaining and maintaining the 
relevant DUATs, and whilst there is currently no indication that the relevant DUATs are invalid, there can be no guarantees that this will 
not change in future.
Growing season 
The Group anticipates a six month buying/growing season for maize and a similar profile for cocoa. However matters outside the control 
of the Group, such as adverse weather conditions, could impact upon the amount of production achieved by local farmers in any year, 
which could consequently have adverse effects on the Group's business and profit margins.