 36 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | Section 3 | Management and governance
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is chaired by Russ Shaw, 
who is assisted by Chris Burke and Peter Weber. The responsibility of  
the Committee, among other things, is to determine, subject to Board 
approval, the salaries and incentives of Dialog's senior executives and 
decide on the size and composition of the Board. Corporate Governance  
is monitored at Board level - a reflection of the importance it is given  
by the Board. 
During the year, the Audit, and Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees met frequently to analyse issues under their jurisdiction, 
usually on the day of, or the day before, each Board meeting.
TRANSPARENCY
Under UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, significant Shareholders are 
required to notify Dialog of a shareholding of 3% or more. Dialog must 
then notify BaFin and the Stock Exchange. Under S.15a of the German 
Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz) transactions in the 
Company's shares carried out by members of the Board of Directors  
and their family members are reported and published without delay. 
Our shares are listed with Clearstream Germany as legal owner. As far as 
we are aware, those holding a significant beneficial interest (>3%) in our 
Company as of 31 December 2011 were:
The Dialog Employee Benefit Trust (1.95%); Robert Citrone and Discovery 
Capital Management LLC (5.61%) as notified on 8 December 2010;  
JP Morgan (4.86%) as notified on 4 May 2010; X-FAB Semiconductor 
Foundries AG (4.62%) as notified by email on 19 January 2012; Allianz 
Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH (3.64%) as notified on  
2 October 2009.
The Company operates a Code of Dealing in its shares which is designed 
to prevent insider trading and the abuse of price sensitive information. 
The Board appreciates the value of keeping Shareholders informed  
of Dialog's performance throughout the year. As a result, it publishes 
quarterly financial reports, together with key information on the AGM,  
on its Website.
TAKEOVERS DIRECTIVE
At 31 December 2011, the Company's issued share capital comprised  
a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. Details of the share 
capital can be found in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder  
of shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote, and  
on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote 
shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. The notice of the general 
meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy 
notice or by presence in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be 
passed at a general meeting. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers 
for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at  
the AGM and published on the Company's Website after the meeting. 
GOVERNANCE STANDARDS
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is committed to implementing high levels of 
governance. Accordingly, Dialog (as a foreign company listed on the 
German stock exchange) has established and published its own Corporate 
Governance principles, corresponding in substance to the provision of  
the German Declaration on Corporate Governance . 
Dialog's Corporate Governance principles are published on its Website 
(www.dialog-semiconductor.com). The Website also contains a full version 
of the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This details 
Dialog's expectations regarding the ethical standards that each Director, 
officer and employee should follow while acting on the Company's behalf.
Corporate Governance information relating to the past financial year  
is set out below.
SHAREHOLDERS AND THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM )
The AGM, at which the annual financial statements and audit reports  
are presented, is the main forum for Shareholders to exercise their voting 
rights. Directors appointed by the Board during any given year are subject 
to Shareholder approval at the AGM. 
In addition, one-third of the Directors must resign each year and may put 
themselves forward for re-election. Changes to the constitution of the 
Company are decided by Shareholders' resolution. Similarly, the AGM  
is the forum at which Shareholders can authorise the Directors to issue 
new shares. 
Dialog does not have any shares in issue which have multiple voting rights, 
preferential voting rights or maximum voting rights.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board is responsible for determining Dialog's business strategy and 
ensuring that an executive is appointed to implement it. 
It is also responsible for overseeing the financial aspects of the business. 
The Board, which met five times during the year, currently consists of seven 
non-executive Directors and one executive Director. The compensation 
provided to each Director is detailed in the Directors' remuneration  
report on pages 38 to 40. The executive Director's remuneration is largely 
performance related and is connected to a set of goals determined by 
the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE, AND REMUNERATION AND 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Dialog's Audit Committee comprises the following Directors: Aidan Hughes 
(Chairman), John McMonigall and Peter Tan. The Committee is responsible 
for monitoring financial statements and reviewing the performance of  
the external auditors. It also assesses the efficiency of the audit process 
and (among other things) considers compliance with accounting standards. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary 
and representatives of the external auditors usually attend Audit 
Committee meetings. 
Corporate Governance 37
BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
Dialog seeks to comply with all laws and regulations that have an impact 
on its business. In addition, the Company expects its employees and 
Directors to act with honesty, integrity and fairness in the conduct of its 
business. Dialog's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is published on 
the Company's Website.
Dialog is committed to taking account of interests outside the Company, 
including those of employees, business partners, the environment and the 
local communities on which it has an impact. The Board values, and has 
developed, a culture of corporate social responsibility that takes the above 
factors into consideration.
AUDIT AND AUDITORS
The consolidated financial statements have been audited by Dialog's 
auditors, Ernst and Young (E&Y ). E&Y were appointed in October 2006 
following a tender process.
The remuneration given to the auditors over the past two financial years  
is detailed in notes 3 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements on 
pages 65 and 101.
The Company's audited financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2010, and the reports from the Directors and auditors 
thereon, were presented to, and approved by, the Shareholders at the 
AGM of the Company held on 21 April 2011. E&Y, the Company's 
independent auditors, were reappointed until the following AGM.
Given the acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. (SiTel ) on 10 February 
2011, the Board has requested that Kevin Harkin, the Senior Statutory 
Auditor, extend his period of service from five years to seven years (to end 
with audit of the 31 December 2012 annual report). The Board believes 
that this will give the Group greater stability and more comfort over audit 
quality over the next two years as SiTel is integrated into the Group. After 
due consideration, Kevin Harkin and Ernst & Young LLP have accepted  
this request and have advised that they will implement additional review 
procedures in order to mitigate any potential risk of familiarity impairing 
their independence. 
DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY WITH REGARD TO THE GERMAN 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
Dialog Semiconductor Plc has established and published its own Corporate 
Governance principles corresponding in substance to the provisions of the 
German Corporate Governance Code  as amended on 14 June 2007, 
thereby adopting in substance the recommendations of the Government 
Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code. This declaration 
is available on the internet at: www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
GREGORIO REYES
CHAIRMAN
16 February 2012
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company 
other than:
   certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, insider trading laws);
   employees of the Company are not allowed to trade in shares or 
exercise options in certain close periods (such close periods normally 
start two weeks before the end of each quarter and end 48 hours  
after the release of the financial results).
Details of changes in share capital can be found in note 18 to the 
consolidated financial statements. Besides that, the Company did not 
purchase its own shares and the Company holds no shares in treasury. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights. 
Dialog has an Employee Benefit Trust which holds Dialog shares for the 
benefit of employees, including for the purpose of satisfying awards made 
under the various employee and executive share plans. The trustee may 
vote the shares as it sees fit, and if there is an offer for the shares the 
trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the offer but will have regard  
to the interests of the employees and may consult them to obtain their 
views on the offer and may otherwise take action with respect to the  
offer it thinks fair.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that 
occur because of a takeover bid. The agreements between the Company 
and its Directors for compensation for loss of office are given in the 
Directors' remuneration report on page 38.
The Company's Articles of Association may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of Shareholders.
INTERNAL CONTROL
In accordance with the EU Transparency Directive (DTR 7.2.5), Dialog's 
Board of Directors and Audit Committee acknowledge that they are 
responsible for the Company's processes of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. Such processes are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks it faces. This process is reviewed in 
accordance with the EU Transparency Directive. The process was in place 
during 2011 and up to the date of the approval of the 2011 annual report 
and financial statements.
The Company's Board and Audit Committee can confirm that necessary 
actions have been taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses 
identified from these process reviews.