 DICOM Group is committed to high standards of
corporate governance. Having reviewed its
compliance with the Combined Code the Board
confirms that the Company has, throughout the
year , complied with all aspects of the Code, except
that the role of chairman and chief executive was
combined and that the chief executive was a
member of the remuneration committee as well as
there was no absolute requirement for each
Director to retire at least every three years. 
The roles of non-executive chairman and chief
executive are now split. The remuneration
committee now only comprises non-executive
directors. The proposed changes to the Articles of
association ensure compliance with the Combined
Code in relation to the re-election of directors. 
This statement explains how the Board has set out
to ensure that the Group has an effective system
of corporate governance and provides details of
the procedures the Board has established to apply
the principles set out in the Combined Code.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board leads and maintains full and effective
control over the Company's activities. The
Company has now separate posts of Chairman and
Chief Executive and, in addition, the Board
currently comprises three other Executive
Directors and four independent Non-executive
Directors. Short biographies of all of the directors
are set out on pages 27 to 28 of this report. The
Board considers that the balance of its constitution
brings both independence and an appropriate
balance of experience in judging matters of
strategy, performance, resources, investor
relations, internal controls and corporate
governance.
The Board meets at least eight times each year ,
either physically or by conference call, with
additional meetings and contact between the
meetings as necessary. The Board has a schedule
of matters reserved for its consideration. These
Annual Report 2002
31
include the Group's strategic plans and annual and
mid term operating plans, business acquisitions
and disposals of companies, major litigation and
employee share schemes.
All directors have access to the services of the
Company Secretary for any information or advice
they may require. In addition they may take
independent professional advice if necessary at
the Company's expense.
When new members are appointed to the Board,
they are provided with advice from the Company's
solicitors in respect of their role and duties as a
public company director .
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct
Board meetings and meetings of shareholders, to
ensure that all directors are properly briefed for a
full and constructive part in Board discussions, to
develop and lead business strategies and
processes. There is a clear distinction between the
Chairman's role and that of the Chief Executive
who is responsible for managing the Group's day
to day business. 
This separation of responsibilities, together with
the ratio of board membership between executive
and non-executive directors, ensures there is a
balance of power and authority at the head of the
Company. The views of all directors are taken into
account in the decision-making process.
Bruce Powell has been designated the senior Non-
executive director . Any concerns relating to the
executive management of the Company or the
performance of the other Non-executive Directors
may be raised with him. 
To enable the Board to function effectively and
directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and
timely access is given to all relevant information. In
the case of Board meetings, this consists of a
comprehensive set of papers, including regular
business progress reports and discussion
documents regarding specific matters. 
C ORPOR A TE GO VERNANCE
S TA TEMENT Appointments to the Board of both Executive and
Non-executive Directors are considered by the
Nomination Committee. The Remuneration
Committee considers any remuneration package
before it is offered to a potential Board appointee. 
The provisions of the Company's Articles of
Association require that the number of Directors
nearest to, but not greater than, one third retire
by rotation each year and seek re-election at the
Annual General Meeting. The directors required to
retire are those in office longest since their
previous re-election. The amended Articles of
Association requires that no director shall
continue to hold office as a director after the third
Annual General Meeting following his election or
re-election without submitting himself for re-
election at the said third Annual General Meeting.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities
to Board committees which operate within defined
terms of reference, reporting regularly to the
Board and include:
Audit Committee: assists the Board in fulfilling its
overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the
reporting of financial and non-financial
information to shareholders, the system of
internal control and risk management, and the
audit process. The Committee consists of Bruce
Powell (Chairman), Otto Schmid and John
Incledon and meets at least four times a year . The
meetings are normally attended by the Finance
Director and the external auditors. The Committee
also keeps under review the independence and
objectivity of the external auditors. The
Committee reviews further the nature and
amount of non-audit work undertaken by BDO
Stoy Hayward (BDO) each year to satisfy itself
that there is no effect on their independence. BDO
are also subject to professional standards which
safeguard the integrity of the auditing role they
perform on behalf of the shareholders. 
DICOM Group plc
32
Remuneration Committee: ensures the executive
directors and the Executive management team
are appropriately rewarded. The Committee
comprises Paul Gerny (Chairman), Otto Schmid
and John Incledon and meets at least three times
a year . The Committee does not retain
remuneration consultants but seeks professional
advice as required. 
Nomination Committee: keeps under review the
Board structure, size and composition; selects and
proposes to the Board suitable candidates for
appointment as directors of the Group, and
considers Board successional plans. The
Committee comprises all Non-executive Directors,
is chaired by Otto Schmid, and meets as required. 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION 
Full details of Directors' remuneration and a
statement of the Company's remuneration policy
is set out on pages 34 to 35. The Chief Executive
attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee
to discuss the performance of the other Executive
Directors and make proposals as necessary, but
takes no part in deliberations when his own
position is being discussed.
Each Executive Director abstains from any
discussion or voting at full Board meetings on
Remuneration Committee recommendations
where the recommendations have a direct
bearing on his own remuneration package. The
details of each Executive Director's individual
package are fixed by the committee in line with
the policy adopted by the full Board.
COMMUNICATIONS
The Company is committed to ongoing
communication with current and prospective
shareholders through regular annual and interim
reports, quarterly financial statements and other
trading statements, as well as via the AGM.
The Company's website at
http://www.dicomgroup.com contains both Annual Report 2002
33
corporate and customer information, updated on
a regular basis. Regular dialogue and
presentations take place with both institutional
and private shareholders through the Company's
investor relations programme.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board has overall responsibility for the
Group's approach to assessing risk and the
systems of internal control, and for monitoring
their effectiveness. This includes financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk
management procedures. This process, regularly
reviewed by the Directors, is carried out in
conjunction with business planning and is
documented in a risk register . 
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any
system of internal control, this system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives and can only
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group has well established procedures which
have been developed over many years for
identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group. A key control
procedure is the day-to-day involvement of
executive members of the Board and Group
management in all aspects of the business and
their attendance at regular management
meetings of the operating companies at which
performance against plan and business prospects
are reviewed. Additionally, the Board seeks to
continually strengthen the internal control system
where this is consistent with improving the
relationship between risk and reward.
Other key features and the processes for
reviewing effectiveness of the internal control
system are described below: 
  Board approved medium term strategy and
budget plans for each operating company.
  terms of reference for the Board and its
subcommittees, including a schedule of matters
reserved for the Board and an agreed annual
programme of fixed agenda items for Board
approval.
  an established organisational structure with
clear lines of responsibility and rigorous
reporting requirements for each operating
company.
  managers for each operating company being
clearly accountable for establishing and
maintaining internal controls within their
respective companies.
  reviews of monthly management reports,
quarterly reviews of business re-forecasts and
reviews of performance indicators by the Board
following approval of the annual group budget.
  operational controls in human resources
management, information technology and asset
security.
  appropriate monitoring of key suppliers to the
Group. 
The Directors each year considers the need for a
full time internal audit function in light of the
nature of its business and the complexity of
transactions. At present, the size of the business
is at a scale that does not justify the need for a
full-time internal audit function. Group Executives
perform periodic internal audits on main areas of
activity at subsidiaries, which are reported to the
Directors to provide assurance that the system of
internal control is functioning as intended.
GOING CONCERN
The directors believe, after making enquiries
which they consider to be appropriate, that the
Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.