 42
share options under the existing share
option plans and to make awards under
the long-term incentive plans. The
Remuneration Committee considers
there to be an appropriate balance
between fixed and variable remuneration
and between short- and long-term
variable components of remuneration. 
All the decisions of the Remuneration
Committee on remuneration matters in
2006/7 were reported to and endorsed
by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee's terms of
reference explaining the Remuneration
Committee's role and the authority
delegated to it by the Board are publicly
available on the Group's website.
audit committee
All members of the Audit Committee are
Non-Executive Directors. The Board is
confident that the collective experience 
of the Audit Committee members enables
them, as a group, to act as an effective
Audit Committee. Their details are
disclosed on pages 14,15 and 37. 
remuneration committee
The composition of the Remuneration
Committee is disclosed on page 37 
and comprises solely Non-Executive
Directors. The Remuneration Committee,
on behalf of the Board, meets as and
when necessary to review and approve
as appropriate the remuneration of the
Executive Directors and Senior
Management and major remuneration
plans for the Group as a whole. The
Remuneration Committee appraises 
the Chief Executive against his written
objectives. Similarly, the Chief Executive
appraises the other Executive Directors
and Senior Management. The
Remuneration Committee approves 
the setting of objectives for all of the
Executive Directors and authorises their
annual bonus payments for achievement
of objectives. The Remuneration
Committee provides remuneration
packages sufficient to attract, retain and
motivate Executive Directors required to
run the Group successfully, but does 
not pay more than is necessary for this
service. The Remuneration Committee is
empowered to recommend the grant of
5. statement on corporate governance
The Group is subject to the continuing requirements of the AIM Rules
and is committed to adhering to corporate governance standards
appropriate for a company of its size. The Group follows the Quoted
Companies Alliance guidelines and has remuneration, audit and
nomination committees with written terms of reference and a schedule
of matters reserved for the Board. 43
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit
Committee may be attended by the 
Chief Executive, Finance Director and the
auditors. Prior to the financial year end, the
Audit Committee met once but, on an on-
going basis, will meet at least twice each
year as detailed in its terms of reference.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee
meets regularly with the auditors.
The Audit Committee has particular
responsibility for monitoring the
adequacy and effectiveness of the
operation of internal controls and risk
management and ensuring that the
Group's financial statements present 
a true and fair view of the Group's
financial position. Its duties include
keeping under review the scope 
and results of the audit and its 
cost-effectiveness, consideration 
of management's response to any 
major audit recommendation and 
the independence and objectivity 
of the auditors.
The Audit Committee's terms of
reference explaining the Audit
Committee's role and the authority
delegated to it by the Board are publicly
available on the Group's website.
nomination committee
The composition of the Nomination
Committee is disclosed on page 37 and
comprises a majority of Non-Executive
Directors. The Nomination Committee
did not meet during the year ending 
31 March 2007. The Nomination
Committee has responsibility for
nominating to the Board candidates for
appointment as Directors, bearing in
mind the need for a broad representation
of skills across the Board. 
The Nomination Committee's terms of
reference explaining the Nomination
Committee's role and the authority
delegated to it by the Board are publicly
available on the Group's website. 44
2006/07 board and committee meetings
Between the date of the AIM Listing (26 October 2006) and the year
end of 31 March 2007, the Board met 5 times. The following table
shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its
main committees:
02-Oct-06 28-Nov-06 22-Jan-07 26-Jan-07 02-Feb-07 13-Feb-07
Stephen
Davidson
yes yes yes yes yes yes 
Ben
Langdon
yes yes yes yes yes yes 
Robert
Millington
in
attendance
yes yes yes yes yes 
Gary
Stevens
in
attendance
yes yes yes yes yes 
Barry
Jenner
in
attendance
yes yes yes yes yes 
Ian
Robinson
yes yes yes yes yes yes 
Andrew
Wilson
yes yes yes yes yes no
02-Oct-06 26-Jan-07 13-Feb-07
Barry Jenner
Chairman
yes yes yes 
Stephen Davidson yes yes yes 
Ian Robinson yes yes yes 
Andrew Wilson no yes no 
reference to  in attendance' relates to a Board Meeting before formal appointment.
board meetings
remuneration committee meetings  45
directors' remuneration
Details of the Group's remuneration
policy and directors' remuneration are
contained in the Directors' Remuneration
Report on pages 47 to 53.
relations with shareholders 
The Group recognises the importance of
communicating with its shareholders to
ensure that its strategy and performance 
is understood and that it remains
accountable to shareholders. The Board
as a whole is responsible for ensuring that
a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders
takes place, while the Chairman and 
Chief Executive ensure that the views of
the shareholders are communicated to the
Board as a whole. The Board ensures 
that the Group's strategic plans have been
carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to
deliver long-term shareholder value. Interim
Statements and fully audited Annual
Reports will be sent to shareholders and
posted on the Group's website.
Shareholders are welcome at the Group's
Annual General Meeting (AGM), (notice of
which is provided with this Report), where
they will have an opportunity to meet the
Board. The Chairman of the Audit
Committee and the Remuneration
Committee, together with as many
Directors as possible, will attend the AGM
and be available to answer shareholders'
questions. Voting may be by form of
proxy, by poll, by show of hands or a
combination of all three. The voting results
will be notified to the UK Listing Authority
through a Regulatory Information service
immediately after the meeting and will be
published on the Group's website.
The Group obtains feedback from its
broker on the views of institutional
investors on a non-attributed and
attributed basis and any concerns 
of major shareholders would be
communicated to the Board.
internal controls
The Board acknowledges its responsibility
for establishing and maintaining the
Group's system of internal controls and
will continue to ensure that management
keep these processes under regular
review and improve them where
appropriate. The system of internal
controls is designed to manage, rather
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
Management Structure: there is a
clearly defined organisational structure
throughout the Group with established
lines of reporting and delegation of
authority based on job responsibilities 
and experience.
Financial Reporting: monthly
management accounts provide relevant,
reliable, up-to-date financial and non-
financial information to management and
the Board. Annual plans, forecasts and
performance targets allow management
to monitor the key business and financial
activities and the progress towards
achieving the financial objectives. The
annual budget is approved by the Board. 
19-Oct-06
Ian Robinson
Chairman
yes
Stephen Davidson yes 
Andrew Wilson yes 
Robert Millington in attendance
audit committee meetings
The following shows the Audit
Committee Meeting held to appoint 
our Auditors. No further meeting of the
Audit Committee was held prior to the
year end. 46
Employment
At a subsidiary level each individual
company has established policies which
address key corporate objectives in the
management of employee relations,
communications and employee
involvement, training and personal
development and equal opportunities.
The Board recognises its legal
responsibilities to ensure the well-being,
safety and welfare of its employees and
to maintain a safe and healthy working
environment for them and for its visitors
and sub-contractors. Health and Safety
is on the agenda for regularly scheduled
Board meetings.
Environment
By their nature, the Group's regular
operations are judged to have a low
environmental impact and are not
expected to give rise to any significant,
inherent environmental risks over the
next 12 months.
Monitoring of Controls: It is intended
that the Audit Committee receives regular
reports from the auditors and assures
itself that the internal control environment
of the Group is operating effectively. 
There are formal policies and procedures
in place to ensure the integrity and
accuracy of the accounting records and to
safeguard the Group's assets. Significant
capital projects and acquisitions and
disposals require Board approval. 
Going Concern
After due consideration, the Directors
have a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
corporate social
responsibility
The Board recognises the growing
awareness of social, environmental and
ethical matters and it endeavours to take
into account the interests of the Group's
stakeholders, including its investors,
employees, suppliers and business
partners, when operating the business. 