 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
30
John Matthews
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises John Matthews 
(Chairman), John Rennocks and Ian Grice. Both John 
Matthews and John Rennocks are chartered 
accountants who have recent and relevant financial 
experience, as required by the Code. 
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended 
by the Executive Directors and the external auditor. In 
addition, the Chairman of the Committee meets privately 
with the external auditor at least twice each year. The 
Secretary to the Committee is Nigel Lingwood. 
Role of the Committee 
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are 
set out in written terms of reference which are available 
on the Company's website (www.diplomaplc.com).  
They are as follows:
 	 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Group and any formal announcements relating to 
the Group's financial performance, reviewing 
significant financial judgements contained therein;
 	 to review the Group's internal controls systems and 
risk management procedures;
 	 to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put 
to shareholders for approval in general meeting, in 
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the external auditor and to approve the 
terms of engagement of the external auditor;
 	 to review and monitor the external auditor's 
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of 
the audit process taking into consideration relevant 
UK professional and regulatory requirements;
 	 to develop and implement policy on the engagement 
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, 
taking into account relevant guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by the external 
auditor;
 	 to report to the Board, identifying any matters in 
respect of which it considers that action or 
improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken; and
 	 to consider annually whether there is a need for a 
formal internal audit function and make 
recommendation to the Board.
n umber of Committee Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2011
John Matthews (Chairman) 7/7
John Rennocks 7/7
Ian Grice 7/7
In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role 
to play through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the 
auditor relationship and auditor independence. The 
Committee reviewed the audit engagement in 2008 and 
following an audit tender process, recommended to the 
Board the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor to the 
Company and Group.
The Committee has also established a set of guidelines 
covering the type of non-audit work that can be 
assigned to the external auditor. These relate to further 
assurance services - where the auditor's detailed 
knowledge of the Group's affairs means that they may  
be best placed to carry out such work. This extends to, 
but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, 
regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in 
connection with disposals. Work in connection with 
acquisitions, including due diligence reviews, is generally 
not provided by the auditor, but is placed with other firms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the 
auditor; a separate firm is retained to provide tax 
advice, including any assistance with tax compliance 
matters generally, except in Canada and Denmark, 
where the auditor provides some assistance on the 
tax computations.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are 
put out to tender and decisions to award work taken 
on the basis of demonstrable competence and 
cost effectiveness.
The Committee receives an annual report which provides 
details of any assignments and related fees carried out by 
the auditor in addition to their normal audit work, and 
these are reviewed against the above guidelines.
The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved 
the arrangements by which Company employees may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible irregularities in 
financial reporting or other matters (so called 
whistleblowing  procedures).
Corporate Governance continued
Audit Committee 31
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Activities During the Year
The Audit Committee assists the Board in assuring the 
integrity of the financial statements and related disclosures. 
During the current year, the Committee carried out the 
following work:
 	 at its meetings in May and November, the Committee 
reviewed the Interim Report and the Annual Report & 
Accounts respectively. On both occasions, the 
Committee received reports from the Group Finance 
Director and from the external auditor identifying any 
accounting or judgemental issues requiring its 
attention; 
 	 in September the Committee met with the external 
auditor to discuss their audit plan process;
 	 in January and August the Committee met to approve 
formal Interim Management Statements which were 
released to the market, in accordance with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules; and
 	 the Committee met on two further occasions during 
the year to review Trading Updates which the 
Company issued to the market. 
During the meetings, the Committee reviewed the 
information included in the Annual Report & Accounts  
to ensure that the information provided a fair review  
of the Group's business. It also reviewed the external  
audit management letter and the procedures designed 
to ensure that the external auditor was aware of all 
relevant audit information , as required by the 
Companies Act 2006.
The Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and the report on the external 
auditor's own quality control procedures. This 
assessment covers all aspects of the audit service 
provided by the Company's external auditor. 
Risk Management and internal Control
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement  
or loss. 
The Board has established a clear organisational 
structure with defined authority levels. The day to day 
running of the Group's business is delegated to the 
Executive Directors of the Company. The Executive 
Directors visit each operating unit on a regular basis and 
meet with both operational and finance management 
and staff.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a 
weekly and/or monthly basis and are measured against 
both budget and interim forecasts which have been 
approved and reviewed by the Board. On an annual 
basis, each business unit is required to prepare a risk 
assessment process on the key strategic, operational, 
financial and accounting risks to identify, evaluate and 
manage the significant risks to the Group's business. 
They include common definitions of risk and ensure, as 
far as practicable, that the policies and procedures 
established by the Board are appropriate to manage the 
perceived risks to the Group. These assessments are 
supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key 
financial controls of the business units which are critically 
reviewed by the Group's internal auditor. The Committee 
will annually review the results of these assessments and 
identify the key strategic and operating risks of the 
Group. During the year, the risk assessment process 
revealed no significant risks of which the Board was not 
previously aware.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to 
have the largest potential impact on the Group's long 
term performance are set out on pages 20 to 23.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group's risk management and internal control systems. 
Taking into account the processes that have been 
designed and implemented for 2011, the Board, with the 
advice of the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the risk management and internal control systems for 
the period from 1 October 2010 to the date of this report 
and is satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk 
management and internal control systems.
internal Audit
The Group's finance department includes a full time 
internal auditor and a full programme of internal audit 
visits has been completed during the year. The scope of 
work carried out by internal audit generally focuses on 
the internal financial controls and risk management 
procedures operating within each business. Written 
reports are prepared on the results of each visit which 
sets out weaknesses identified during the work, together 
with recommendations to improve the control 
environment. These reports are reviewed and discussed 
with the Executive Directors. 
At the conclusion of the year, the internal auditor reports 
to the Committee on the results of the audit work carried 
out in the year and agrees an audit plan for the following 
financial year. There were no significant weaknesses 
identified during these audits, but a number of 
recommendations were made to improve internal review 
processes and risk management procedures, particularly 
in businesses where the opportunity to segregate duties 
was limited. 
The Committee continues to keep under review the 
need for a fully independent internal audit function in the 
Group. The Committee remains satisfied that the Group's 
system of internal control is appropriate for a group of 
the size and nature of Diploma PLC and the Committee's 
current view is that a separate formal independent 
internal audit function is not necessary.