 36
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Diploma PLC
Corporate Responsibility
Employees
Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation 
and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as 
being key to achieving the Group's business objectives. The 
stability and commitment of the employees is demonstrated 
by the average length of service which has remained strong. 
In addition the number of working days lost to sickness is less 
than 1% a year. These measures remain consistent across each 
of the Group's Sectors. 
Key Employee Statistics
2013 2012 2011
Average number of employees 
in year 1,145 1,062 910
Females as % of total 35% 33% 32%
Length of service (years) 6.2 6.0 6.3
Average staff turnover 20.4% 16.7% 16.3%
Sick days lost per person 2.2 2.3 1.9
Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by 
gender at the year end.
2013 2012
male Female male Female
Directors 6 1 6 -
Senior Managers 55 17 46 13
Employees 695 385 696 356
756 403 748 369
The Group values the commitment of its employees and 
recognises the importance of communication to good working 
relationships. The Group keeps employees informed on matters 
relating to their employment, on business developments and 
on financial and economic factors affecting the Group. 
This is achieved through management briefings, internal 
announcements, the Group's website and by the distribution  
of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases. 
Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts 
are also made available in the operating businesses. This 
communication programme enables employees to gain a 
better understanding of the Group's business objectives and 
their roles in achieving them. Both employment policy and 
practice in the Group are based on non-discrimination and 
equal opportunities. Ability and aptitude are the determining 
factors in the selection, training, career development and 
promotion of all employees. 
The Group remains supportive of the employment and 
advancement of disabled persons. Applications for employment 
by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind 
the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned. 
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of 
employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent 
possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee 
to continue in their current position or retrain the employee for 
duties suited to their abilities following disablement. At 30 
September 2013 the Group employed one disabled employee. 
Employment policies throughout the Group have been 
established to comply with relevant legislation and codes of 
practice relating to employment, health and safety and equal 
opportunities. The Group provides good quality working 
environments and facilities for employees and training and 
development appropriate to each of their roles.
Some of the Group's operating companies have structured 
apprenticeship schemes for technical staff and the Group 
provides sponsorship for high potential employees for higher 
education courses where appropriate. Vocational training 
is also provided and some staff are enrolled on National 
Vocational Qualification (NVQ ) level courses. Employees are 
actively encouraged to undertake Continuing Professional 
Development (CPD ).
Health & Safety
The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and 
healthy working conditions. The Group actively promotes a 
strong safety culture and ensures a collective responsibility for 
ensuring Health & Safety standards are continually improved.
The Group Chief Operating Officer, Iain Henderson, has 
overall responsibility for Health & Safety procedures across 
the Group. However, in line with the Group's decentralised 
management approach, accountability for Health & Safety 
is with local management to match local regulatory 
requirements, culture and specific business needs. The Group 
requires that each operating business conducts a Health & 
Safety review against its specific operational risk profile and 
local regulatory requirements.
2013 2012 2011
Minor injuries 54 21 16
Reportable lost time incidents
1
1 2 1
1 Three or more day's absence from workplace.
The increase in minor injuries through 2012 and 2013 reflects 
the improved systems for reporting and collecting injury data, 
particularly in relation to recently acquired businesses. The 
most common types of injury relate to minor cuts, slips/trips 
and lifting injuries.
All injuries are fully investigated and corrective actions and 
preventative measures put in place to ensure that the injury 
does not reoccur and future risks are mitigated.
Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new 
employees and where relevant, more specialist training is 
provided for specific functions. The Group has good coverage 
of employees who have formal Health & Safety training and/or 
qualifications and this will be expanded during 2014.
Human rights
The Group's activities are substantially carried out in developed 
countries that have strong legislation governing human rights. 
The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the 
countries in which it operates. 37
 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Environmental
The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses 
which essentially receive products from suppliers and 
despatch them to customers. The Group's businesses do not 
operate delivery fleets; they use third party carriers to provide 
much of their packaging requirements and to deliver their 
products to customers. The Group's ability to control the 
environmental impact of its logistics partners is therefore 
limited. The primary impact on the environment, which is 
entirely in the Group's control, is consumption of the normal 
business energy sources such as heating and power, which the 
Group aims to minimise.
The Group ensures it minimises its impact on the environment 
through compliance with relevant environmental legislation. 
The Group is committed to identifying and assessing 
environmental risks, such as packaging waste, arising from  
its operations. 
Waste management initiatives are encouraged and supported 
by the Group and materials are recycled where practical.
Local management are committed to good environmental 
management practices throughout our operations. 
The Managing Directors have responsibility for environmental 
performance of their operating businesses and each subsidiary 
is required to implement initiatives to meet their 
responsibilities. Some specific environmental initiatives are 
provided below:
 	 Each location participates in recycling paper, plastic, 
cardboard, and wood from pallets. 
 	 Hercules US has reduced the amount of plastic bags used 
for packaging of parts to be shipped by over 50% .
 	 Hercules Canada has worked with local waste 
management to recycle over 95% of all disposal items, 
virtually eliminating any landfill waste.
 	 HKX is in compliance with ISPM15 phytosanitary regulations 
for international shipping.
 	 Cabletec in the UK has modified all products to ensure they 
are now fully REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and restriction of Chemicals) compliant.
Ethics
The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with 
whom the Group has business dealings including customers, 
shareholders, employers, suppliers and advisors. 
Dealings with these groups depend upon the honesty and 
integrity of employees and the Group ensures that a high 
standard of expertise and business principles are maintained in 
all such dealings. 
Community
The Group believes that good community relations are 
important to the long term development and sustainability 
of the operating businesses. It recognises the obligation it 
has towards the parties with whom it has business dealings 
including customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees and 
advisors. In general, the interactions with these parties are 
managed at a local level by senior management and the 
Group expects a high standard of expertise and business 
principles are maintained in such dealings.
The Group's policy towards suppliers is that each operating 
business is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions 
under which they trade with their suppliers. The Group does not 
operate a formal code that it follows with regard to payments to 
suppliers. Group companies agree payment terms with their 
suppliers when they enter into binding purchasing contracts for 
the supply of goods or services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms. Group 
companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they 
are satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or 
services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group considers the environmental and social impacts of 
conducting business on the community and this forms part 
of the business decision making process. Many community 
activities and events are fully supported by the Group and 
this relationship is managed by the local management teams.
Some examples of Group community activities include:
 	 In North America:
 - Various charitable donations made locally at each 
operating company by employees for local charities 
such as United Way (over $20k donated by employees), 
Haven House (Abused Women) and Clothes for Kids.
 - Hercules US sponsorships at charity golf challenges.
 - Adopt a Needy Family at Thanksgiving and Christmas at 
Hercules US; employees donate cash, food and gifts for 
a designated family in the community.
 	 In Europe:
 - Staff from a1-CBISS took part in the  Tough Mudder' 
fund raising activity on behalf of Claire House Children's 
Hospice in November 2012.
 - IS-Rayfast supported Prospect Hospice near Swindon 
UK, in memory of a long term colleague who was sadly 
lost to cancer last year and took part in the Swindon 
Race for Life to support Cancer Research UK.
 - Cabletec supported Weston Hospice in Weston-super-
Mare UK, again in memory of a long term colleague who 
was sadly lost to cancer. Teams from IS-Cabletec and 
IS-Rayfast took part in the national  Movember' charity 
event to raise awareness of men's health issues.
The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and 
charities and in 2013 the Group made donations of  32,359 
(2012:  28,285). No political donations were made.