 Corporate governance 
The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2010   14 
 
Other than as indicated below, the Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the period with the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (the Combined 
Code). Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to Directors  remuneration is covered by the 
Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 21. 
The following relates to the Company s application during the period to 3 April 2010 of the principles and detailed 
provisions of the Combined Code. 
Board of Directors  
During the year, the Board was broadly balanced with the non-executive Chairman supported by a non-executive Vice 
Chairman, one other non-executive Director and two Executive Directors. The Director recognised as the senior 
independent Director for the purposes of the Combined Code is S J Rutherford. 
The Board of Directors met 16 times during the year. D H Norman and M G D Wakeman attended all meetings. M J 
Temple attended 13 meetings,  J A Kitchen attended six meetings up to his resignation on 25 September 2009 and S 
J Rutherford attended 12 meetings. C J Cundy attended six meetings from his appointment on 1 August 2009.  The 
Board retains full and effective control over the Group and is responsible for overall Group strategy and management, 
acquisition and divestment policies, internal control, control of major capital expenditure projects and significant 
financing matters. It also reviews annual budgets and the progress towards achievement of those budgets. A schedule 
of matters specifically reserved for the Board s decision has been agreed. 
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at 
regular intervals and at least every three years. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
Board committees  
The Board has delegated specific responsibility to two committees, each with defined terms of reference. Minutes of 
their meetings are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.  
The Audit Committee consists of all the non-executive Directors and is chaired by C J Cundy (who the Board 
considers has recent and relevant financial experience). It met three times during the year, with the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, and representatives of the external auditor in attendance. It reviewed the interim 
and final financial statements and considered the Annual Report and Accounts before submission to the Board for 
approval, the appointment of the external auditor, the scope of the audit and matters arising from the audit and internal 
control procedures. During the year all Directors attended the meetings of the committee. There is provision for the 
committee to meet with the auditor without the attendance of the Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee consists of all the non-executive Directors and is chaired by S J Rutherford.  It 
determines the terms and conditions of employment for Executive Directors and agrees the parameters of 
remuneration for the senior management. There were five meetings during the year attended by all members. The 
Remuneration Committee also functions as the Nomination Committee.  
Owing to the size of the Board, it is not considered necessary for the Board to have a separate Nomination 
Committee. 
Internal control  
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board monitors the effectiveness of the systems of internal control principally through the regular review of 
financial information and the work of the Audit Committee. 
Operational and compliance controls and risk management are part of the Group s basis of operation. 
There are no formal policies in place for employees to raise concerns to the Audit Committee but all employees are 
encouraged to address concerns to their respective manager.  Corporate governance / continued 
The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2010   15 
 
Internal control continued 
The Board has established key principles of Corporate Governance for the Group. These include: 
  an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The 
process is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the requirements of the Combined Code; and 
  a comprehensive financial reporting structure, including a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group 
businesses which culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.  
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The major elements of the system and the 
process of review are as follows: 
  an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to executive 
management; 
  a comprehensive framework for planning, budgeting and reporting the performance of the Group s operating 
units. Monthly results are reported against budget and forecasts (which are regularly revised); 
  defined policies and minimum financial controls and procedures at each operating unit;  
  prescribed procedures for capital expenditure applications; 
  confirmation by operating unit senior managers of compliance with the Group s procedures (regular internal 
control reviews are also carried out by Group finance staff); and 
  the identification and appraisal of risks during the annual process of preparing business plans and detailed 
budgets and their regular review during the year.  
Internal audit 
Head office staff perform control review visits to locations on a cyclical basis. The results of these reviews are reported 
to the Audit Committee. 
Relations with the auditor 
During the year the auditor provided tax and other non-audit advice to the Company and its subsidiaries. The Board 
has considered the effect on the independence of the auditor and concluded that their provision of non-audit services 
was the most cost-effective way of obtaining appropriate advice without a serious risk of compromising the 
independence of the auditor. The Audit Committee monitors the scope of the auditor s work.  
Relations with shareholders 
The Company carries out a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders while having regard to UK Listing 
Authority guidance on the release of price sensitive information. Full use is made of the Annual General Meeting and 
the Company s website to communicate with private investors. The results of proxy votes are declared at the Annual 
General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.  
Going concern  
The Directors are confident, after making appropriate enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
accounts. Further information on this matter is set out in the Basis of Preparation section of the Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   Corporate governance / continued 
The 600 Group PLC annual report and accounts 2010   16 
 
 
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements 
 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In 
preparing each of the Group and Parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU; 
  for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial 
statements; and 
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the parent Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
parent Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent 
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and 
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on 
the Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  
 
By order of the Board 
Alan Myers  
Secretary 
3 August 2010  
 