 Corporate Governance
Dods (Group) PLC Report & Accounts 15 months ended 31 March 2013 13
Although not required to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2010 (the Code ) issued by the Financial 
Services Authority in June 2010 the Company is committed 
to high standards of corporate governance. Whilst the Group 
does not fully comply with the Code it applies a level of 
corporate governance appropriate for a company of its size. 
This statement describes how the principles of corporate 
governance are applied.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief Operating 
Officer and Group Finance Director (combined role) and four 
Non-Executive Directors. Short biographical details of each of 
the Directors are set out on page 9. The Board is responsible 
to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group 
and meets at least five times a year to set the overall direction 
and strategy of the Group. All strategic operational and 
investment decisions are subject to Board approval. 
The roles of Chief Operating Officer and Chairman are 
separate and there is a clear division of their responsibilities. All 
Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years Sir 
William Wells and The Lord Adonis will retire at the upcoming 
Annual General Meeting (AGM ) and, being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election. 
Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
The composition of the Remuneration Committee is disclosed 
on page 9 and comprises solely Non-Executive Directors. The 
Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, meets as 
and when necessary to review and approve as appropriate 
the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of 
the Executive Directors and senior management and major 
remuneration plans for the Group as a whole. 
The Remuneration Committee approves the setting of 
objectives for the Executive Director and authorises his annual 
bonus payments for achievement of objectives. 
The Remuneration Committee approves remuneration 
packages sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive 
Directors required to run the Group successfully, but does not 
pay more than is necessary for this service. 
The Remuneration Committee is empowered to recommend 
the grant of share options under the existing share option 
plan and to make awards under the long-term incentive 
plans. The Remuneration Committee considers there to be an 
appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration 
and between short-term and long-term variable components 
of remuneration. All the decisions of the Remuneration 
Committee on remuneration matters in the 15 months ended 
31 March 2013 were reported to and endorsed by the Board. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises solely Non-Executive 
Directors. The composition of the Audit Committee is disclosed 
on page 9. By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee 
may be attended by the other Directors and the auditor. The 
Committee meets not less than twice annually. The Audit 
Committee oversees the monitoring of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group's internal controls, accounting 
policies and financial reporting and provides a forum for 
reporting by the Group's external auditor. Its duties include 
keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and 
its cost effectiveness, consideration of management' s response 
to any major audit recommendations and the independence 
and objectivity of the auditor.
Nomination Committee
The composition of the Nomination Committee is disclosed 
on page 9 and comprises all the Non-Executive Directors. It 
is responsible for nominating to the Board candidates for 
appointment as Directors, having regard to the balance and 
structure of the Board. 
The terms of reference for all committees are available on the 
Group's website.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board 
through the Chairman on all governance issues. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
 
Board performance and evaluation
In addition to the re-election of Directors every three years, 
during the 15 month period the Board did not complete an 
evaluation of its own performance. The Board will use the 
appointment of a new Chairman to complete such an exercise.
Relationships with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of effective 
communication with the Group's shareholders to ensure that 
its strategy and performance is understood and that it remains 
accountable to shareholders. The Group communicates 
with investors through Interim Statements, audited 
Annual Reports, press releases and the Company's website  
www.dodsgroupplc.com. Shareholders are welcome at the 
Group's AGM, (notice of which is provided with this Report), 
where they will have an opportunity to meet the Board.  Corporate Governance
continued
Dods (Group) PLC Report & Accounts 15 months ended 31 March 2013 14
The Group obtains feedback from its broker on the views 
of institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed 
basis and any concerns of major shareholders would be 
communicated to the Board.
Internal controls
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and 
maintaining the Group's system of internal controls and will 
continue to ensure that management keeps these processes 
under regular review and improves them where appropriate.
Management structure:
There is a clearly defined organisational structure throughout 
the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation 
of authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
Financial reporting: 
Monthly management accounts provide relevant, reliable, up-to-
date financial and non-financial information to management 
and the Board. Annual plans, forecasts and performance 
targets allow management to monitor the key business 
and financial activities and the progress towards achieving 
the financial objectives. The annual budget is approved by  
the Board.
Monitoring of controls: 
It is intended that the Audit Committee receives regular 
reports from the auditor and assures itself that the internal 
control environment of the Group is operating effectively. 
There are formal policies and procedures in place to ensure 
the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and to 
safeguard the Group's assets. Significant capital projects and 
acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
Going concern: 
The Directors have reviewed the forecasts for the years ending 
31 March 2013 which have been adjusted to take account 
of the current trading environment. The Directors consider 
the forecasts to be prudent and have assessed the impact  
of them on the Group's cash flow, facilities and headroom 
within its banking covenants. Further, the Directors have 
assessed the future funding requirements of the Group 
and compared them with the level of available borrowing  
facilities. Based on this work, the Directors are satisfied that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. 
Corporate social responsibility
The Board recognises the growing awareness of social,  
environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to 
take into account the interests of the Group's stakeholders,  
including its investors, employees, suppliers and business 
partners when operating the business.
Employment
At a subsidiary level each individual company has established 
policies which address key corporate objectives in the 
management of employee relations, communication and 
employee involvement, training and personal development 
and equal opportunity. The Board recognises its legal 
responsibility to ensure the wellbeing, safety and welfare of 
its employees and to maintain a safe and healthy working 
environment for them and for its visitors. Health and Safety 
is on the agenda for regularly scheduled plc Board and 
Operations Board meetings.
Environment
By their nature the Group's regular operations are judged to 
have a low environmental impact and are not expected to 
give rise to any significant inherent environmental risks over 
the next 12 months.
By Order of the Board
Keith Sadler
25 July 2013
 Board Remuneration Audit Nomination
Total meetings held 14 2 2 -
Kevin Hand 14 2 2 -
Keith Sadler (appointed)  12 - - -
Lord Adonis 14 2 2 -
Henrietta Marsh 12 2 2 -
Sir William Wells 14 - - -
Richard Flaye 7 - - -
Andy Wilson 14 2 2 -
Gerry Murray 5 - - -
Rupert Levy 2 - - -
Attendance at Board and  
Committee meetings
The Directors attended the following 
Board and Committee meetings during 
the 15 months ended 31 March 2013. Directors' Responsibilities Statement 
Dods (Group) PLC Report & Accounts 15 months ended 31 March 2013 15
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors' 
Report and the financial statements in accordance with  
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial  
statements for each financial year. Under that law the  
Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial  
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice. Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs and profit or loss of the Company and Group for that 
period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
  make judgements and accounting estimates that are  
reasonable and prudent;
  state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards/IFRSs 
have been followed, subject to any material departures  
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate  
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain  
the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company' s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Keith Sadler
25 July 2013