 Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 13
Corporate Governance
Although	 not	 required	 to	 comply	 with	 the	 Combined	 Code	
(the	 Code )	 issued	 by	 the	 Financial	 Services	 Authority	 in	
June	 2008	 the	 Company	 is	 committed	 to	 high	 standards	
of	corporate	governance.	Whilst	the	Group	does	not	
fully	 comply	 with	 the	 Code	 it	 applies	 a	 level	 of	 corporate	
governance	 appropriate	 for	 a	 company	 of	 its	 size.	 This	
statement	describes	how	the	principles	of	corporate	
governance	 are	 applied.
The Board
The	 Board	 currently	 comprises	 the	 Chairman,	 Chief	 Operating	
Officer	 and	 Group	 Finance	 Director	 and	 five	 Non-Executive	
Directors.	 Short	 biographical	 details	 of	 each	 of	 the	 Directors	
are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 9.	 The	 Board	 is	 responsible	 to	 the	
shareholders	 for	 the	 proper	 management	 of	 the	 Group	 and	
meets	 at	 least	 five	 times	 a	 year	 to	 set	 the	 overall	 direction	
and	 strategy	 of	 the	 Group.	 All	 strategic	 operational	 and	
investment	 decisions	 are	 subject	 to	 Board	 approval.	
The	 roles	 of	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 and	 Chairman	 are	
separate	 and	 there	 is	 a	 clear	 division	 of	 their	 responsibilities.	
All	 Directors	 are	 subject	 to	 re-election	 at	 least	 every	 three	
years.	 Andy	 Wilson	 will	 retire	 at	 the	 upcoming	 Annual	 General	
Meeting	 (AGM )	 and,	 being	 eligible,	 offer	 himself	 for	 re-
election.	 As	 this	 is	 the	 first	 AGM	 since	 their	 appointment	
by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors,	 Henrietta	 Marsh	 and	 Keith	 Sadler	
stand	 for	 election.	
Board committees
Remuneration Committee
The	 composition	 of	 the	 Remuneration	 Committee	 is	 disclosed	
on	 page	 9	 and	 comprises	 solely	 Non-Executive	 Directors.	 The	
Remuneration	 Committee,	 on	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board,	 meets	 as	
and	 when	 necessary	 to	 review	 and	 approve	 as	 appropriate	
the	 contract	 terms,	 remuneration	 and	 other	 benefits	 of	
the	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 senior	 management	 and	 major	
remuneration	 plans	 for	 the	 Group	 as	 a	 whole.	
The	Remuneration	Committee	approves	the	setting	of	
objectives	 for	 all	 of	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 authorises	
their	 annual	 bonus	 payments	 for	 achievement	 of	 objectives.	
The	Remuneration	Committee	approves	remuneration	
packages	 sufficient	 to	 attract,	 retain	 and	 motivate	 Executive	
Directors	 required	 to	 run	 the	 Group	 successfully,	 but	 does	 not	
pay	 more	 than	 is	 necessary	 for	 this	 service.	
The	 Remuneration	 Committee	 is	 empowered	 to	 recommend	
the	 grant	 of	 share	 options	 under	 the	 existing	 share	 option	
plan	 and	 to	 make	 awards	 under	 the	 long-term	 incentive	
plans.	 The	 Remuneration	 Committee	 considers	 there	 to	
be	 an	 appropriate	 balance	 between	 fixed	 and	 variable	
remuneration	and	between	short-term	and	long-term	
variable	 components	 of	 remuneration.	 All	 the	 decisions	 of	
the	 Remuneration	 Committee	 on	 remuneration	 matters	 in	
the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 were	 reported	 to	 and	
endorsed	 by	 the	 Board.	
Audit Committee
The	Audit	Committee	comprises	solely	Non-Executive	
Directors.	 By	 invitation,	 the	 meetings	 of	 the	 Audit	 Committee	
may	 be	 attended	 by	 the	 other	 Directors	 and	 the	 auditor.	 The	
Committee	 meets	 not	 less	 than	 twice	 annually.	 The	 Audit	
Committee	 oversees	 the	 monitoring	 of	 the	 adequacy	 and	
effectiveness	 of	 the	 Group's	 internal	 controls,	 accounting	
policies	 and	 financial	 reporting	 and	 provides	 a	 forum	 for	
reporting	 by	 the	 Group's	 external	 auditor.	 Its	 duties	 include	
keeping	 under	 review	 the	 scope	 and	 results	 of	 the	 audit	 and	
its	cost	effectiveness,	consideration	of	management's	
response	 to	 any	 major	 audit	 recommendations	 and	 the	
independence	 and	 objectivity	 of	 the	 auditor.
Nomination Committee
The	 composition	 of	 the	 Nomination	 Committee	 is	 disclosed	 on	
page	 9	 and	 comprises	 a	 majority	 of	 Non-Executive	 Directors.	
It	 is	 responsible	 for	 nominating	 to	 the	 Board	 candidates	 for	
appointment	 as	 Directors,	 having	 regard	 to	 the	 balance	 and	
structure	 of	 the	 Board.	
The	 terms	 of	 reference	 for	 all	 committees	 are	 available	 on	 the	
Group's	 website.
Company Secretary
The	 Company	 Secretary	 is	 responsible	 for	 advising	 the	 Board	
through	 the	 Chairman	 on	 all	 governance	 issues.	 All	 Directors	
have	 access	 to	 the	 advice	 and	 services	 of	 the	 Secretary.
Relationships with shareholders
The	 Board	 recognises	 the	 importance	 of	 effective	
communication	 with	 the	 Group's	 shareholders	 to	 ensure	 that	
its	 strategy	 and	 performance	 is	 understood	 and	 that	 it	 remains	
accountable	 to	 shareholders.	 The	 Group	 communicates	 with	
investors	through	Interim	Statements,	audited	Annual	
Reports,	press	releases	and	the	Company's	website	 	
www.dodsgroupplc.com.	 Shareholders	 are	 welcome	 at	 the	
Group's	 AGM,	 (notice	 of	 which	 is	 provided	 with	 this	 Report),	
where	 they	 will	 have	 an	 opportunity	 to	 meet	 the	 Board.	 The	
Group	 obtains	 feedback	 from	 its	 broker	 on	 the	 views	 of	
institutional	 investors	 on	 a	 non-attributed	 and	 attributed	 basis	
and	any	concerns	of	major	shareholders	would	be	
communicated	 to	 the	 Board. Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 14
Corporate Governance
continued
Board performance and evaluation
In	 addition	 to	 the	 re-election	 of	 Directors	 every	 three	 years,	
the	 Board	 has	 a	 process	 for	 evaluation	 of	 its	 own	 performance,	
that	 of	 its	 committees	 and	 individual	 Directors,	 including	 	
the	 Chairman.
Internal controls
The	 Board	 acknowledges	 its	 responsibility	 for	 establishing	 and	
maintaining	 the	 Group's	 system	 of	 internal	 controls	 and	 will	
continue	 to	 ensure	 that	 management	 keeps	 these	 processes	
under	 regular	 review	 and	 improves	 them	 where	 appropriate.
Management structure:
There	 is	 a	 clearly	 defined	 organisational	 structure	 throughout	
the	 Group	 with	 established	 lines	 of	 reporting	 and	 delegation	
of	 authority	 based	 on	 job	 responsibilities	 and	 experience.
Financial reporting: 
Monthly	 management	 accounts	 provide	 relevant,	 reliable,	
up-to-date	financial	and	non-financial	information	to	
management	 and	 the	 Board.	 Annual	 plans,	 forecasts	 and	
performance	 targets	 allow	 management	 to	 monitor	 the	 key	
business	 and	 financial	 activities	 and	 the	 progress	 towards	
achieving	 the	 financial	 objectives.	 The	 annual	 budget	 is	
approved	 by	 the	 Board.
Monitoring of controls: 
The	 Audit	 Committee	 receives	 regular	 reports	 from	 the	 auditor	
and	 assures	 itself	 that	 the	 internal	 control	 environment	 of	 the	
Group	 is	 operating	 effectively.	 There	 are	 formal	 policies	 and	
procedures	 in	 place	 to	 ensure	 the	 integrity	 and	 accuracy	 of	
the	 accounting	 records	 and	 to	 safeguard	 the	 Group's	 assets.	
Significant	 capital	 projects	 and	 acquisitions	 and	 disposals	
require	 Board	 approval.
Going concern: 
The	 Directors	 have	 reviewed	 the	 forecasts	 for	 the	 period	 ending	
31	 March	 2013	 together	 with	 a	 three	 year	 plan	 for	 the	 future	
growth	 strategy	 for	 the	 Group,	 which	 have	 been	 adjusted	 to	
take	account	of	the	current	trading	environment.	The	
Directors	 consider	 the	 forecasts	 to	 be	 prudent	 and	 have	
assessed	 the	 impact	 of	 them	 on	 the	 Group's	 cash	 flow,	 facilities	
and	 headroom	 within	 its	 banking	 covenants.	 Further,	 the	
Directors	 have	 assessed	 the	 future	 funding	 requirements	 of	
the	 Group	 and	 compared	 them	 with	 the	 level	 of	 available	
borrowing	 facilities.	 Based	 on	 this	 work,	 the	 Directors	 are	
satisfied	 that	 the	 Group	 has	 adequate	 resources	 to	 continue	
in	 operational	 existence	 for	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	 For	 this	
reason	 they	 continue	 to	 adopt	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 in	
preparing	 the	 financial	 statements.
Corporate social responsibility
The	 Board	 recognises	 the	 growing	 awareness	 of	 social,	
environmental	 and	 ethical	 matters	 and	 it	 endeavours	 to	
take	 into	 account	 the	 interests	 of	 the	 Group's	 stakeholders,	
including	 its	 investors,	 employees,	 suppliers	 and	 business	
partners	 when	 operating	 the	 business.
Employment
At	 a	 subsidiary	 level	 each	 individual	 company	 has	 established	
policies	which	address	key	corporate	objectives	in	the	
management	 of	 employee	 relations,	 communication	 and	
employee	 involvement,	 training	 and	 personal	 development	 and	
equal	 opportunity.	 The	 Board	 recognises	 its	 legal	 responsibility	
to	 ensure	 the	 wellbeing,	 safety	 and	 welfare	 of	 its	 employees	
and	 to	 maintain	 a	 safe	 and	 healthy	 working	 environment	 for	
them	 and	 for	 its	 visitors.	 Health	 and	 Safety	 is	 on	 the	 agenda	 for	
regularly	 scheduled	 plc	 Board	 and	 Operations	 Board	 meetings.
Environment
By	 their	 nature	 the	 Group's	 regular	 operations	 are	 judged	 to	
have	 a	 low	 environmental	 impact	 and	 are	 not	 expected	 to	
give	 rise	 to	 any	 significant	 inherent	 environmental	 risks	 over	
the	 next	 12	 months.
By	 Order	 of	 the	 Board
Keith Sadler
25	 May	 2012
Attendance at Board and  
Committee meetings
The	 Directors	 attended	 the	 following	
Board	 and	 Committee	 meetings	 during	
the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011.
In	 addition	 the	 Board	 met	 four	 times	 for	
the	 purpose	 of	 allotting	 shares	 under	
the	 Group's	 share	 option	 scheme.
	 Board	 Remuneration	 Audit
Total	 meetings	 held	 13	 1	 1
Gerry	 Murray	 12	 -	 -
Rupert	 Levy	
1
	 13	 -	 -
Kevin	 Hand	 13	 1	 1	
Lord	 Adonis	 11	 1	 -
Sir	 William	 Wells	 11	 -	 -
Richard	 Flaye	 12	 1	 1
Andy	 Wilson	 13	 -	 1
1.			 Resigned	 19	 April	 2012.