 60  Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
 
Membership and process 
The Committee comprises David Lindsell (as Chairman), Tim Barker and Jamie Dundas all of whom are independent  
non-executive directors. Mike Grasby was a member of the Committee until 28 April 2009 at which point he stood down. 
Jamie Dundas was Chairman of the Committee until 28 April 2009 at which point he stood down (as Chairman) and was 
replaced by David Lindsell. 
The biographical notes of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 46 and 47. The Board is satisfied that the 
membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience. The Company Secretary 
acts as Secretary to the Committee.  
The Committee met on four occasions in 2009, and the members' attendance record is set out on page 57. The Chairman  
of the Committee reports the Committee's deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting of 
the Committee are circulated to all members of the Board. 
Role 
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities. Its primary functions are to: 
  monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders; 
  review significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements; 
  review the systems of internal control and risk management; 
  maintain an appropriate relationship with the Group's external auditors and review the effectiveness and objectivity  
of the external audit process; and 
  monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function (which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP,  
a leading firm of accountants), review the internal audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and monitor 
management's responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal audit function. 
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board. A copy of the 
terms of reference is available on the Group's website at www.draxgroup.plc.uk. 
Attendance at meetings 
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Financial Controller and the internal and external 
auditors are normally invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend meetings of the Committee. In undertaking its 
duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Finance Director and the Company Secretary and their resources, as 
well as access to external professional advice. 
Programme of work 
During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an agreed annual work plan of which the main 
features were: 
  at meetings in February and July 2009, the Committee reviewed the Group's Preliminary results announcement and 
Annual report and accounts, and the Half year results announcement and Half year report respectively. On each occasion, 
the Committee received reports from management and the external auditors identifying accounting or judgemental issues 
requiring its attention and also satisfied itself of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors; 
  at each meeting, the Committee received reports from the internal audit function on the progress of their programme for 
the year, reviewed new internal audit reports and monitored progress with the implementation of internal control 
recommendations. The Committee reviewed the arrangements for the provision of the internal audit function and the 
performance of the current provider, Grant Thornton UK LLP. The Committee considered that outsourcing the internal 
audit function through Grant Thornton UK LLP continues to be effective and appropriate. In establishing the internal audit 
plan for 2010, the Committee has extended its remit to specifically identified strategic risk areas, as well as ensuring the 
provision of a core compliance assurance service; 
  in April 2009, the Committee undertook a detailed review of the management letter covering the external auditors' 
findings in respect of the prior financial year and also reviewed the performance of the external auditors;  
  at meetings in April and November 2009, the Committee reviewed the Company's risk register and in November 2009 it 
undertook a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls;  
  in November 2009, the Committee received a specific report that it had commissioned from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC ) on the effectiveness of controls applicable to Drax Power Limited's commodity trading activities. The report 
concluded that there were no significant weaknesses in the controls. PwC are to conduct a further phase of their review 
during 2010; and  Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009  61 
 
 
  during the year, the Committee met four times in the absence of management with the external auditors and three times 
with the internal auditors. No matters of concern were drawn to the Committee's attention at any of these meetings. 
The Committee's understanding with both the external and internal auditors is that, if they should at any time become 
aware of any matters occasioning them material concern, they will immediately draw it to the Committee's attention via 
the Chairman. Nothing was subject to this procedure in the course of the year. 
The nature of the Group's activities, and the markets in which it operates, are such that from time to time there is a need to 
consider carefully certain complex accounting issues and make subjective judgements. During the year, the Committee 
reviewed the Group's accounting for unrealised gains and losses under derivative contracts, and the methodology through 
which we determine appropriate actuarial assumptions for our defined benefit pension scheme. The Committee also 
considered the subjective judgements which are made in connection with the Group's tax accounting and the remaining 
useful economic life of the Drax Power Station. 
On each occasion, the Committee concluded that the relevant accounting standards were being properly applied, and that 
the judgements taken were reasonable and appropriate to the circumstances. 
Independence of the audit 
In July 2008, the Committee considered and adopted an enhanced Auditor Independence Policy. In accordance with the 
Policy, the Committee annually reviews the quality and cost effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.  
The provisions of the Policy include: 
  seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their professional judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from 
them an account of all relationships which may affect the firm's independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and 
staff; 
  a policy on the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditors, the essence of which is to require 
a period of two years to elapse between the cessation of an individual's association with the auditors and appointment to 
any financial reporting oversight role within the Group; and 
  a policy governing the engagement of the auditors to conduct non-audit work under which: 
  the auditors may not be engaged to provide certain categories of work, including those where they may be required to 
audit their own work or make management decisions, or where the auditors would act in an advocacy role for the 
Company; 
  there is a clear process of approval for engaging the auditors to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to 
financial limits; 
  all engagements of the auditors to conduct non-audit work are reported to the next meeting of the Committee; and 
  the balance between the fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the Notes to 
the consolidated financial statements on page 88. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the 
current audit partner has been in place for one year. 
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group's choice of external auditor.  62  Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
Internal audit 
Under an outsourcing arrangement, Grant Thornton UK LLP undertakes the Group's internal audit function. Regular  
reports are provided to the Audit Committee regarding the audit programme and reviews undertaken. Recommendations 
are made to management for process improvements as appropriate. Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed  
by the Committee during 2009 included: information technology; financial reporting; budgeting; revenue; procurement;  
VAT and expenditure; human resources and payroll; large capital projects; risk register; and treasury. The Committee is of  
the opinion that, because of the nature of the Group's business, a higher quality of service is available through outsourcing 
the function than would be possible through the employment of internal audit staff. 
External auditors 
Deloitte LLP were appointed auditors of the Company in 2005 and have been reappointed at each subsequent Annual 
General Meeting. They previously acted as auditors to the Drax group of companies prior to the listing of the Company in 
December 2005. Any decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee 
based on the results of the performance review described below. 
Having reviewed their performance during the year and satisfied itself of their continuing independence and objectivity 
within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards, the Committee has invited the Board  
to recommend the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors at the forthcoming AGM and a resolution to that effect appears 
in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting. 
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal 
and external auditors. 
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 22 February 2010. 
David Lindsell 
Chairman,  
Audit Committee 
 
 