 62
Drax Group plc
Annual report and 
accounts 2011
Audit Committee report
Membership and process 
The Audit Committee (the Committee ) consisted of David Lindsell (as Chairman), Tim Barker (Senior Independent Director), 
Tim Cobbold, and Tony Thorne all of whom are independent non-executive directors.  
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial 
experience. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee met on four occasions in 2011, and the members' attendance record is set out on page 56. The Chairman of 
the Committee reports the Committee's deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting of the 
Committee are circulated to all members of the Board. 
Role 
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities. Its primary functions are to: 
  monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders; 
  review significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements; 
  review the systems of internal control and risk management; 
  maintain an appropriate relationship with the Group's external auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the 
external audit process; and  
  monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function (which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP), review 
the internal audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and monitor management's responses to the findings and 
recommendations of the internal audit function. 
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board. The terms of 
reference are available on the Group's website at www.draxgroup.plc.uk. 
Attendance at meetings 
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the internal and 
external auditor are normally invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend meetings of the Committee. In undertaking 
its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Finance Director and the Company Secretary and their resources, 
as well as access to external professional advice. 
During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an agreed annual work plan of which the main 
features were: 
  at meetings in February and July 2011, the Committee reviewed the Group's Preliminary results announcement and Annual 
report and accounts, and the Half year results announcement and Half year report respectively. On each occasion, the 
Committee received reports from management and the external auditor identifying accounting or judgemental issues 
requiring its attention and also satisfied itself of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor;  
  at each meeting the Committee received reports from the internal audit function on the progress of their programme 
for the year, reviewed new internal audit reports and monitored progress with the implementation of internal control 
recommendations. The Committee continues to focus on specifically identified strategic risk areas, as well as ensuring 
the provision of a core compliance assurance service. No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit 
reports although certain improvements in processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews;  
  in July 2011, the Committee reviewed the arrangements for the provision of the internal audit function and the 
performance of the current provider, Grant Thornton UK LLP. The Committee considered that outsourcing the internal 
audit function through Grant Thornton UK LLP continues to be effective and appropriate; 
 The steps Drax has taken in 2011 in revising and refining its 
risk and governance framework should provide stakeholders 
with greater comfort that it is a well-run business. 
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Audit Committee Governance
63
Drax Group plc
Annual report and 
accounts 2011
Business review Financials
  in April 2011, the Committee undertook a detailed review of the management letter covering the external auditor's findings 
in respect of the prior financial year and also reviewed the performance of the external auditor; 
  at meetings in April and November 2011, the Committee reviewed the Company's risk register and in February and 
November 2011, it undertook a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and consideration of fraud;  
  during 2011, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC ) conducted a further phase on the effectiveness of controls applicable 
to Drax Power Limited's commodity trading activities. In July 2011, the results of this further phase were presented to the 
Committee. The report did not identify any significant weaknesses in the controls;  
  during the year, the Committee met three times in the absence of management with each of the external and internal 
auditor. No matters of concern were drawn to the Committee's attention at any of these meetings. The Committee's 
understanding with both the external and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become aware of any matters 
occasioning them material concern, they will immediately draw it to the Committee's attention via the Chairman of the 
Committee. Nothing was subject to this procedure in the course of the year; and  
  strategic reviews of tax (July 2011), treasury and the finance team (both November 2011), were undertaken and presented 
to the Committee and in addition, policy reviews covering auditor independence and whistleblowing were put to, and 
approved by, the Committee in April 2011. 
The nature of the Group's activities, and the markets in which it operates, are such that from time to time there is a need to 
consider carefully certain complex accounting issues and make subjective judgements.  
Independence of the external audit 
In April 2011, the Committee considered and adopted an enhanced Auditor Independence Policy. In accordance with the Policy, 
the Committee annually reviews the quality and cost effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor. 
The provisions of the Policy include: 
  seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in their professional judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from 
them an account of all relationships which may affect the firm's independence and the objectivity of the audit partner 
and staff;  
  a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct non-audit work under which: 
  the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of work, including those where they may be required to 
audit their own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy role for the Group;  
  there is a clear process of approval for engaging the auditor to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to 
financial limits;  
  all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work are reported to the next meeting of the Committee;  
  the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee; 
and  
  a policy on the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditor, the essence of which is to require 
a period of two years to elapse between the cessation of an individual's association with the auditor and appointment to 
any financial reporting oversight role within the Group. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 93. The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible 
for the Group audit every five years and the current audit partner, Carl Hughes, has been in place for three years. 
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group's choice of external auditor.  64
Drax Group plc
Annual report and 
accounts 2011
Audit Committee report
Internal audit 
Under an outsourcing arrangement, Grant Thornton UK LLP undertakes the Group's internal audit function. Regular reports 
are provided to the Audit Committee regarding the audit programme and reviews undertaken. Recommendations are made to 
management for process improvements as appropriate. Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee 
during 2011 included: Senior Accounting Officer compliance; Human Resources strategy; Bribery Act compliance; payroll, Drax 
cyclical key financial controls; Haven key financial controls; Drax IT key controls and strategy; Haven IT key controls and 
strategy; and group wide risk management.  
External auditor 
Deloitte LLP was appointed auditor of the Group in 2005 and have been reappointed at each subsequent Annual General 
Meeting. They previously acted as auditor to the Drax group of companies prior to the listing of the Company in December 
2005. Any decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee based on the 
results of the performance review described below. 
Having reviewed their performance during the year and satisfied itself of their continuing independence and objectivity within 
the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards, the Committee has invited the Board to 
recommend the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor at the forthcoming AGM and a resolution to that effect appears 
in the notice of the AGM. 
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal 
and external auditor. 
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 20 February 2012. 
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 