 59
Drax Group plc
Annual report and 
accounts 2012
Marketplace, performance and risk Corporate and social responsibility Financials Governance Overview
Audit Committee report 
 
Membership and process 
Throughout 2012, the Audit Committee (the Committee ) consisted of David Lindsell (as Chairman), Tim Barker (Senior 
Independent Director), Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne all of whom are independent non-executive directors.  
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial 
experience. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee met on four occasions in 2012 and the members' attendance record is set out on page 53. The Chairman of 
the Committee reports the Committee's deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting of the 
Committee are circulated to all members of the Board. 
Role 
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities. Its primary functions are to: 
- monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders; 
- review significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements; 
- review the systems of internal control and risk management; 
- maintain an appropriate relationship with the Group's external auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the 
external audit process; and  
- monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function (which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP), review 
the internal audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and monitor management's responses to the findings and 
recommendations of the internal audit function. 
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board. The terms of 
reference are available on the Group's website at www.draxgroup.plc.uk. 
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the internal and 
external auditor are normally invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend meetings of the Committee. In undertaking 
its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Finance Director and the Company Secretary and their resources, 
as well as access to external professional advice. 
During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an agreed annual work plan of which the main 
features were: 
- at meetings in February and July 2012, the Committee reviewed the Group's Preliminary results announcement and 
Annual report and accounts, and the Half year results announcement and Half year report respectively. On each occasion, 
the Committee received reports from management and the external auditor on the application of accounting policies on 
significant estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements, and on the methods used to account 
for any significant or unusual transactions. The summary of the key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
and our principal accounting policies, all of which have been considered by the Committee, are set out in Note 3 to the 
accounts. In respect of all such matters, the external auditor concurred with the judgements made by management and the 
Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies were applied appropriately and the estimates and judgements made 
were appropriate. In addition, the Committee also satisfied itself of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor 
on the basis set out below under the Independence of the external audit section of the report;  
- at each meeting the Committee received reports from the internal audit function on the progress of their programme 
for the year, reviewed new internal audit reports and monitored progress with the implementation of internal control 
recommendations. The Committee continues to focus on specifically identified strategic risk areas, as well as ensuring 
During 2012, the Committee continued to focus on specifically 
identified strategic risk areas, whilst ensuring the provision 
of a core compliance assurance service offers comfort 
to stakeholders that effective controls are in place. 
David Lindsell
Chairman of the Audit Committee 60
Drax Group plc
Annual report and 
accounts 2012
Audit Committee report 
the provision of a core compliance assurance service. No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit 
reports although certain improvements in processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews;  
- in November 2012, the Committee reviewed the structure and resources of the finance team and treasury function 
processes and controls; 
- the Committee reviews the operation of the Company's risk management system, encompassing operational as well as 
financial controls. At meetings in April and November 2012, the Committee reviewed the Company's risk register and in 
February and November 2012, it undertook a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls. The Committee 
was satisfied that appropriate frameworks and controls were well embedded into the business and that the system of 
internal controls was effective; 
- in April 2012, the Committee undertook a detailed review of the management letter covering the external auditor's findings 
in respect of the prior financial year and also reviewed the performance of the external auditor at the February 2012 
meeting; 
- during 2012, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC ) conducted a further phase on the review of effectiveness of controls 
applicable to Drax Power Limited's commodity trading activities. In November 2012, the results of this further phase were 
presented to the Committee. The report did not identify any significant weaknesses in the controls in place although certain 
improvements in processes and procedures are to be implemented as a result of the reviews;  
- during the year, the Committee met twice in the absence of management with each of the external and internal auditor. 
No matters of concern were drawn to the Committee's attention at any of these meetings. The Committee's understanding 
with both the external and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become aware of any matters occasioning 
them material concern, they will immediately draw it to the Committee's attention via the Chairman of the Committee. 
Nothing was subject to this procedure in the course of the year; and  
- the Committee has reviewed the content of the Annual report and accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, taken 
as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group's performance, business model and strategy. 
Independence of the external audit 
The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy, in accordance with which, the Committee annually reviews the quality 
and cost effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. The Auditor 
Independence Policy can be found on the Company's website at www.draxgroup.plc.uk 
The provisions of the Policy include: 
- seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from it an 
account of all relationships which may affect the firm's independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and staff;  
- a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct non-audit work under which: 
- the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of work, including those where they may be required to 
audit their own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy role for the Group;  
- there is a clear process of approval for engaging the auditor to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to 
financial limits;  
- all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work are reported to the next meeting of the Committee;  
- the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee; 
and  
- a policy on the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditor, the essence of which is to require 
a period of two years to elapse between the cessation of an individual's association with the auditor and appointment to 
any financial reporting oversight role within the Group. 
The Committee receives reports from the external auditor on its own processes and procedures to ensure its independence 
and objectivity and to ensure compliance with the relevant standards. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in Note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 97. The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for 
the Group audit every five years and the current audit partner, Carl Hughes, has been in place for four years. 
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group's choice of external auditor.  61
Drax Group plc
Annual report and 
accounts 2012
Marketplace, performance and risk Corporate and social responsibility Financials Governance Overview
Internal audit 
Grant Thornton UK LLP undertakes the Group's internal audit function. The Committee periodically reviews whether the 
internal audit function is likely to be more effective or efficient if provided internally. In view of the nature and scope of the 
Group's business and its management structure, the Committee considers that it continues to be more effective and efficient 
for core internal audit functions to be undertaken by an external service provider, augmented as appropriate by additional 
reviews that require specialist expertise. 
The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding the internal audit programme and reviews undertaken. 
Recommendations are made to management for process improvements as appropriate. Topics dealt with by internal audit 
reports reviewed by the Committee during 2012 included: Group payroll and PAYE; Drax Power Limited key financial controls 
on revenue and financial reporting and on treasury and expenditure; VAT and international trade; ROC accreditation; fuel - 
covering coal and biomass procurement and logistics; IT key controls and strategy; Know Your Customer and Bribery Act 
Compliance; Haven Power Limited key financial controls and physical security. 
External auditor 
Deloitte LLP was appointed auditor of the Group in 2005 and has been reappointed at each subsequent Annual General 
Meeting. It previously acted as auditor to the Drax group of companies prior to the listing of the Company in December 2005. 
Any decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee based on the 
results of the performance review described below. 
Having reviewed its performance during the year and satisfied itself of its continuing independence and objectivity within 
the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards, the Committee has invited the Board to 
recommend the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor at the forthcoming AGM and a resolution to that effect appears 
in the notice of the AGM. 
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal 
and external auditor. 
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 18 February 2013. 
 
David Lindsell 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
 