 18 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2005
The Board is responsible to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and fully support the spirit behind Section 1 of
the Combined Code, and has considered the revisions made to the code by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
In the opinion of the directors, the Group has complied throughout the period with the exception of the following items which relate to
the entire period under review (references in brackets are to paragraphs in the Combined Code):
a) The Audit Committee does not consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors as envisaged by the Code as A G Mack is
a member of the Committee (C3.1).
b) The non-executive directors have rolling three-month contracts rather than contracts for a fixed term as envisaged by the Code (A7.2).
c) The Remuneration Committee which met four times during the year does not consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors
as envisaged by the Code as A G Mack is a member of the Committee (B2.1).
d) Although the Company has clear procedures and controls in place there is no formal framework laid down for the manner in which
the Board reviews the effectiveness of these internal controls. No formal review is carried out on an annual basis, although the
Board keeps such controls under ongoing review. This covers all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls in
addition to risk management (C2.1).
e) No formal Nomination Committee has been set up by the Board; all matters regarding the appointment of non-executive directors
are made by the Board as a whole. Independent consultants are used to source potential candidates. In view of the size of the
Company the Board considers it appropriate to undertake this function as a whole (A4.6).
f) Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the individual directors is ongoing on a month to month basis and is not
formally recorded or minuted (A6.1).
g) The Audit Committee does not have formal written terms of reference (C3.2), which are therefore not available (C3.3) nor are there
formal arrangements in place whereby staff may raise concerns in confidence (C4.4). These are currently under review.
The current business structure and operating style of Air Partner PLC has led to this non-compliance being witnessed in the period.
Where a clear benefit to the Group can be quantified, specific exceptions will be revisited.
The Board and its committees
The Board is comprised of A G Mack, who owns 18.23% of the issued share capital of Air Partner PLC and carries out the role
of Chairman, D C W Savile who performs the role of Chief Executive Officer, S J White who is Group Finance Director, and the
independent non-executive directors; S Srikanthan, the senior non-executive director and R Everitt whose biographies appear on page 7.
These appointments represent a range of experience and calibre that brings independent judgement on all issues that are vital to the
continued success of the Group. All directors are subject to re-election at the first opportunity after appointment and are required to
submit themselves for re-election at least every three years thereafter. The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper
management of the Group. The job description of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined and well
documented giving clarity to their division of responsibilities. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial
statements is set out on page 19.
The directors have access to the Company Secretary, S J White, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal
is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible for ensuring that directors receive appropriate training on appointment as necessary
and, if requested to do so by individual directors, facilitates the provision of independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year, with a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision. These include
strategy plans, the approval of financial statements, major non-recurring projects, business risk assessment and new initiatives. The Board
receives appropriate and timely information in order to enable it to properly discharge its duties. The day to day running of the
Company is delegated to D C W Savile, S J White and the Senior Management team.
The Group has constituted a Remuneration Committee under the Chairmanship of S Srikanthan to provide recommendations to 
the Board on the framework for executive director remuneration. The other members of the committee are R Everitt and A G Mack.
The Remuneration Committee's Report is given in full on pages 15 to 17.
An Audit Committee has been constituted with S Srikanthan as Chairman. Other members include R Everitt and A G Mack, who
represents the shareholders by virtue of his 18.23% shareholding. The Audit Committee meets with the external auditors bi-annually
to review historic numbers and any future changes that will affect the business going forward.
Baker Tilly are the current principal auditors and liaise with the Audit Committee regarding the current details of work undertaken for the
Group. A distinction is made between audit and non audit business so as to ensure the auditor retain objectively and independence.
Corporate governance 19 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2005
Due to the history of the Company and particularly the continuing involvement of its founder family member who established a prudent
and supportive ethos within the Company, the Board will continue to include and to benefit from the involvement of Mr Mack. The
inclusion of Mr Mack in both the Remuneration and Audit Committees is not in compliance with the Code.
Meetings attended Board Remuneration Audit
A G Mack 10/10 4/4 2/2
D C W Savile 10/10 N/A N/A
S J White 10/10 N/A N/A
S Srikanthan 9/10 4/4 2/2
R J F Cobbold (Resigned 31 December 2004) 3/3 2/2 1/1
R Everitt (Appointed 1 January 2005) 5/6 2/2 1/1
Communication with Shareholders
The Board has developed a comprehensive programme to ensure that effective communication by both executive and non-executive
directors with shareholders, analysts and the financial press is maintained throughout the year. This is achieved through its annual and
interim reports, results and other announcements, as well as through presentations to institutional shareholders and the dissemination of
information via the Group's website at www.airpartner.com. The Board seeks to present its strategy and performance in an objective
and balanced manner.
The Chief Executive's review on pages 4 to 6 includes a detailed review of the Group's business and future developments.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with both private and institutional investors and welcomes their
participation. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions
that might arise.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting can be found within the Notice of Meeting on pages 36 to 38.
In accordance with the Combined Code the votes cast by proxy will again be declared at the meeting after the votes have been cast.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements,
the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the financial statements; 
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue
in business.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Directors' report and other information included in the annual report is prepared
in accordance with Company law in the United Kingdom. They are also responsible for ensuring that the annual report includes
information required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The maintenance and integrity of the web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
information contained in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included
in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group
and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 20 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2005
Internal control
The full Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. In establishing this system,
the directors have considered the nature of the Group's business, with regard to the risks to which that particular business is exposed,
the likelihood of such risks occurring and the costs of protecting against them.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance. Currently the Board feels that a formal internal audit function is not required given
the other controls in place. The key procedures currently in place are as follows:
 detailed and comprehensive budgeting systems, with a full operating forecast for twelve months and a longer term, five year
financial plan, both formally approved by the Board;
 business performance is circulated on a daily basis for sales bookings, with full results being produced monthly;
 quarterly divisional reports are also formally submitted for the Board to review; 
 clearly defined authority limits and controls are in place over contract signing limits, purchasing commitments and
capital expenditure; 
 complex treasury instruments are not used in the normal course of business, any specific projects that may involve such instruments
are put to the Board;
 the directors confirm that they keep the effectiveness of the system of internal control under review.
Corporate governance