 26 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to the principle
and application of sound corporate governance.
The Company has complied throughout the
financial year with all the provisions of the
Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 
of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance except as stated below in respect
of Remuneration Committee membership
(Combined Code B.2.1). The Combined 
Code was substantially revised in 2003
following the publication of the Higgs and
Smith reports, taking effect for financial
years beginning on or after 1 November
2003. The Board has an ongoing review 
of its corporate governance policy and has
implemented some changes to take account
of the Combined Code and best practice.
Board and Board Committees
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for
promoting the success of the Company by
directing and supervising the Company's
affairs. The Board's role is to provide
leadership of the Company within a
framework of prudent and effective controls
which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Company's strategic 
aims and ensures that the necessary financial
and human resources are in place for the
Company to meet its objectives and reviews
management performance.
In addition, the Board sets the Company's
values and standards and ensures that its
obligations to its shareholders and others 
are understood and met.
The Board currently comprises three
Executive and six non-Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief
Executive are held separately. Mr RGBeeston
is the Senior Independent Director. During
the year each of the non-Executive Directors
has at all times acted independently of
management and has no relationships which
would materially interfere with the exercise
of their independent judgement and 
decision making. It is recognised that 
Mr D R Piette is not considered a fully
independent non-Executive Director 
because of his length of service.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times
per year. All Board members attend all Board 
proposed by the National Association of
Pension Funds for determining whether 
a non-Executive Director is independent.
Audit Committee
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee,
which meets at least three times a year, cover
all the points recommended by the Combined
Code. The Committee monitors the Group's
accounting and financial procedures,
including the discussion of the accounting
implications of major transactions, and
receives regular reports on the review 
of internal controls. The Committee is
responsible for the review of the annual
accounts and interim statement and meetings
with the external Auditor. The Audit
Committee receives written confirmation
from the external Auditor as to any
relationships that might have a bearing 
on its independence. The external Auditor 
also confirms whether it considers itself
independent within the meaning of the UK
regulatory and professional requirements. 
The Committee has adopted a policy on the
supply of non-audit services by external
auditors. The external Auditor is permitted 
to undertake some non-audit services, for
example tax compliance and advisory services
and due diligence activities associated with
potential acquisitions and divestments. 
Non-audit services and fees are reported to
the Audit Committee twice a year. For
guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to
the external Auditor should not exceed 75%
of the annual Group audit fee without prior
formal approval of the Committee. Approval
for permitted non-audit services are sought 
as required by the relevant Group policy.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee considers 
the appointment of Directors, reviews
succession planning at Board level, and
makes recommendations to the Board as 
a whole. A rigorous process is in place for 
the appointment of new Directors, involving
the use of external recruitment consultants,
where appropriate, followed by meetings both
with the Committee and then with the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible
for determining the remuneration of the
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary
and relevant Committee meetings unless
exceptional circumstances prevent them 
from attending.
The Board and its Committees, as detailed
below, receive timely information of a quality
that enables them to carry out their roles
effectively. All Directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary. A procedure is in place for any
Director to take independent professional
advice in the furtherance of his duties at 
the Company's expense. The Directors are
provided with opportunities for training 
to ensure that they are kept up to date on
relevant new legislation and changing
commercial risks. New Directors are given
appropriate induction training, including site
visits to major business units. During the year
the Board carried out a comprehensive self-
appraisal which was led by the Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director. The
appraisal included the performance of Board
Committees. All Directors and the Company
Secretary participated in the exercise. During
the current financial year the Board intends 
to repeat the process. The non-Executive
Directors meet separately at least once a year
to appraise the Chairman's performance.
Board Committees
The principal committees of the Board are
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. The Audit Committee comprises
independent non-Executive directors. In 
order to comply with the new Corporate
Governance provisions, Mr A P Hichens, 
as Chairman of the Company, retired as a
member of this Committee on 19 April 2004.
The Remuneration Committee comprises
independent non-Executive Directors with 
the exception of Mr Piette, who is no longer
considered an independent non-Executive
Director by reason of his length of service.
The Nomination Committee comprises the
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and 
Mr Beeston, the Senior Independent Director.
All Board committees have written terms 
of reference agreed by the Board. A copy 
of these is available on the Company's
website. The Audit Committee is chaired 
by Mr P M Johnson, the Remuneration
Committee is chaired by Mr Beeston and 
the Nomination Committee is chaired by 
Mr Hichens. The Board has used the criteria DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 27
and senior management. Mr Piette, a member 
of this Committee, is not considered fully
independent in accordance with current
corporate governance guidelines, by reason 
of his length of service. However he provides
an international view on remuneration and
continues to provide an objective opinion.
The Report on Remuneration is set out on
pages 28 to 34.
Other Board Committees 
The Board has delegated certain powers,
mainly of a routine nature, to the General
Purposes Committee, which comprises the
Group Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director under the chairmanship 
of the Group Chief Executive.
Relations with shareholders
The Company has a programme of regular
meetings (which sometimes includes the
Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director), site visits and results briefings 
with its major institutional shareholders,
which provides opportunities to discuss 
the progress of the business. The Board also
receives feedback from major shareholders 
in the form of independently prepared
reports. The Annual General Meeting is 
used as an opportunity to communicate with
private shareholders, including a short
presentation on the business and current
trading position as well as an opportunity 
for questions from investors to the Chairman
of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit
and Remuneration Committees. Regular
communication with shareholders also 
takes place through the annual and interim
reports and via the Company's website
www.dssmith.uk.com.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the
Group's system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system,
however, can only be designed to manage
rather than eliminate risk and can therefore
provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. In accordance with the Turnbull
Committee guidance, the Company
established the procedures necessary to
ensure that there is an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks to the Group. These
procedures have been in place for the whole
of the financial year ended 30 April 2004 
and up to the date of the approval of these
financial statements. 
The Board determines the objectives and
broad policies of the Group. It meets regularly
and there is a schedule of matters which 
are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Board has delegated to management the
responsibility for establishing a system of
internal control appropriate to the business
environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements of this system include:
  a set of Key Corporate Values which have
been communicated to all concerned;
  a clearly defined divisionalised
organisation structure for monitoring 
the conduct and operations of individual
business units; 
  clear delegation of authority throughout 
the Group, starting with the matters
reserved for the Board;
  a formal process for ensuring that key risks
affecting all the Group's operations are
identified and assessed on a regular basis,
together with the controls in place to
mitigate these risks. Risk consideration 
is embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are periodically
reported to the Board and considered by it;
  the preparation and review of comprehensive
annual divisional and Group budgets and
an annual review and approval by the
Board of the corporate strategy;
  the monthly reporting of actual results 
and their review against budget, forecasts
and the previous year, with explanations
obtained for all significant variances;
  clearly defined policies for capital
expenditure and investment, including
appropriate authorisation levels, with larger
capital projects, acquisitions and disposals
requiring Board approval;
  procedure manuals laying down common
control procedures and policies to apply
throughout the Group;
  formal quarterly meetings between central
and divisional management to discuss
strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Group's operational audit function
undertakes regular reviews of the Group's
operations and their systems of internal
control. The work of the function is
overseen by the Audit Committee, which
regularly reviews its plans and activities.
The Directors can confirm that they have
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's
system of internal control. This exercise
included a process of self-certification 
by senior divisional management in 
which they confirmed that their divisions
have complied with Group policies and
procedures and reported any significant
control weaknesses identified during 
the past year. It also involved reviewing 
the results of the work of the Group's
operational audit function and the risk
identification and management processes
identified above.
Going concern
The Directors, having made appropriate
enquiries, have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the accounts on pages 38 to 62.