 The 600 Group PLC 
annual report and accounts 2011
www.600group.com
14
Corporate governance
Other than as indicated below, the Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the period with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (the Combined Code ). Compliance with the provisions of the Combined 
Code relating to Directors' remuneration is covered by the Remuneration Report on pages 17 to 21.
The following relates to the Company's application during the period to 2 April 2011 of the principles and detailed provisions of the Combined Code.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
During the year, the Board was broadly balanced with for the majority of the year the non-executive Chairman supported by a non-executive 
Vice Chairman, one other non-executive Director and two Executive Directors. From 2 February 2011 onwards an additional non-executive Director 
was added to the Board. The Director recognised as the senior independent Director for the purposes of the Combined Code is S J Rutherford.
The Board of Directors met 18 times during the period. D H Norman and M G D Wakeman attended all meetings. M J T emple attended 17 meetings, 
S J Rutherford attended 14 meetings and C J Cundy attended eleven meetings until his resignation on 2 February 2011. Following their appointment 
on 2 February 2011 D Zissman attended three meetings and P R Dupee attended two meetings. The Board retains full and effective control over 
the Group and is responsible for overall Group strategy and management, acquisition and divestment policies, internal control, control of major 
capital expenditure projects and significant financing matters. It also reviews annual budgets and the progress towards achievement of those 
budgets. A schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board's decision has been agreed.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at regular intervals and at least 
every three years.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
BOARD COMMITTEES 
The Board has delegated specific responsibility to two committees, each with defined terms of reference. Minutes of their meetings are circulated 
to and reviewed by the Board. 
The Audit Committee consists of D Zissman, M J T emple and S J Rutherford. It is chaired by D Zissman (who the Board considers has recent and 
relevant financial experience). It met three times during the year, with the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and representatives of the 
external auditor in attendance. It reviewed the interim and final financial statements and considered the Annual Report and Accounts before 
submission to the Board for approval, the appointment of the external auditor, the scope of the audit and matters arising from the audit and internal 
control procedures. During the year M J T emple, D H Norman and M G D Wakeman attended all of the meetings of the committee. S J Rutherford 
and D Zissman attended two meetings and C J Cundy attended one. There is provision for the committee to meet with the auditor without the 
attendance of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee consists of S J Rutherford, M J T emple and D Zissman. It is chaired by S J Rutherford. It determines the terms and 
conditions of employment for Executive Directors and agrees the parameters of remuneration for the senior management. There were five meetings 
during the year. S J Rutherford and M J Temple attended all the meetings and C J Cundy attended three meetings until his resignation on 
2 February 2011. The Remuneration Committee also functions as the Nomination Committee. 
Owing to the size of the Board, it is not considered necessary for the Board to have a separate Nomination Committee.
INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board monitors the effectiveness of the systems of internal control principally through the regular review of financial information and the work 
of the Audit Committee.
Operational and compliance controls and risk management are part of the Group's basis of operation.
There are no formal policies in place for employees to raise concerns to the Audit Committee but all employees are encouraged to address 
concerns to their respective manager.
The Board has established key principles of corporate governance for the Group. These include:
  an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The process is reviewed regularly 
by the Board and accords with the requirements of the Combined Code; and
  a comprehensive financial reporting structure, including a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses which culminates 
in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.  The 600 Group PLC 
annual report and accounts 2011
www.600group.com
15
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts
INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The major elements of the system and the process of review are as follows:
 an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to executive management;
  a comprehensive framework for planning, budgeting and reporting the performance of the Group's operating units. Monthly results are reported 
against budget and forecasts (which are regularly revised);
 defined policies and minimum financial controls and procedures at each operating unit; 
 prescribed procedures for capital expenditure applications;
  confirmation by operating unit senior managers of compliance with the Group's procedures (regular internal control reviews are also carried 
out by Group finance staff); and
  the identification and appraisal of risks during the annual process of preparing business plans and detailed budgets and their regular review 
during the year. 
INTERNAL AUDIT
Head office staff visit locations on a regular cyclical basis. The results of these visits and reviews are reported to the Audit Committee.
RELATIONS WITH THE AUDITOR
During the year the auditor provided tax and other non-audit advice to the Company and its subsidiaries. The Board has considered the effect on 
the independence of the auditor and concluded that its provision of non-audit services was the most cost effective way of obtaining appropriate 
advice without a serious risk of compromising the independence of the auditor. The Audit Committee monitors the scope of the auditor's work. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company carries out a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders while having regard to UK Listing Authority guidance on the release 
of price sensitive information. Full use is made of the Annual General Meeting and the Company's website to communicate with private investors. 
The results of proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands. 
GOING CONCERN 
The Directors are confident, after making appropriate enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. Further information on this matter is 
set out in the Basis of Preparation section of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 600 Group PLC 
annual report and accounts 2011
www.600group.com
16
Corporate governance continued
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to 
prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
  for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company's transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report and Directors' Remuneration Report that 
complies with that law and those regulations. The Directors have also decided to prepare voluntarily a Corporate Governance Statement as if the 
Company were required to comply with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority in 
relation to those matters.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
On behalf of the Board
MARTYN WAKEMAN 
DIRECTOR
27 JULY 2011 