 Dunelm Group plc  Annual report 2007 7
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. This report explains how the Group has applied the 
principles of good governance and code of best practice set out 
in the Combined Code dated 2006, since the Group was floated 
on the London Stock Exchange on 24 October 2006.
Throughout the period from flotation to the end of the financial  
year the Group has complied with the Combined Code except  
as follows:
Until the appointment of Simon Emeny, the Board comprised 
two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, 
however only one of these (Marion Sears) was independent 
within the meaning of the Combined Code. With the 
appointment of Simon Emeny there is now an equal number 
of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
Prior to the appointment of Simon Emeny, Board committees 
did not have the required number of independent Non-
Executive Directors.
The selection process leading to the appointment of Simon 
Emery did not make use of external consultants, as the Board 
did not believe that the cost would be justified. The Board 
conducted a wide-ranging review of potentially suitable 
candidates and, as a whole, participated in each step of  
the search and selection process.
Geoff Cooper, Company Chairman, is also Chairman of the 
Audit Commitee. Given the balance of other independent 
Non-Executive Directors who sit on the committee this is 
not considered to result in the Chairman exercising undue 
influence over the committee.
There has not been in place until recently a formal written 
process for reviewing and managing risk in the business.  
The Board has considered catastrophe risk and businesss 
continuity plans have been developed. A formal review 
process is now also under development.
THE BOARD
The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, 
making decisions relating to the Group's strategic direction and 
measuring progress towards strategic goals.
The Board has 10 scheduled meetings per annum, including  
one strategy meeting. There was full attendance at all Board  
and Committee meetings subsequent to flotation except that  
Bill Adderley was absent from two Board meetings.
 
 
 
 
 
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision 
or approval, which is available on the Group's website or from the 
Company Secretary. Examples of such matters include Group 
strategy and budget, Group capital structure, approval of financial 
results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual 
commitments, maintaining internal control and risk management, 
and approval of Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive reports on operational 
performance (including health and safety) and the Finance 
Director reports on financial performance. Other matters are 
discussed by the Board as required, supported by a briefing 
paper where a decision is to be made by the Board.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the 
Company Secretary and committee secretaries respectively  
and circulated for approval. Any unresolved concerns raised  
by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors meet  
from time to time without Executive Directors being present. 
In addition the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity  
to meet at least once a year without the Chairman present as 
part of the appraisal process.
DIRECTORS
The Non-Executive Chairman is Geoff Cooper and the Chief 
Executive is Will Adderley. The Board has adopted a written 
statement setting out their respective responsibilities. In general 
terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the 
Chief Executive is responsible for running the Group's business.
The other Non-Executive Directors are Bill Adderley, Marion 
Sears and Simon Emeny. David Stead is an Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director is Marion Sears. 
The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on 
appointment, and that Marion Sears and Simon Emeny are 
independent. Overall the Board considers that there is a good 
balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Directors are required to retire from the Board by rotation and 
offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Corporate Governance report  8 www.dunelm-mill.com
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Audit Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, the other 
members are Marion Sears and Simon Emeny (from the time  
of his appointment). The Board considers that Geoff Cooper  
has recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of his 
professional qualification and his current executive role with  
Travis Perkins plc.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are 
available on the Group's website or from the Company Secretary.
The committee is scheduled to meet at least three times a year, 
to coincide with key dates in the Group's financial reporting and 
audit cycle. During the period under review it met in September, 
February and April. The Finance Director usually attends 
meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the 
external auditors.
The principal responsibilities of the committee are to:
monitor the integrity of the Group's financial statements and 
public announcements relating to financial performance;
oversee the external audit process, including the appointment 
of the auditors, their objectiveness and independence and the 
scope and effectiveness of the audit;
monitor the effectiveness of internal controls and consider 
annually the need for an internal audit function; and
review the process for identifying and managing risk 
throughout the Group. 
During the year the committee:
approved the interim results issued in March;
decided that an internal audit function was not required in 
view of the adequacy of financial controls in place;
confirmed the Group's policy for use of the auditors for non-
audit advice;
verified the independence of the auditors, and approved the 
scope of the audit plan and the audit fee;
reviewed the business continuity plans in place; and 
tasked the executive management to develop a formal risk 
management process.
The committee met privately with the auditors in the course of 
each meeting during the period.
The committee has approved a policy which allows employees 
to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear  
of discrimination.
The committee has also approved a policy that the auditors 
should only be used for non-audit work if they offer demonstrably 
better capability than alternative providers and there is no 
potential conflict with the independence of the audit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, the 
other members are Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny (since his 
appointment). The Chief Executive normally attends by invitation.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are 
available on the Group's website or from the Company Secretary. 
The committee's responsibilities include:
recommending to the Board the specific pay and benefits 
packages for the Executive Directors, including pensions  
and any compensation payments;
recommending and monitoring the level and structure of  
pay and benefits for senior management; and
implementing any awards made under share  
incentive schemes.
During the year the committee met twice and:
determined the pay reviews and incentive arrangements for 
Executive Directors; and
approved conditional share awards to be made to Executive 
Directors under the Group's Long-term Incentive Plan.
Further details of the committee's activities are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on page 10.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Marion Sears,  
the other members are Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny  
(since his appointment).
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are 
available on the Group's website or from the Company Secretary.
The committee's responsibilities include:
reviewing the composition and balance of the Board;
Board succession planning; and
making recommendations on appointments to the Board 
(including reappointments at AGM).
During the year the committee met three times. It led the  
search for an additional independent Non-Executive Director, 
culminating in the appointment of Simon Emeny. 
ADVICE AND INSURANCE
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. In addition Directors may seek legal advice 
at the Group's cost if they consider it necessary in connection 
with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors' and Officers' Liability insurance 
cover for its Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance report continued Dunelm Group plc  Annual report 2007 9
TRAINING
Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a 
comprehensive induction programme with visits to key sites  
and meetings with senior managers and other staff members.
 
Throughout the year all Directors have maintained a regular series 
of visits to stores and meetings with members of the senior 
management team. The Board has also received presentations 
from independent advisers on financial policy and on retail 
sector trends.
 
EVALUATION
The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive 
with regard to personal objectives agreed at the start of each 
financial year. The Chief Executive similarly appraises the 
performance of the Finance Director.
 
There is a well established process for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman, the other Non-Executive Directors, 
the Board Committees and the Board as a whole. This takes the 
form of a Board meeting convened solely for the purpose of such 
review. During the course of this meeting there is the opportunity 
for the Chairman or other individual Directors to be asked to leave 
the discussion whilst their performance is assessed.
 
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
A formal process for reviewing and managing risk in the business 
has recently been developed. Prior to this, the Board has 
considered catastrophe risk and businesss continuity plans have 
been developed.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk  
of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss  
and misstatement.
The Group maintains a well established control framework 
comprising clear structures and accountabilities, well understood 
policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Each store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within 
defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial 
targets, human resources management, customer service, health 
and safety etc. The Executive Directors monitor compliance with 
these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
There is a formal investor relations programme based around 
results presentations and trading statements. In addition analyst/
shareholder visits are arranged. All of the Non-Executive 
Directors are available to attend meetings at shareholder request. 
The Chairman and Executive Directors feed back any investor 
comments to the Board.
All Directors will be available at the AGM to meet with 
shareholders and answer their questions. 