 11 Corporate Governance e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Corporate governance
The rules relating to securities traded on the London Stock Exchange's AIM do not require AIM companies to report in accordance with 
the Combined Code. However, the Board believes in the principles of good corporate governance and is committed to applying the highest 
principles commensurate with its size. 
Board of Directors
The Company has a Board of six Directors, three of whom are Non-Executive. The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective 
stewardship of the Company's affairs and has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which include: 
  consideration of long-term strategic issues; 
  financial and budgeting decisions and control; and 
  ensuring the Company's compliance with good practice in corporate governance matters. 
A brief biographical summary of each Director is given on page 5.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda and has no 
involvement in the day-to-day business of the Company. He facilitates the effective contribution of the Directors and ensures that they 
receive accurate, timely and clear information and that they communicate effectively with shareholders.
The Company Secretary has administrative responsibility for the meetings of the Board and its committees and is responsible for advising the 
Board through the Chairman on all governance matters. All of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
Directors may also take independent professional advice at the Company's expense where necessary in the performance of their duties.
The Company's articles of association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
Independence of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who is an independent Non-Executive Director, three Executive Directors and two further 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The independent Non-Executive Directors, Oliver James, Brad Hoy and Rajesh Chopra, constructively 
challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Board's 
deliberations. The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre that their views carry significant weight in the Board's decision making. 
The Board considers Oliver James, Brad Hoy and Rajesh Chopra to be independent in character and judgement and they:
  have not been employees of the Group within the last five years;
  have not, or have not had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Group;
  have not received remuneration other than a Director's fee and the options awarded to them*;
  have no close family ties with any of the Group's advisers, Directors or senior employees;
  do not hold cross-Directorships or have significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies; and
  do not represent a significant shareholder.
*  During the year Brad Hoy provided temporary assistance to the Group on routine financial matters related to the preparation of statutory accounts, for which he was 
paid on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm's-length transactions. The work performed involved exercising only those responsibilities set out in the Statement 
of Directors' responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements and is therefore not considered to compromise his independence.
Professional development
On appointment, the Directors take part in an induction programme through which they receive information about the Group, the role of 
the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board and management committees, 
the powers delegated to those committees, the Group's corporate governance practices and procedures, including the powers reserved 
to the Group's most senior executives, and the latest financial information about the Group. This is supplemented by meetings with other 
key senior executives.
Throughout their period in office the Directors are continually updated on the Group's business, the competitive and regulatory environments 
in which it operates, corporate social responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Group and the industry it operates in as a whole 
by written briefings and meetings with senior executives. Directors are also advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and 
obligations as a Director of a listed company, both in writing and in face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary. They are reminded 
of these duties each year and they are also updated on changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and upon 
themselves as Directors.
Re-election
In accordance with the articles of association, each Director must be subject to re-election at least every three years. All newly appointed 
Directors are also subject to election by the shareholders. 
Board committees
The Board has appointed two standing committees to make recommendations to the Board in specific areas, as follows.
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, Oliver James and Brad Hoy. The committee is chaired by Brad Hoy. 
The Board considers that the members of the committee are independent Non-Executives. 12 Corporate Governance e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Board committees continued
Audit committee continued
The audit committee's terms of reference include the following roles and responsibilities:
   reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Company's published financial statements and other formal 
announcements relating to the Company's financial performance;
   reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Group's internal control (including internal financial control) 
and risk management systems;
   periodically considering the need for an internal audit function;
   making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Auditor 
and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditor; 
   reviewing and monitoring the external Auditor's independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
   monitoring the extent to which the external Auditor is engaged to supply non-audit services; and
   ensuring that arrangements are in place for the investigation and follow-up of any concerns raised confidentially by staff 
in relation to the propriety of financial reporting or other matters.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on request from the Company Secretary. The audit committee meets at least 
annually and has direct access to KPMG Audit plc, the Company's external Auditor.
The Company does not have an independent internal audit function as it is not currently deemed appropriate given the size of the Company 
and the nature of the Company's business.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, Oliver James and Brad Hoy. The committee is chaired by Oliver James. 
The Board considers that the members of the committee are independent Non-Executives.
The remuneration committee is responsible for approving:
  the remuneration of the Executive Directors, having regard to their performance;
  details of service contracts, pension arrangements and other terms and conditions on which Executive Directors are employed; and
  incentive bonus schemes and the allocation of share options and other long-term incentives to Executive Directors and other employees.
The committee normally meets twice a year to consider all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors. The committee is directly 
accountable to shareholders. As Chairman of the committee, Oliver James will be available at the AGM to answer questions about the 
remuneration of Executive Directors.
Investor relations
The Board recognises the value of maintaining regular communications with shareholders. Formal reports are sent to shareholders following 
the year end and an opportunity is given at the AGM to question the Board. Enquiries from shareholders are welcome at all times. Proxy 
voting figures for each resolution are announced at the AGM.
Internal controls
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that there are in place systems of internal control, both financial and non-financial, 
and for reviewing their effectiveness. The purpose of the internal financial controls is to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, 
the Company's assets are safeguarded and the financial information used within the business and for publication is accurate and reliable; 
such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board regularly reviews 
financial performance and results.
The Directors confirm that by means of the procedures set out above, and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on 
the Combined Code , published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, they have established a continuing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant potential risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal control systems. This process has been in place throughout and subsequent to the accounting period under review.
By order of the Board
Professor Oliver James
Chairman
18 June 2012
Corporate governance continued