 easyJet plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 
 
 
    
17
Corporate governance 
 
Principles Statement 
In June 1998 the London Stock Exchange adopted guidelines for Corporate Governance in the form of the 
Combined Code, which consolidated all prior guidance on such matters. A summary of how the provisions of that 
code have been applied together with a compliance statement is provided below. 
 
Board of Directors 
As at 30 September 2002, the Board comprised eight Non-Executive directors, including the Chairman, and two 
Executive directors, as set out on page 25 of this report.  
The roles of Chairman (Stelios Haji-Ioannou), Deputy Chairman (Sir Colin Chandler) and Chief Executive (Ray 
Webster) are separated and clearly defined. Tony Illsley is the Senior Non-Executive director.  The company regards 
Sir Colin Chandler, Colin Day, Tony Illsley, John Quelch and Diederik Karsten as independent Non-Executive 
directors. 
The Board meets regularly, with nine meetings being held during the year ended 30 September 2002. All members 
of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters, which are to be considered.     
All directors have access to the Company Secretary. 
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A director appointed by the 
Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting ( AGM'). At each AGM one-third of the directors 
will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election. The directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those 
who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment. 
Non-Executive directors are appointed for three year terms, after which time they may offer themselves for re-
election.   Executive directors are not appointed for specific terms, however, in practice each director will normally 
serve a term no longer than three years due to the required retirement by rotation of one third of the Board at each 
AGM.  
The Chairman, Stelios Haji-Ioannou, will step down as Chairman and as a director of easyJet plc on 26 November 
2002.  Sir Colin Chandler will assume the chairmanship. 
 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-Executive directors, of whom two are independent.  The 
Remuneration Committee is chaired by Tony Illsley. Its other members are Colin Day and Nick Hartley.  This 
Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the 
compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration 
packages for each of the executive directors.  
The board has discussed the composition of the Remuneration Committee and are satisfied that the directors who 
are members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committee's objectives.  easyJet plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 
 
 
    
18
Corporate governance (continued) 
 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive directors, of whom all are independent.  The Audit 
Committee members are Colin Day (chairman), Tony Illsley and Diederik Karsten.  This committee meets at least 
twice per year and has responsibility for, amongst other things, planning and reviewing easyJet's annual and other 
reports and accounts and the involvement of the group's auditor in that process, focussing particularly on 
compliance with legal requirements and accounting standards.  Additionally, the Audit Committee is responsible for 
compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority and seeking to 
ensure that an effective system of internal financial controls is maintained.  The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board. 
 
Nominations committee 
As at 30 September, the Nominations Committee members are Stelios Haji-Ioannou (chairman), Sir Colin Chandler 
(deputy chairman) plus any two of Nick Hartley, Colin Day and Tony Illsley.  This committee is responsible for 
nominating candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.   
Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting (AGM ) 
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board. There is also regular 
communication with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts on key business issues.  The group has an 
investor relations manager. 
It is the company's policy that the following procedures should be adhered to with respect to AGM's: 
  All proxy votes are counted and read out at the AGM; 
  Separate resolutions are proposed for each separate issue;  
  The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available for any questions at the 
meetings; and  
  It is the company's intention that notice of the forthcoming AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders 
at least 20 working days before that meeting. 
Statement of compliance 
The company complied with the Combined Code Provisions during the year, with the exception of the following: 
 
(a) The Remuneration Committee has not comprised at least three independent non-executive directors, 
because the board has satisfied itself that the directors who are members of this Committee are those 
who are best able to contribute to its objectives; and 
(b) Prior to Admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority, the group granted share options 
without performance criteria attached to them.  The majority of these options remain outstanding. 
Options granted since December 2000 have had performance conditions attached.  The group does not 
intend to grant further share options to employees without attaching performance conditions to their 
exercise.  easyJet plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 
 
 
    
19
Corporate governance (continued) 
 
 
Internal control 
The overall responsibility for easyJet's systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the 
directors of the company. The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the 
Chief Executive. However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.   
Guidance for directors,  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' was published in 
September 1999, in the form of the Turnbull Guidance.  The company complied with the guidance throughout the 
year ended 30 September 2002. A formal on-going process has been established to identify, evaluate and manage 
significant risks faced by the company and this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and this has been regularly reviewed by the Board during the 
period. 
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the company directors and has been 
adopted as follows: 
 
  On going assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting 
mechanisms embedded into the business operations. Key monitoring reviews include those conducted 
continuously by the Quality Group, in weekly meetings, including Commercial Operations, Marketing and 
Finance, and in monthly Executive Committee Meetings, where individual department and overall business 
performance is reviewed. Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise; 
  The Board considers the significant risks at each of its formal meetings; 
  Management consider significant business risks in formal monthly meetings; 
  Risk reviews form an integral part of specific projects, such as the acquisition of Go Fly and Deutsche BA and 
aircraft fleet purchases; 
  An annual risk and control identification process, together with control effectiveness testing, is conducted. The 
key risks to significant business objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the 
desired level are identified. The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high level risks, are tested to ensure 
that they are in operation. The results of this testing are reported to the Board who consider whether these high 
level risks are effectively controlled;  easyJet plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 
 
 
    
20
Corporate governance (continued) 
 
 
Internal control (continued) 
 
  Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified; and 
  A database of all risks has been created forming a key risk register for the company. 
The directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk 
management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.  The procedures used by the directors to review 
the effectiveness of these controls include: 
  Reports from management. Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the 
management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate; 
  Discussions with senior personnel throughout the company; and 
  Consideration by the audit committee of any reports from external auditors. 
Internal audit 
The company does not have an internal audit function. This is presently considered appropriate given the size of the 
company and the close involvement of executive directors and senior management on a day to day operational basis. 
The Board has considered the need for such a function and will continue to review the need for one from time to 
time. 
 
Going concern 
The Directors are satisfied, after due consideration, that the group has sufficient financial resources to continue in 
operation for the foreseeable future. On this basis, they continue to adopt the going concern principle in preparing 
the financial statements. 
 