 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013
70
During the year, the Audit Committee 
has continued its detailed scrutiny of the 
appropriateness of the Group's system 
of risk management and internal controls, 
the robustness and integrity of the Group's 
financial reporting, along with both the internal 
and external audit processes. 
The Committee has devoted significant  
time to reviewing these areas, which are 
integral to the Group's core management 
and financial processes, as well as engaging 
regularly with management, Internal Audit  
and the external auditor. 
The Committee has, where necessary, taken 
initiative in requesting information in order 
to provide the appropriate constructive 
challenge for its role (further outlined in this 
report). During the course of the year, the 
information that the Committee has received 
has been timely and clear and has enabled the 
Committee to discharge its duties effectively. 
The Committee is very supportive of the 
latest UK Corporate Governance Code 
recommendations. We have always strived 
to achieve the aims of the Code and the best 
practice recommendations of other corporate 
governance organisations, and believe that the 
revised Code allows the Audit Committee at 
easyJet to further strengthen its role as a key 
independent oversight Committee which has 
also added value to the Group.
Role
The primary function of the Audit Committee  
is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities. This includes reviewing the financial 
reports and other financial information before 
publication. In addition, the Committee also reviews 
the systems of internal controls on a continuing 
basis, with respect to finance, accounting, risk 
management, compliance, fraud and audit that 
management and the Board have established. 
The Committee also reviews the accounting and 
financial reporting processes; along with reviewing 
the roles and effectiveness of both the internal  
and external auditors. The ultimate responsibility  
for reviewing and approving the annual and other 
accounts remains with the Board. 
The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will:
  serve as an independent and objective party to 
monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial 
reporting process and monitor the internal 
financial control system;
  review and appraise the audit efforts of the 
external auditors;
  provide an open line of communication between 
the internal auditors, the independent external 
auditors and the Board of Directors;
  confirm and assure the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors (in particular,  
in the context of the provision of additional 
services to the Company);
  review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk 
management processes of the Company;
  review and monitor the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and management's 
responsiveness to any findings and 
recommendations;
  assess potential conflicts of interest of Directors 
on behalf of the Board; and
  report to the Board on how it has discharged  
its responsibilities.
Governance
Audit Committee report
David Bennett
Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
ANNUAL ST A TEMENT BY THE  
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE www.easyJet.com
71
Governance
Risk management and internal control
The Board, as a whole, including the Audit 
Committee members, consider the nature and 
extent of easyJet's risk management framework 
and the risk profile that is acceptable in order to 
achieve the Company's strategic objectives. As a 
result, it is considered that the Board has fulfilled  
its obligations under the Code. 
The Audit Committee continues to be responsible 
for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of  
the Company's on-going risk management systems 
and processes.
easyJet's system of internal controls, along with  
its design and operating effectiveness, is subject  
to review by the Audit Committee through reports 
received from management, along with those  
from both internal and external auditors.
Further details of risk management and internal 
control are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee has oversight responsibilities  
for the Internal Audit department. The Internal Audit 
annual plan is reviewed and approved and all reports 
arising therefrom are reviewed and assessed,  
along with management's actions to findings and 
recommendations. Further information on the  
Internal Audit department is given on page 69.  
The Head of Internal Audit is invited to and attends 
Audit Committee meetings and is also given the 
opportunity to meet privately with the Audit 
Committee without any members of management 
present. During the year the Audit Committee 
undertook an internal assessment of the effectiveness 
and independence of the Internal Audit function.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
During the year the Audit Committee's business has 
included the following items: 
  half year results; 
  full year results; 
  principal judgemental accounting matters affecting 
the Group based on reports from both the Group's 
management and the external auditors;
  external audit plans and reports;
  risk and assurance plans and reports, including:
 - key internal audit reports;
 - follow up of internal audit recommendations;
 - control themes;
 - internal financial control assessments;
 - fraud and loss prevention;
 - revenue protection;
 - risk assessment;
  information security and business continuity; 
  delegated authorities;
  whistleblower reports;
  Internal Audit effectiveness and independence;
  external audit effectiveness, independence  
and reappointment;
  anti-bribery and corruption procedures; and
  specific investigations as required.
Financial reporting and significant financial issues
The Committee assesses whether suitable 
accounting policies have been adopted and 
whether management have made appropriate 
estimates and judgements. The Committee reviews 
accounting papers prepared by management which 
provide details on the main financial reporting 
judgements. For example, during the year the 
Committee reviews the level of provisions and 
accruals recorded which are judgemental in nature. 
The Committee also reviews reports by the external 
auditors on the full year and half year results which 
highlight any issues with respect to the work 
undertaken on the audit. 
The two significant issues considered in the year  
are detailed below: 
  The Committee reviewed the maintenance 
provision at the year end. A number of 
judgements are used in the calculation of the 
provision, primarily pricing, utilisation of aircraft 
and timing of maintenance checks. The 
Committee addressed these matters using 
reports received from management which 
underlie the basis of assumptions used. The 
Committee also discussed with the external 
auditors their review of the assumptions 
underlying the estimates used. 
  The Committee considered whether the carrying 
value of goodwill and landing rights held by 
easyJet should be impaired. The judgement  
in relation to impairment largely relates to the 
assumptions underlying the calculation of the 
value in use of the business being tested for 
impairment, primarily whether the strategic plan  
is achievable and the overall macroeconomic 
assumptions which underlie the valuation process. 
The Committee addressed these matters using 
reports received from management outlining  
the basis for assumptions used. The strategic 
plan used in the calculation was approved by  
the Board. 
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made 
by management are reasonable, and that appropriate 
disclosures have been included in the accounts. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013
72
External auditors 
The Audit Committee has responsibility for  
making a recommendation on the appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the external 
auditors. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were 
reappointed auditors of the Group at the Annual 
General Meeting held in February 2013. During the 
year the Committee received and reviewed audit 
plans and reports from the external auditors. It is 
standard practice for the external auditors to meet 
privately with the Audit Committee without any 
member of management or the Executive Directors 
being present at each Audit Committee meeting. 
Audit tendering
The Audit Committee has noted the changes to  
the Code, the recent findings of the Competition 
Commission and the Guidance for Audit 
Committees issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council, each in the context of tendering for the 
external audit contract at least every ten years. The 
Company's external audit was last tendered in 
2005, resulting in a change of external auditors in 
2006 to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Since 2006, 
there have been two different senior statutory 
auditors in line with the required rotation timetable. 
Having previously conducted a full tender exercise 
and considered retendering in subsequent years, 
the Committee will continue to give consideration 
to the timing of the next formal tender in light of 
the regulatory requirements and any further 
changes in the regulatory framework. In any event, 
we do not anticipate that this will be earlier than the 
date of the rotation of the current senior statutory 
auditor. There are no contractual obligations that 
restrict the choice of external auditors.
Effectiveness of external auditors
T o assess the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, the auditors are asked on an annual basis 
to articulate the steps that they have taken to 
ensure objectivity and independence, including 
where the auditor provides non-audit services. 
easyJet monitors the auditors' performance, 
behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of 
their duties, which informs the Audit Committee's 
decision to recommend reappointment on an 
annual basis. This included this year obtaining  
a report on the auditors' own quality control 
procedures and consideration of their annual  
audit quality and transparency report. 
Non-audit services
The Audit Committee's terms of reference set  
out that they are responsible for the formal policy 
on the award of non-audit work to the auditors.  
In order to preserve auditor objectivity and 
independence, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are 
not asked to provide consulting services unless  
this is in the best interests of the Company. In the 
current financial year, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
did provide services in reporting on profit forecast 
and working capital in connection with the fleet 
order circular which falls under the Listing Rules  
as a class 1 transaction. It was considered that the 
services should be provided by the external auditor 
given their existing knowledge of the business, 
working capital and profits. It was also determined 
that the nature of the work would not undermine 
auditor objectivity and independence. This 
additional scope of work is in line with easyJet's 
non-audit services policy which is available in  
the governance section of easyJet's corporate  
website, http://corporate.easyJet.com. In the  
financial year, easyJet spent  0.3 million with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (2012:  nil) in  
respect of non-audit services.
David Bennett
Chairman of the Audit Committee
18 November 2013
Governance
Audit Committee report continued