 CHAIRMAN'S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Ebiquity strongly believes in the principles of good corporate governance. Good governance is not simply an end in itself, it 
ensures that Ebiquity's business is operated in the right manner and in the interests of all of its stakeholders. The Board recognises 
that it is responsible to shareholders for the direction and control of the Group. This report describes the framework for corporate 
governance and internal control that the Directors have established to enable them to carry out this responsibility.
It is a recent requirement of Rule 26 of the AIM Rules for Companies that the Company's website contains details of the corporate 
governance code that Ebiquity has decided to apply and how the Company complies with that code.
As a company listed on AIM, Ebiquity is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The corporate 
governance code that the Directors have decided to apply is the Corporate Governance Code for Small and Mid-Size Quoted 
Companies (2013) produced by the Quoted Companies Alliance (the  QCA Code'). 
The Board notes that the QCA Code refers to certain minimum disclosures which must be seen to be addressed in order for a 
company to say that it complies with the QCA Code. The Directors are of the opinion that the Company complies with these 
minimum disclosure obligations save to the extent referred to in this report. Set out below are those disclosure items which the 
Company does not currently comply with in full.
Disclosure Commentary
Audit Committee Report and 
Remuneration Committee Report
Historically, neither the Audit Committee nor the Remuneration Committee produced its 
own report for inclusion within the Company's report and accounts. This year, for the 
first time, the Company's annual report includes a Remuneration Report (on pages 28 
to 30). The Board will consider whether the Audit Committee should produce its own 
report as part of its next annual report and accounts.
Performance Evaluation
The performance of each of the Executive Directors is reviewed annually as part of the 
Group's yearly appraisal process for all employees. There has not historically been an 
annual assessment of the performance of the non executive Directors or of the Board 
as a whole (including its committees). The Board will review whether to commence such 
evaluation exercises during the current year. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the affairs of the Group. The Directors are also collectively 
responsible for acting in the way which they consider, in good faith, is most likely to promote the success of the Company for 
the benefit of Ebiquity's shareholders as a whole. In doing so, the Directors have regard (amongst other matters) to the interests 
of the Company's employees and the need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and other 
stakeholders.
A statement of the Directors' responsibilities with regards to the annual report and accounts is set out on page 31.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD 
At 15 July 2014, the Board of Directors comprises an independent Non-Executive Chairman, one further independent Non-
Executive Director and three Executive Directors. The Board is taking steps to appoint at least one additional independent Non-
Executive Director to the Board during the year. For the purposes of the composition of the committees of the Board, the Directors 
are of the view that Michael Higgins currently retains his independence notwithstanding that he also chairs the Board. 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Board is chaired by Michael Higgins. The Chairman's principal responsibility is to ensure that the Board is effective in 
interrogating, approving and monitoring the Company's direction and strategy. The Chairman is also responsible, in consultation 
with the Company Secretary, for ensuring proper information is supplied to the Board in a timely fashion, that Board meetings are 
conducted effectively and that proper debate is had at Board meetings.
Corporate Governance Report
23485-04 - 30 July 2014 2:55 PM - Proof 5
22    
Ebiquity plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2014
Ebiquity Annual Report 2014 - Proof 5.indd   22 30/07/2014   15:05:17 Michael Greenlees is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for setting long-term strategy, developing appropriate annual 
business plans, agreeing management KPIs and leading the Executive Directors and the senior executive team in the day-to-day 
running of the Group's business, including chairing the Executive Committee and communicating its decisions/recommendations to 
the Board. He is also responsible for shareholder communication and ongoing relationships with investors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate with each having clearly defined duties and responsibilities.
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD
As part of good governance there are certain matters which are not appropriate to be delegated to management or a committee 
of the Board and should be reserved for consideration by the Board as a whole. The Board has formally approved a list of such 
matters which include:
 	 Approving the annual budget and quarterly reforecasts
 	 Changes to the Group's capital structure
 	 Approving the Company's dividend policy
 	 Reviewing regulatory news service announcements made by the Company
 	 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management 
 	 Approving material contracts to be entered into by the Group
BOARD MEETINGS
The Board usually meets formally on seven occasions each year. During the year the Board met formally on eight occasions; the 
additional occasion was in connection with the review of strategic options announced on 15 August 2013. 
The Board receives monthly management accounts and other relevant information as appropriate in advance of each Board 
meeting.
There are a number of standing agenda items reviewed by the Board at each Board meeting, including current trading and 
outlook. Other items are considered by the Board as appropriate, including a regular review of the Company's governance 
arrangements.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is available to advise on any corporate governance issues which  
may arise. 
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has constituted several committees to help it in the performance of its functions. The principal committees are the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. The roles of these committees are set out below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee, which meets at least three times a year, is chaired by Richard Nichols and as at 15 July 2014 comprises 
Richard Nichols and Michael Higgins. The purpose of the committee is to ensure the preservation of good financial practices 
throughout the Group; to monitor that controls are in force to ensure the integrity of financial information; to review the interim and 
annual financial statements; and to provide a line of communication between the Board and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the performance of the external auditors on an annual basis, and for agreeing 
the scope of their work. The Audit Committee also monitors the level of non-audit work conducted by the external auditors to 
ensure that independence and objectivity are safeguarded. Details of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors are set out in 
note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least once a year, is chaired by Michael Higgins and as at 15 July 2014 comprises 
Michael Higgins and Richard Nichols. It is responsible for the Executive Directors' remuneration and other benefits and terms of 
employment, including performance related bonuses and share options.
23485-04 - 30 July 2014 2:55 PM - Proof 5
   23
Our Governance
www.ebiquity.com
Stock Code: EBQ
Ebiquity Annual Report 2014 - Proof 5.indd   23 30/07/2014   15:05:17 NOMINATION COMMITTEE
During the year the Board formally constituted a Nomination Committee. Prior to this the Board as a whole fulfilled the function of 
the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee meets as and when necessary and has responsibility for nominating to the 
Board candidates for appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the need for diversity and a broad representation of skills across 
the Board. The Nomination Committee was formed in March 2014 and as such did not meet during the year ended 30 April 
2014.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
Details of the Directors' attendance at the main Board and Committee meetings in the financial year is as set out below (number of 
meetings attended by each Director/the maximum number of meetings each Director was entitled to attend):
Board Audit Remuneration
Michael Higgins 8/8 4/4 3/3
Michael Greenlees 8/8    
Andrew Beach 8/8    
Nick Manning 5/8    
Richard Nichols 7/8 4/4 3/3
Paul Adams 4/6    
Stephen Thomson 5/6   2/2
Sarah Jane Thomson 4/6    
Jeffrey Stevenson 6/6    
Christopher Russell 6/6 3/3 2/2
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
In addition to the above, although not a formal committee of the Board, the Company's management has constituted an Executive 
Committee.
The three Executive Directors, together with the UK CEO, the Americas CEO, the HR/Marketing Director and the General 
Counsel/Company Secretary, comprise the Executive Committee, which meets on a monthly basis. The Executive Committee 
provides the principal vehicle for directing the Group's business at an operational level. 
Corporate Governance Report
23485-04 - 30 July 2014 2:55 PM - Proof 5
24    
Ebiquity plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2014
Ebiquity Annual Report 2014 - Proof 5.indd   24 30/07/2014   15:05:17