 10
Egdon Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate governance statement
The Egdon Resources plc Board is committed to running its business with integrity and high ethical standards across all of the Group's activities. 
The Directors recognise the value of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and whilst under the AIM rules compliance is not required, 
the Directors believe that the Company applies the recommendations in so far as is appropriate for a public Company of its size.
This statement explains how the Directors applied the principles of the code during the year ended 31 July 2009.
The Board
The Board comprises of one Executive Director and fi ve Non-Executive Directors all of whom served throughout the year.
The background and experience of the Directors are relevant to the Group activities and are summarised on page 9 of this report. As such, the 
Directors are of the opinion that the Board comprises a suitable balance and that the recommendations of the Combined Code have been 
implemented to an appropriate level. 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and met seven times in the year to 31 July 2009. All meetings were attended by all Directors, 
except one from which one Director was absent. In addition there was one meeting to approve administrative resolutions which was only partly 
attended although all Directors had approved the business. 
The Board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, fi nancial activities and operating performance. Day-to-day 
management of the Company is devolved to the Executive Director who is charged with consulting the Board on all signifi cant fi n ancial and 
operational matters. Consequently decisions are made promptly and following consultation amongst the Directors concerned where necessary 
and appropriate.
A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 14. 
The Company has established Audit and Remuneration Committees which are discussed further below.
Audit Committee
An Audit Committee has been established and comprises Ken Ratcliff (Chairman), Philip Stephens and John Rix. The Audit Committee is 
responsible for ensuring that the fi nancial performance of the Group is properly reported on and monitored. This includes reviewing signifi cant 
fi nancial reporting issues and accounting policies and disclosures in fi nancial reports. The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the 
external audit and monitors the integrity of the fi nancial statements of the Company. If required, meetings are attended by appropriate members 
of the senior management. The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Committee. The Audit Committee is also 
responsible for reviewing the requirement for an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee plans to meet at least twice a year. The committee met twice in the year to 31 July 2009 and all members were present at 
the meetings. 
Remuneration Committee
A Remuneration Committee has been established and its current members comprise Walter Roberts (Chairman), Philip Stephens and Ken Ratcliff. 
The principal objective of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that members of the executive management of the Company are provided 
with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual 
contributions to the success of the Company. 
The Company's policy is to remunerate senior executives fairly in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of staff. 
The Remuneration Committee agrees with the Board a framework for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Director and the senior 
management of the Company.  Non-executive fees are considered and agreed by the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee plans to meet at least twice in each year. It met once in the year to 31 July 2009 and all members were present at 
the meeting. However the members discussed whether a meeting was required at other times during the year.
Nomination Committee
The Company has not established a Nomination Committee as the Directors are of the opinion that such a Committee is inappropriate given the 
current size of the Group.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the Chairman and Managing Director have regular dialogue with institutional 
investors, as well as making general presentations to analysts at the time of the annual and interim results.
The Group maintains a website (www.egdon-resources.com) for the purpose of providing information to shareholders and potential investors. 
The website contains all news, releases, reports and accounts and public presentations. In addition further detailed information about the Group's 
activities is available on the website.
Enquiries from individual shareholders in relation to their shareholding and the business as a whole are welcomed and the website has an enquiry 
facility and contact details to assist in facilitating this. Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which they are able to 
put questions to the Chairman and other board members.
Internal controls
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls and risk management systems. They are 
designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of fi nancial information for both internal use and external publication. 
The controls which cover fi nancial and operational matters are reviewed on an ongoing basis. It is recognised that a system of internal controls 
cannot provide absolute assurance that material fi nancial irregularities will be detected or that a risk of failure to achieve business objectives is 
eliminated. The Board keeps under review the necessity for establishing an internal audit function but considers that, given the size of the Group 
and the close involvement of senior management in day-to-day operations, there is currently no requirement for such a function. 
Risk
The Directors are responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's risk management activities and internal control process. The Group is exposed 
to a range of technical, geological, operational, political, environmental, health and safety and fi nancial risks in the conduct of its operations.  11
Egdon Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
AGM Information
Financial Statements
Governance
Business Review
The Group seeks to manage and mitigate these risks through maintaining a spread of exploration and production interests, through compliance with the 
terms of its licences, through adopting policies appropriate to the Company's size and by the use of skilled personnel.
The table below sets out the principal risk factors that may affect the Group's business, their potential impact and mitigation strategies developed. Risks are 
grouped into four main categories: strategic; fi nancial; operational; and external. Such risk factors are not intended to be presented in any assumed order of 
priority. Any of the risk and uncertainties could have a material adverse impact on the business. The risks as set out are not exhaustive and additional risks 
and uncertainties, not presently identifi ed or considered material by the Company, may arise or become material in the future. In particular, the Company's 
performance might be affected by changes in market and/or economic conditions and in legal, regulatory and tax requirements.
Risk category Mitigation
Strategic risk
Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value.
Inappropriate mix of oil and gas interests Interests in two countries and several sedimentary basins.
Inappropriate allocation of resources between organic 
and acquisition-led growth 
Regular review of capital investment programmes. Board approval required for 
exploration programmes, acquisitions and divestments.
Ineffective or inadequate management processes Policies and procedures appropriate for an exploration and production company 
of Egdon's scale and size.
Loss of key staff/succession planning Remuneration policies to attract and retain staff.
Financial risk
Failure to meet fi nancial obligations to stakeholders.
Industry cost infl ation Use of rigorous contracting procedures with competitive tendering and fi xed price 
contracts wherever possible.
Oil and gas price volatility Use range of commodity prices in forecasting. Look to hedging as production volumes 
and number of fi elds increase.
Inadequate or excessive hedging Limited opportunity for hedging with current producing assets. Review hedging policy 
as production volumes and number of fi elds increase.
Uninsured events Comprehensive insurance policies.
Underperforming assets Range of production forecasting in budget process. Increase number and breadth of 
producing assets.
Cost over-run Main capital expenditure is in drilling operations. Look to farm-out projects where 
signifi cant risk of cost over-run exists to limit exposure.
Mis-priced corporate acquisitions Board approval required for acquisitions. Conservative valuation of assets.
Operational risk
Operational event impacts staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of reputation and/or revenue.
HSE incident HSE standards set and monitored across the Group.
Development failure Technical, Financial and Board approval of development projects with regular reporting 
of fi eld performance.
Sustained exploration failure Robust technical review of all projects. Board approval of exploration budgets and regular 
reporting of exploration results.
Corruption or reputation failure High levels of ethical standards apply to all Group activity.
Loss of key staff Remuneration policies to attract and retain staff.
Failure to secure equipment, services and resources Rigorous contracting and procurement procedures applied to all operations. Long term 
planning of required resources. Maintain intelligence on availability of equipment, services 
and materials in areas of operation. 
Corporate and social responsibility Maintain good community relationships.
External risk
Failure to manage and grow the business caused by external political, industry or market factors.
Political risk and fi scal change Develop sustainable relationships with government ministries and collaborate with 
industry bodies to communicate interests to government authorities.
Oil and gas price volatility Use range of commodity prices in forecasting. Look to hedging as production volumes 
and number of fi elds increase.
Lack of control of key assets Proactive formal and informal communications with joint venture partners
Corporate governance failings Review of compliance requirements and ongoing consultation with legal and fi nancial 
advisors and Audit Committee.
Shareholder sentiment Maintain good communications with shareholders. Present timely and transparent 
information. Maintain website. Effectively convey and execute corporate strategy.
Hostile acquisition Robust defence strategies against hostile acquisition. Effective and continuous 
communication with shareholders.