 > 10 Eidos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Overview
The Company is committed to:
> establishing and maintaining high standards of corporate
governance - the process by which the Group is directed and
managed, risks are identified and controlled and effective
accountability assured; and
> maintaining integrity and high ethical standards in all its
business dealings.
This Statement is intended to describe how the Group has applied
the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the
Code ), as appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. It also highlights key changes and progress made since
last year's statement and explains how the one remaining area of
non-compliance will be addressed.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, continually reviews
developments in corporate governance. Indeed, it undertook a
review programme during the period in order to ensure compliance
with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 (US) to which
the Company is subject by virtue of its NASDAQ listing. It will
undertake a further review now that the Financial Reporting Council
has adopted a new version of the Code (for reporting periods
commencing on or after 1 November 2003) which is based primarily
on the recommendations of the Higgs Report (into the role and
effectiveness of non-executive directors) and the Smith Report 
(into the role and responsibilities of audit committees). Any ensuing
changes will be set out in subsequent statements.
The Board
The Board comprised four non-executive directors (including the
Chairman) and five executive directors. Their biographical details and
standing committee memberships are shown on page 7. The offices
of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately with a clear
division of responsibility between them.
The Board met on 10 occasions during the year (with director
attendance in excess of 90%) and is scheduled to meet at least
nine times during the coming year. It provides effective leadership
and manages overall control of the Group's affairs. To this end,
a Board and Executive Manual (which is subject to annual review)
sets out:
> the duties, responsibilities and authorities of the directors;
> a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board's
decision, which includes approval of the long-term strategy,
annual budget, major capital expenditure, acquisitions 
and disposals, risk management policies and financial
statements; and
> in relation to non-reserved matters, the terms of reference
under which the Board has delegated certain responsibilities
to three standing committees.
Each of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent,
as determined by the Board, and together bring a wide range of skills
and international experience to bear on issues under consideration.
This helps ensure that independent judgement is exercised and that a
proper balance of power is maintained for full and effective control.
David Adams was appointed the Senior Independent Director on
5 March 2003.
All directors are required to stand for election at the first Annual
General Meeting following their appointment and to seek re-election
at least every three years. They have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary, who advises the Board in respect
of its procedures, corporate governance and all compliance matters,
and may, if necessary, take independent advice at the Company's
expense. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each standing
committee and his appointment or removal is a matter reserved to
the Board.
Audit Committee
Chairman, Victor Steel
The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors and
meets no less than four times a year with the external auditors
together with various representatives of the executive, finance and
internal audit functions in attendance. It also meets privately with
the external auditors on a regular basis.
The Committee's terms of reference were reviewed during the period
in order to facilitate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as
aforesaid. Consequently, the Committee:
> is responsible for the appointment, review and remuneration of
the external auditors and has authority to pre-approve their
engagement for both audit and permitted non-audit services
within an agreed framework;
> annually assesses the independence and objectivity of the
auditors;
> reviews the annual and interim financial statements, the Group's
accounting procedures and its financial control environment;
> reviews the Group's system of internal controls, including risk
management; and
> has appointed a Disclosure Committee which reports to the
Audit Committee Chairman.
Remuneration Committee
Chairman, Allen Thomas
The Remuneration Committee comprises the four non-executive
directors and meets at least twice a year and otherwise as necessary.
It advises the Board on the Company's remuneration strategy and
determines, on behalf of the Board, the individual remuneration
package of each of the executive directors and certain members of
senior management. Further details are included in the Report on
Directors' Remuneration on pages 13 to 18.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration, whether
determined by the Committee, or in the case of non-executives, by
the Board. Victor Steel, a Remuneration Committee member, will
stand for re-election as a director at the Company's forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Committee
Chairman, John van Kuffeler
The Nomination Committee comprises the four non-executive
directors together with the Chief Executive and meets at least once a
year. It is responsible for reviewing the composition and structure of
the Board and for making recommendations to the Board for its
consideration and approval.
> Directors' Statement on Corporate Governance
> 10 Eidos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Relations with Shareholders
The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationship and
communication with shareholders. Representatives of the Board
meet regularly with institutional investors, fund managers, financial
analysts and brokers, both in the UK and overseas, in order to
maintain a valuable dialogue within the parameters of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000.
Communication with shareholders is facilitated by the issue of full
year and interim reports which, together with other corporate
information and press releases, are available on the Company's 
website: www.eidos.com
The Annual General Meeting provides a forum for private shareholders
to raise issues with the directors. The Notice convening the Meeting is
normally issued at least 20 working days in advance and separate
resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue. The
results of the Meeting's proceedings are made available on the
Company's website.
Internal Controls
The Board is ultimately responsible for the good standing of the
Company, the management of assets for optimum performance and
for operating an effective system of internal controls appropriate to
the business. However, it must be recognised that any control system
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
Internal Control Environment
Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility rests with senior
management at territory head and operating unit level, although their
performance is closely monitored by the executive and the Board.
The following key elements comprise the present internal control
environment which has been designed to identify, evaluate and
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the Group in
seeking to achieve its business objectives. The process is
communicated through various operating, risk management and
accounting policies and procedures:
> an organisation structure with clear lines of responsibility and
delegated levels of authority;
> a comprehensive financial planning, control, budgeting and
rolling forecast system, which includes monthly risk and
opportunity assessment reviews;
> an independent internal audit function (which is subject to
annual review);
> a flat management structure which facilitates open and timely
communication; and
> an experienced legal function (recently strengthened) that
supports the Group's business needs, particularly from an
intellectual property protection and exploitation perspective.
Significant Improvements Made During the Period
The following significant improvements were made during the period:
> the review and enhancement of the annual sign-off procedure
by which operating unit management provide comfort to the
Board as regards their compliance with the Group's Operating
and Procedures Manual and the local system of internal
controls which are in place; and
> the introduction from 1 January 2003 of an integrated risk
management strategy and centrally coordinated framework for
the timely reporting of key business risks.
Internal Control Process
The CEO sponsored programme of Operational Excellence, which
includes the requirement for all operating units to undertake
annually a business risk self-assessment workshop, is in the early
stages of implementation. The workshops will be based on a Group
model developed in consultation with external advisors and the
results will form the basis of a centralised business risk register. 
The Corporate Risk Management Team, comprising the
Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and
Director of Finance, meets on a regular basis to monitor and
review material upwardly reported business risks as well as those
potential significant corporate risks identified from a top-down
review. A two-tier corporate risk register is maintained centrally and
includes mitigating action plans and responsibilities. This is
presented to the Board for discussion quarterly and to the
Audit Committee for full review on a half-yearly basis.
The Group's internal audit and control function plays a key role in
providing management and the Audit Committee with an
independent view and continuing assessment of the system of
internal controls and the progress being made against agreed
remedial action plans. The work programme of this function is
focussed on those areas of perceived greatest risk to the business
and is agreed annually in advance by the Audit Committee.
Review of Effectiveness
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls in place for the year
to 30 June 2003, taking account of any material developments since
that date, using the process set out above. The Board confirms that
the review revealed nothing which, in its opinion, indicated that the
system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
Compliance Status
The Board considers that throughout the period under review the
Company has complied with the requirements of the Code, except:
> as disclosed above in relation to the mid-term appointment of
the Senior Independent Director; and
> in relation to the absence of pre-vesting performance conditions
attaching to discretionary share option awards. This will be
addressed as part of the proposed new long-term incentive
plans to be put before shareholders for consideration and, if
thought fit, approval at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the
Company to be convened in due course.
> 11 Eidos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003