 Electronic Data Processing PLC annual report and accounts 2011 11
Business review Financial statements Corporate governance Overview Notice of meeting
Corporate Governance
The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance appropriate to its size and structure. In June 2010 the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC ) published the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code ) which replaces the Combined Code for financial 
years beginning on or after 29 June 2010. The Board recognises its responsibility to the Company's shareholders for good corporate 
governance and in doing so has given careful consideration to the principles of the Code as set out below. The Board is also aware of the 
FRC's additional recommendations on company stewardship, issued in September 2011, and acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring 
that the annual report and accounts, viewed as a whole, provides a fair and balanced report on its stewardship of the Group. 
Board structure and meetings
During the year under review the Board of Directors comprised five Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role. 
The Board is responsible for overall strategy and consideration of significant financial and operational matters including the identification 
and assessment of the risks the Company faces. The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to constructively challenge the Executive 
Directors and help develop proposals on strategy. 
The Board met on five occasions during the year and have met on two occasions since the year end. All Directors attended the five Board 
meetings held during the year with the exception of Mr A. R. Heller who attended four.
In addition the Executive Directors met on six further occasions during the year. The meetings were attended by all Executive Directors. 
These meetings allow prompt decision making and assist in the control of strategic, financial and operational issues. T o enable them to 
carry out their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.
Directors are able to seek independent advice at the expense of the Company.
Internal control
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control and have a process, which is updated 
when required, for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an organisational structure in place, with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authority, which is incorporated 
within the Group's Policy and Procedure directives.
Board approval is required for a number of matters, the most significant of which are:
  published financial statements;
  acquisitions policy; and
  dividend policy.
The following matters require the approval of the Executive Directors:
  capital expenditure and disposals;
  treasury procedures and investment policy; and
  banking arrangements.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, which has been in place 
for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts. This is regularly reviewed by the Board of 
Directors and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance.
A detailed budget is prepared covering all of the Group's operations. This budget is reviewed and approved by the Board. Detailed monthly 
management accounts are prepared on a timely basis comparing actual performance of the Group with budget and prior year. Any significant 
variances are investigated and appropriate action taken. Management reports are produced daily which include information on sales, 
gross profit, overheads, cumulative performance, cash flow and treasury matters.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls during the period. Together with senior management, 
the Board has identified, evaluated and managed the significant risks facing the Group.
The Board will amend the specific control procedures which are put in place to reduce these risks whenever appropriate in order to meet 
the demands imposed by the business sector in which the Group operates. Electronic Data Processing PLC annual report and accounts 2011 12
Corporate Governance continued
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises Mr M. A. Heller and Mr A. R. Heller. The Board consider the structure of the audit committee to be 
appropriate given the size of the Company. The audit committee held two meetings during the year, attended by both members. Also 
in attendance at both meetings were the Chief Executive, Finance Director and external auditor. 
The main responsibilities of the audit committee are:
  monitoring the adequacy of the Group's internal controls and financial performance;
   monitoring the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of the audit. At the audit planning stage the external auditors prepare an Audit 
Strategy document for consideration by the audit committee which discusses, among other things, areas of audit focus, managing 
independence, ensuring audit quality and audit materiality; and
    monitoring procedures to safeguard the objectivity of the auditor and its independence in relation to non-audit services. The policy 
is to ensure that the nature of non-audit services performed or the fee income relative to the audit fee does not compromise or is not 
seen to compromise the auditor's independence, objectivity or integrity. The auditor is excluded from undertaking a range of work 
on behalf of the Group which includes appraisal or valuation services, management functions, litigation support, legal accounting and 
remuneration services. The committee also monitors the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditor.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises Mr M. A. Heller, Mr A. R. Heller and Mr J. H. Wassell. The Board consider the structure of the 
remuneration committee to be appropriate given the size of the Company.
The remuneration committee is responsible for determining the remuneration packages and other terms and conditions for the executive 
Directors. The Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 16 contains details of remuneration policy and terms of appointment. 
Individual Director's remuneration is also detailed in the Directors' Remuneration Report. The remuneration committee held one meeting 
during the year and one meeting since the year-end which were attended by all members.
Nomination committee 
The nomination committee, established during the year, comprises Mr M. A. Heller, Mr A. R. Heller and Mr J. H. Wassell. The committee 
is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board. 
The committee did not formally meet during the year as the current composition of the Board is considered by the committee 
to be appropriate. The Board consider the structure of the Committee to be appropriate given the size of the Company. All Directors 
are subject to re-election at a maximum of every three years.
Going concern
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position along with 
the financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Chief Executive's Statement on pages 3 to 5. 
In addition note 18 to the financial statements includes details of the Group's financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a significant proportion of the Group's revenues being derived from long 
term contracts with established customers. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
annual report and accounts.
Share capital
Details of the Company's share capital structure are given in the Directors' Report and in note 21 to these financial statements.
Internal audit
The Board reviews from time to time whether there is a need for an internal audit function and on its last review concluded that, due to the 
size of the Group and the internal controls which are currently in place, no specific function is required at the present time. Electronic Data Processing PLC annual report and accounts 2011 13
Business review Financial statements Corporate governance Overview Notice of meeting
Investor relations
The Group enters into dialogue with both institutional and private shareholders at the AGM and also on an ad-hoc basis during the year. 
All Directors are required to attend the AGM in order, among other things, to ensure they develop an understanding of the views of the 
Company's shareholders. A separate resolution is held for each issue at the AGM. 
It is the Directors' intention that all shareholders will receive at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
The Group publishes its annual report and accounts and interim report along with other information on its website at www.edp.co.uk.
Compliance
The Group complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review other than as detailed below:
a)  The Group's Non-Executive Directors have not been appointed for specified terms. The Board considers that because of the 
requirement for the Non-Executive Directors to stand for re-election at least every three years, specified terms are not required. 
The Code prescribes that Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms (B.2.3).
b)  The Board is aware that the two Non-Executive Directors are not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code. The Board 
con siders that the structure of the Board is appropriate for the size and complexity of the Company.
c)  The Board considers that it is appropriate to operate a continuous, informal evaluation process given the size and complexity of 
the Company. The Code prescribes that the Board should state in the annual report how performance evaluation of the Board, its 
committees and its individual directors has been conducted (B.6.1).
By order of the Board
J. M. Storey
Director
12 December 2011