 12 Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance appropriate to its size and structure. The Board recognises its 
responsibility to the Company's shareholders for good corporate governance and in doing so has given careful consideration to the 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code ) (September 2012 edition) as set out below. The Board acknowledges 
its responsibility for ensuring that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, business model and strategy.
Board structure and meetings
During the year under review the Board of Directors comprised five Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role. 
The Board is responsible for overall strategy and consideration of significant financial and operational matters including the identification 
and assessment of the risks the Company faces. The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to constructively challenge the Executive 
Directors and help develop proposals on strategy.
In addition to his role as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, Sir Michael Heller is Executive Chairman of London & Associated 
Properties PLC and Bisichi Mining PLC, both of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board met on five occasions during the year and has met on one occasion since the year end. All Directors attended the five Board 
meetings held during the year with the exception of P . J. Davies who attended four.
In addition the Executive Directors met on twelve further occasions during the year. The meetings were attended by all Executive Directors.
These meetings allow prompt decision making and assist in the control of strategic, financial and operational issues. T o enable them 
to carry out their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.
Directors are able to seek independent advice at the expense of the Company.
Internal control
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control and have a process, which is updated 
when required, for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an organisational structure in place, with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authority, which is incorporated 
within the Group's policy and procedure directives.
Board approval is required for a number of matters, the most significant of which are:
  published financial statements;
  acquisitions policy; and
  dividend policy.
The following matters require the approval of the Executive Directors:
  capital expenditure and disposals;
  treasury procedures and investment policy; and
  banking arrangements.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, which has been 
in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts. This is regularly reviewed 
by the Board of Directors and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance.
A detailed budget is prepared covering all of the Group's operations. This budget is reviewed and approved by the Board. Detailed monthly 
management accounts are prepared on a timely basis comparing actual performance of the Group with budget and prior year. Any significant 
variances are investigated and appropriate action taken. Management reports are produced regularly and include information on sales, 
gross profit, overheads, cumulative performance, cash flow and treasury matters.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls during the period. Together with senior management, 
the Board has identified, evaluated and managed the significant risks facing the Group.
The Board will amend the specific control procedures which are put in place to reduce these risks whenever appropriate in order to meet 
the demands imposed by the business sector in which the Group operates. 13
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Audit committee
A description of the composition and activities of the audit committee is given in the Audit Committee Report on page 15.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises Sir Michael Heller, Mr A.R. Heller and Mr J.H. Wassell. The Board considers the structure 
of the remuneration committee to be appropriate given the size of the Company.
The remuneration committee is responsible for determining the remuneration packages and other terms and conditions for the Executive 
Directors. Mr J.H. Wassell is not involved in determining his own remuneration. The Non-Executive Directors serving on the remuneration 
committee are not involved in determining their own individual remuneration. The Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 25 
contains details of remuneration policy and terms of appointment. Individual Director's remuneration is also detailed in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report. The remuneration committee held one meeting during the year and one meeting since the year end which were 
attended by all members.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprises Sir Michael Heller, Mr A.R. Heller and Mr J.H. Wassell. The committee is responsible for proposing 
candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company on the Board, 
how the Board works together as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness. The committee did not formally meet during the 
year as the current composition of the Board is considered by the committee to be appropriate. The Board consider the structure of the 
committee to be appropriate given the size of the Company. All Directors are subject to re-election at a maximum of every three years.
The Board does not have a formal policy on diversity. Appointments to the Board are recommended by the nomination committee 
on the basis of the experience and abilities of the candidate, regardless of gender or race.
Going concern
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position along with 
the financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position, are described in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 7. In addition 
note 18 to the financial statements includes details of the Group's financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a significant proportion of the Group's revenues being derived from 
long-term contracts with established customers. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the annual report and accounts.
Share capital
Details of the Company's share capital structure are given in the Directors' Report and in note 21 to these financial statements.
Internal audit
The Board reviews from time to time whether there is a need for an internal audit function and on its last review concluded that, 
due to the size of the Group and the internal controls that are currently in place, no specific function is required at the present time.
Investor relations
The Group enters into dialogue with both institutional and private shareholders at the AGM and also on an ad-hoc basis during the year. 
All Directors are required to attend the AGM in order, among other things, to ensure they develop an understanding of the views 
of the Company's shareholders. A separate resolution is held for each issue at the AGM. 
It is the Directors' intention that all shareholders will receive at least 20 working days' notice of the AGM.
The Group publishes its annual report and accounts and interim report along with other information on its website at www.edp.co.uk. 14 Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance continued
Compliance
The Group complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review other than as detailed below:
(a)  The Group's Non-Executive Directors have not been appointed for specified terms. The Board considers that because of the 
requirement for the Non-Executive Directors to stand for re-election at least every three years, specified terms are not required. 
The Code prescribes that Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms (B.2.3).
(b)  The Board is aware that the two Non-Executive Directors are not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code. As a result 
there is no senior independent Non-Executive Director and the Company therefore does not apply Code provisions A.4.1 and A.4.2. 
The Board considers that the structure of the Board is appropriate for the size and complexity of the Company.
(c)  The Board considers that it is appropriate to operate a continual, informal evaluation process given the size and complexity of the 
Company. The Code prescribes that the Board should state in the annual report how the performance evaluation of the Board, 
its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted (B.6.1).
(d)  The audit committee and remuneration committee are both chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman and as a result the Company does 
not fully comply with Code provisions C.3.1 and D.2.1. The Nomination Committee has no independent Non-Executive Directors 
serving on it and consequently the Company does not comply fully with provision B.2.1. The Board considers that the structure of the 
Board committees is appropriate for the size and complexity of the Company.
(e)  The Non-Executive Chairman, who has served on the Board for over nine years, stands for election every three years rather than every 
year as prescribed by provision B.7.1. The Board considers this is appropriate given the Company's size and complexity.
By order of the Board
J. M. Storey
Director
16 December 2013