 Shareholders Chairman CEO (supported by 
the management 
team)
Board Audit
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Effectiveness
Hold the Board  
to account for its 
stewardship of  
the Company  
and its assets.
Ensures all aspects of 
the Board's operation 
(including information 
and support) and the 
relationship between 
executives and 
non-executives are 
effective, supported 
by the Company 
Secretary, policies 
and procedures.
Operates a 
transparent, no 
surprises culture and 
within a schedule of 
delegated authorities; 
reports regularly to 
the Board to keep all 
directors informed on 
all key aspects of the 
businesses: financial 
performance, major 
risks, opportunities 
and compliance 
issues, HSE 
performance and 
investor relations.
Programme of 
meetings, operational 
site visits, regular 
presentations from 
and interaction  
with the businesses, 
tailored induction with 
annual performance 
evaluation and 
on-going training  
and development 
activities all help 
Board members to 
contribute effectively.
Clear terms of reference define roles and responsibilities, programme of 
meetings support their work and all directors attend meetings so there is 
total transparency and a collective understanding of all major issues. 
No directors vote on 
matters concerning 
themselves.
Executive directors  
do not decide/vote  
on their own 
remuneration or on 
performance targets.
Accountability
Approve the Annual 
Report & Accounts.
Regular contact with 
and reports from CEO 
and Finance Director.
Ensures programme 
and processes 
effective for keeping 
the Board fully 
informed on all 
material aspects  
of the Group's 
operations.
Oversight of  
financial reports, 
trading statements, 
other market 
communications, 
principal risks and 
uncertainties, and 
compliance and 
internal controls.
Report to the Board but Chairmen of Committees are accountable  
to shareholders for the work of the Committees.
Remuneration
Give a binding vote  
on the Remuneration 
policy report and  
an advisory vote  
on the rest of  
the Directors' 
remuneration report.
Determines with the 
executive directors 
the level of fees for  
the non-executives 
and is consulted by 
the Remuneration 
Committee  
over executive 
remuneration. 
Determines with  
the Chairman the  
level of fees for the 
non-executives.
N/A N/A N/A Determines the  
level of executive 
remuneration and  
the Chairman's fee 
and consults with  
the Chairman,  
major shareholders 
and shareholder 
representative  
bodies on executive 
remuneration 
proposals.
Shareholder engagement
AGM, meetings with 
management and, 
where necessary,  
the Chairman or SID.
Maintains an 
appropriate level of 
engagement with 
shareholders and, in 
his absence or where 
inappropriate, the  
SID is available to 
shareholders if they 
have any concerns.
Maintains a 
programme of 
meetings with major 
shareholders to stay 
informed of investors' 
views and ensures 
appropriate relations 
are kept with the 
financial press and 
market analysts.
Ensures processes 
are in place for the 
Board to be kept 
informed of investors' 
views and market 
expectations; 
alternative channels 
exist for major 
shareholders to raise 
any issue of concern 
with the Board. 
Report to shareholders through the medium of the annual report and 
also the platform of the AGM.
Consults major 
shareholders and 
their representative 
bodies when 
proposing changes  
to executive 
remuneration.
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27 Board composition
As identified on page 24, the Board comprises 2 executive directors (Chief 
Executive and Finance Director) and 4 non-executive directors (Chairman 
and 3 other non-executive directors). The number of non-executives will 
increase following the appointment of Andrew Duff on 1 April 2014. 
Information about the executive directors' service contracts with the 
Company is set out in the Directors' remuneration report. All non-executive 
directors are appointed for three year terms that can be renewed by 
mutual agreement, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, 
satisfactory performance and meeting independence requirements. 
Non-executive directors who do not meet independence requirements 
under the Corporate Governance Code are appointed to hold office for  
1 year at a time.
When Robert Beeston retired as Chairman on 31 July 2013, Ian Brindle was 
appointed Chairman on 1 August 2013 until a more permanent replacement 
was recruited. During this period, Ian Brindle was both the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director. When Andrew Duff becomes Chairman after 
the AGM on 24 April 2014, Ian Brindle will continue in his role as the Senior 
Independent Director. Further details about the non-executive directors' 
terms of appointment (including fee levels) are set out in the Directors' 
remuneration report. Changes are expected to be made to the Board's 
composition this year, as described elsewhere in the Annual Report, in 
connection with the Board's succession plans. 
Board diversity
The Board's policy on gender diversity is that appointments will be  
made on the basis of qualification and a preference for a woman would 
only be given in the event that two candidates are equally matched in  
all other respects in relation to the role specification. In respect of the 
recommendations of the Davies Review into  Women on Boards' in 2011, 
the Board has not set a minimum target for the percentage of the Board  
to be female. Since the Board is undergoing a refreshment process,  
this position will be kept under review during 2014. Gender diversity  
below Board level is discussed in the Corporate responsibility report. 
Board independence
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent  
in character and judgement throughout 2013. The Board is satisfied  
that each director exercises independent judgement and believes  
no individual or group dominates decision making. 
Board operation
As well as the summary in Table 1 on pages 26 and 27 the Board 
maintains a schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision which 
includes: approval of strategic and annual operating plans; approval of 
financial statements, acquisitions and disposals; risk compliance and 
management programmes, as well as insurance arrangements; major 
non-recurring projects and major capital expenditures; and major legal 
settlements and litigation. The Board reviews the business, financial and 
operational ( HSE') performance of the Group at each of its formal meetings, 
including major business initiatives, threats and opportunities, as well as 
progress on product innovation and new customers.
To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appropriate 
quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and committee 
meetings. If there are any unresolved matters concerning Board decisions, 
of which there were none in 2013, these would be recorded in the minutes of 
meetings. A programme exists to ensure new directors receive appropriate 
induction tailored to their needs. A tailored programme of induction was 
agreed with Anne Hyland on her appointment which included meeting the 
internal and external auditors, members of the management and business 
leadership teams, as well as the Company's joint corporate brokers.  
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, 
at the expense of the Company. 
Director attendance in 2013
Board
Audit
 Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Ian Brindle 8/8 4/4 6/6
1
-
David Dutro 8/8 - - -
Brian Taylorson 8/8 - - -
Andrew Christie 8/8 4/4 6/6 8/8
2
Anne Hyland 5/5 3/3
3
4/4 5/5
Kevin Matthews 8/8 4/4 6/6 8/8
Former directors
Robert Beeston 3/5 - 2/3 -
Chris Girling 4/5 2/3 2/3 4/5
1
 Ian Brindle became Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2013.
2
  Andrew Christie became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on  
1 October 2013, a role previously held by Kevin Matthews until then. 
3
  Anne Hyland became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013, 
a role previously held by Chris Girling until then.
Communications with shareholders
A formal programme of activities is maintained throughout the year 
to ensure there is effective communications with shareholders, analysts 
and the financial press that include stock exchange announcements, 
investor meetings, the Annual Report and updates on the corporate 
website. In addition, the AGM gives institutional and private shareholders 
the opportunity to speak with the directors; the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions. 
The Board receives regular feedback reports from shareholders following 
meetings with management in results and other investor roadshows. 
Analysts' forecasts and research reports about the Company and 
the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and reports from 
the Company's joint corporate brokers, are provided to all directors 
on a timely basis, helping non-executive directors to develop a clear 
understanding of the views of major shareholders. The Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders 
at any time.
From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, in connection with 
remuneration proposals, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
will organise a programme of meetings with major shareholders to 
update them on any significant developments in business strategy, 
corporate governance matters or consult them on proposals for 
executive remuneration.
By order of the Board
Wai Wong
Company Secretary
25 February 2014
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 28
Corporate governance report
continued