 Compliance
The Company complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority. In relation to Code provision D.2.2 the
Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that because of the size of the Company it
cannot be justified at present.The Board reviews this position annually.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors comprised three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors throughout the year ended
31 December 2002. On 5 February 2003, Mr P J Viggers resigned as a Non-Executive Director, reducing the number of Non-
Executive Directors to two.The Board meets at least monthly and is primarily responsible for determining strategy, acquisition
and divestment policy, review and approval of annual budgets, allocating financial resources and determining the financial
structure of the Group. No one individual Board member or group of Board members dominates the Board's decision taking.
The Chairman of the Board, Mr G A Elliot, maintains regular contact with Non-Executive Directors to review the Board's
relationship with the Executive Committee.
All Directors are re-elected every three years by rotation with two Directors retiring from office at the Company's Annual
General Meeting and may offer themselves for re-election.
Members of the Board are informed of the Company's business and activities by reports and proposals sent to them in advance
of each Board meeting and reports made to them during these meetings by the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, and the
Chief Operating Officer.The Board is advised of actions taken by the committees of the Board as well as of significant actions
taken by management.
In compliance with the Combined Code, Mr J P Silcock, who is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of
the Audit and Nomination Committees is identified as the senior independent Non-Executive Director.The Board appoints the
Company Secretary who is responsible for assuring that Board procedures and rules are applied. All Directors have access to
the advice and service of the Company Secretary, who is not part of the executive management of the Company.
Qualification for membership of the Board includes a requirement that Non-Executive Directors be free from any relationship
with the Executive Management of the Company that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent
judgement. In the Board's view all Non-Executive Directors fulfil this requirement.
During 2002, the Company complied with the provision of the Combined Code, but with the retirement of Mr P S Viggers on
5 February 2003 and the pending retirement of Mr J P Silcock at the upcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company is not in
compliance with the following Combined Code provisions:
  the Board does not include a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors (including independent Non-Executive
Directors)
  the Audit Committee of the Board does not comprise at least three Non-Executive Directors.
The Company's intention is to appoint two replacement Non-Executive Directors to rectify this non-compliance. During the
interim period Mr G A Elliot and Mr I M Alexander will comprise the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees of
the Board.
The Board Committees
The Board delegates specific authorities through four committees.
Executive Committee: The Executive Committee is comprised of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Chief
Operating Officer.The Executive Committee meets as required to deal with the day to day running of the Group and has
specific powers delegated to it by the Board as deemed appropriate.
Audit Committee: The Audit Committee is comprised of all the Non-Executive Directors solely, meets at least twice a year and is
chaired by Mr G A Elliot.This Committee considers the audit process and reviews the Group's financial statements prior to
submission to the Board to ensure that they represent a true and fair view of the Group's financial position and are prepared in
accordance with current legislation. It reviews the Group's internal control systems and deals with all matters relating to the
Company's auditors. A representative of the auditors and the Finance Director usually attend meetings. Since the year end
Mr P S Viggers has resigned as a Director.The Board is in the process of recruiting a replacement Non-Executive Director.
10
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the year ended 31 December 2002 Remuneration Committee: The Remuneration Committee is comprised of all the Non-Executive Directors solely and is chaired
by Mr J P Silcock.This Committee determines annually the individual salaries and fees and other terms and conditions of
employment for the Executive Directors and is responsible for the operations of the Company's share option plan. It has access
to professional advice from a leading firm of remuneration consultants and the Company's employment lawyers.
Nomination Committee: The Nomination Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors.The Chairman of the
Nomination Committee is Mr G A Elliot.The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board,
having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.The Committee is able to employ the services of advisers, as it deems
necessary.
Relationship with Shareholders
The Directors seek to communicate the objectives of the Company to its private and institutional shareholders by: making a
presentation about the business, its performance and future prospects at the Annual General Meeting; meeting members of the
investment community and institutional shareholders regularly to discuss issues and obtain feedback; ensuring private investors
have access to the Board at the Annual General Meeting and maintaining a corporate web site which provides information on
the Group including the facility to request press releases by e-mail.
Remuneration of Executive Directors
Information is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 13 to 16 setting out the details of the remuneration for
each of the Executive Directors during the year.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The Articles of Association provide that the Board shall determine the remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors. Non-
Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is given in
the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 13 to 16.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal
control. Internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of a business and mange the risks but not eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. By its nature, any system of internal control can only provide reasonable and
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year the Board has reviewed the adequacy of the Group's internal control and risk management procedures in
accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code.There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
significant risks.
The corporate risk management methodology employed involved a number of workshops. As a consequence all major risks
relevant to the Group have been identified and their risk ranking has been estimated.
These processes were in place from 1 January 2002 and were in place up to the date of approval of the accounts and accord
with the Turnbull guidance.
In addition to the internal financial controls outlined below and in the context of the wider aspects of internal control it is the
responsibility of the Directors to ensure that environmental controls, health and safety regulations, security and political risks
have all been considered.
Internal Financial Control
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal financial control.The key
procedures, which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal financial control, are as follows:
Management Structure - The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for decision by the Board. Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the
Group's affairs.
Corporate Accounting - Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate accounting and
authorisation manual, which sets out authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
11 Quality and Integrity of Personnel - The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards.
Budgetary Process - There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board covering capital expenditure,
cash flow, the Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet.
Investment Appraisal - The Group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure.These include authority levels,
commitment reporting, annual budgets and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
Audit Committee - The Audit Committee monitors the controls, which are in force in the Group, and also considers and
determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors.The application of internal financial
control procedures is reviewed during visits to overseas offices by financial staff.The internal financial control situation is
reported to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it operated during
the year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
By order of the Board
G S Cole
Company Secretary
2 June 2003
12