 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2010
29
Governance
Corporate governance statement
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors' responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1.  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
2.  the management report, which is incorporated into the 
Chairman's statement and Chief Executive's business review 
and Finance review, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the board
Miles Hunt Spencer Wreford
Director Director
30 March 2011
The principal roles of the board are the protection and 
advancement of shareholders' interests, providing overall 
direction for the Group and establishing and maintaining a 
framework of delegated authorities and controls which ensure 
the efficient and effective management of the Group's 
operations. A formal schedule of matters reserved for 
consideration by the board gives it responsibility for: 
  overall Group strategy and objectives;
  approval of the Group annual budget and progress 
towards achievement of these budgets;
  changes to the Group's capital structure;
  changes to the Group's activities;
  changes to the senior management structure;
  approval of Group financing arrangements and  
treasury policy;
  approval of major acquisitions, disposals and additional 
investments in existing operations; and
  approval of major unbudgeted capital expenditure projects.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and all Directors are able to take 
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their 
duties if necessary.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, will submit 
themselves for re-election at least once every three years. Any 
Directors appointed to the board during the year will submit 
themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment. In accordance with the Company's 
Articles of Association one-third of the board is required to 
retire by rotation each year.
Board committees
The board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit 
committee and Remuneration committee. Following each 
committee meeting the Chairperson of the committee updates 
the board on the matters discussed. The terms of reference for 
each of the committees are available to view on the Company's 
website. Details of the work carried out by the Audit and 
Remuneration committees can be found in the Audit committee 
report on pages 31 to 32 and the Directors' remuneration report 
on pages 33 to 34.
The board has deemed it appropriate for all members of the 
board to participate in the recruitment of members of the board. 
All board Directors have the opportunity to independently 
assess the suitability of potential candidates for vacancies 
which arise. Final approval for board appointments is given 
by the board as a whole. The appointment of Spencer Wreford, 
as Group Finance Director, followed a process of engaging an 
external search agency to source potential candidates based on 
a written job specification. Interviews were conducted initially 
by the Chief Executive and subsequently by the board 
Chairman and Chairman of the Audit committee prior to the 
final proposal and approval being sought from the board.
Corporate governance
The board is committed to maintaining its high standards of 
corporate governance, managing the Group in an efficient, 
effective, entrepreneurial and ethical manner for the benefit of 
shareholders over the longer term. Whilst the Company is not 
subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 
June 2008 (the Code ) applicable to companies listed on the 
Official List, the Directors recognise the value and importance 
of sound corporate governance and support the principles of the 
Code. The board has considered the implications of the 2010 UK 
Corporate Governance Code on the Group's governance and 
will comply with those provisions considered appropriate for 
the size of the Group.
An explanation of how the main principles have been applied is 
set out below and in the Directors' remuneration report and 
Audit committee report.
Directors
The board constitution and procedures
The Company is controlled through the board of Directors 
which meets regularly during the year. The Non-executive 
Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present  
if required.
The board has a balance of skills and experience, and 
biographies of the Directors can be found on page 25. The  
board is made up of two Executive Directors, Miles Hunt and 
Spencer Wreford, and three Non-executive Directors of whom 
two (Penny Freer and Zach Miles) are deemed by the board to 
be independent of management and free from any business or 
other relationships which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement. The Chairman is  
not considered to be independent as he holds a significant 
shareholding in the Company. Recognising that the Chairman 
is not an independent director, the board will appoint one of the 
independent Non-executive Directors to the position of Senior 
independent director during 2011. This position will enable 
shareholders to address any concerns to the board through  
an independent channel of communication.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running  
of the board. At the beginning of each year board meetings  
are scheduled in line with the key financial reporting dates.  
A more detailed agenda together with the board papers is 
distributed at least seven days before each board meeting.  
All Directors receive sufficient relevant information on 
financial, business and corporate issues to enable informed 
decisions to be taken at the board meetings. The regional heads 
of operations in the UK, Europe and Asia are invited to attend 
board meetings on a rotational basis to provide an update  
on the implementation of strategy, business objectives and 
performance in the relevant region. Any specific actions arising 
during meetings are agreed by the board and a follow-up 
procedure ensures their completion. The Chief Executive's 
responsibilities focus on implementing Group strategy and 
running the board of Management. The board of Management 
comprises the two Executive Directors and the regional heads  
of operations in the UK, Europe and Asia.
Governance Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2010
30
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, 
the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or 
weaknesses which it has determined to be significant. 
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has 
not been considered appropriate.
The Group's system of internal control is designed to safeguard 
the Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of information 
used within the business and for publication. Such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Audit committee and auditors
A separate Audit committee report is set out on pages 31 to 32 
and provides details of the role and activities of the committee 
and its relationship with the external auditors.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of 
objectives between the Company and its institutional 
shareholders by:
  making annual and interim presentations to institutional 
investors;
  meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and  
obtain their views; and
  communicating regularly during the year.
Relations with shareholders are managed principally by the 
Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director. The views 
of shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole 
through regular board meetings and communication between 
meetings. Although primary responsibility for effective 
communication with shareholders lies with the Chairman, the 
Executive Directors prepare presentations for analysts and 
institutional investors following the interim and preliminary 
announcements. 
During 2010 Penny Freer conducted meetings with major 
shareholders to develop an understanding of their views about 
the Company. These views were communicated to the board. 
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to 
communicate to shareholders. Shareholders are encouraged to 
participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the 
Chairman will present an update on the Group's performance. 
The board, together with the Chairpersons of the Audit and 
Remuneration committees will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Board evaluation
The board is reviewing its current system of appraisal of the 
Chairman and Non-executive Directors which will incorporate 
the role of the Senior independent director in the appraisal of 
the Chairman. This work will be completed during 2011.
Attendance at meetings
During the year the number of meetings of the board and 
committees and individual attendance by the members were  
as follows:
Main 
board
Audit
committee
Remuneration
committee
Number of meetings held 7 2 1
Tony Martin (Chairman) 7 1 -
Miles Hunt  
(Chief Executive) 7 - -
Spencer Wreford  
(Group Finance Director 
from 4 May 2010) 5 - -
Stuart Kilpatrick  
(Group Finance Director 
until 4 May 2010) 2 - -
Penny Freer  
(Non-executive Director) 7 1 1
Zach Miles  
(Non-executive Director) 7 2 1
All Directors attended all meetings that they were eligible  
to attend.
Remuneration
The level and make-up of remuneration and procedure for fixing 
the individual remuneration packages of individual Directors is 
described in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 33 to 34.
Accountability and audit
Internal control
The board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's 
system of internal control. A review has been completed by the 
board for the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of 
approval of the annual report.
The board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management. It is 
based primarily on reviewing reports from management to 
consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, 
managed and controlled and whether any significant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for 
more extensive monitoring. The Audit committee assists the 
board in discharging its review responsibilities.