 34
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
Audit Committee report
Role and composition of the Audit Committee
The role and terms of reference for the Audit Committee 
includes all matters indicated in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code ) and can be found on the 
Company's website (www.empresaria.com).
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to 
the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers 
that action or improvement is needed, and make 
recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, with 
a minimum requirement of two such Directors, one of whom 
should be a financially qualified member. Appointments are 
for a period of three years and are extendable by no more 
than two additional three year periods.
The members of the Audit Committee are:
Name
Date of appointment 
to the Committee Qualification
Zach Miles 
(Chairman) 1 October 2008
Chartered
 accountant
Penny Freer 2 November 2011
Zach Miles's biography can be found on page 25. It is 
the Board's position that both Zach Miles and Penny 
Freer continue to be independent. 
Meetings
The Audit Committee is required to meet formally twice per 
year, which it has done during 2012. Since the beginning of 
2012 to the date of this report the Audit Committee has met 
five times in total to fulfil its responsibilities.
Meetings held during December to March are held to 
review various matters relating to the audit of the financial 
statements, including the planning of the annual audit 
process and the review of the auditors' final report on its audit 
of the report and financial statements. Additional meetings 
are held throughout the year to specifically address risk 
management matters and to discuss significant judgemental 
areas of the accounts. 
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director and 
senior representatives of the external auditor to attend all of 
its meetings, although it reserves the right to request any of 
these individuals to withdraw from the meeting.
Principal activities
Since the beginning of 2012, to the date of this report the 
principal activities undertaken were as follows:
Financial statements
The terms of reference assigns responsibility to the Committee 
for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Company. The Committee considered and reviewed:
  the 2011 and 2012 Annual report and accounts; and
  interim 2012 results (unaudited).
The reviews included the accounting policies, significant 
financial reporting issues and key judgements and estimates 
underpinning the financial statements, including:
  going concern;
  carrying value of goodwill and investments; 
  provisions relating to restructuring costs and claims 
for potential retrospective pay and social security;
  deferred tax assets value; and
  prior year restatement
as disclosed within notes 2 and 3. 
For going concern and the carrying value of goodwill and 
investments, the Committee examined the assumptions 
supporting the Group's profit and cash flow forecasts and 
the sensitivities applied to those forecasts, the banking 
facilities available and the assessment of the Group's 
covenant compliance based on the forecasts. In preparing 
the forecasts growth rates were based on the GDP for 
the countries in which the Group operates except, for the 
purpose of determining the carrying value of goodwill and 
investments, growth rates were capped at 5%. Sensitivities 
applied included both increasing and reducing forecast 
revenues, with corresponding adjustments to cost of sales, 
reducing gross margin, increasing debtor days and for 
goodwill, increasing the cost of capital and the effect of nil 
growth. In each case the Group had sufficient headroom 
under its banking facilities, banking covenants were complied 
with and no goodwill impairment was indicated. Further 
details are included in the Finance review on page 22 and in 
notes 1 and 14 to the financial statements.
For the other key judgements and estimates, the Committee 
was satisfied with the assumptions made and the accounting 
treatments adopted.
Audit of the Annual report and accounts
Deloitte LLP, the Company's external auditor, reported to the 
Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit. 
The Committee held meetings with the auditor and the 
following activities were undertaken:
  reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be 
undertaken by the auditors, noting the role of the senior 
statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and 
who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held 
office for more than five years, and any changes in the key 
audit staff; 
  agreed the 2012 audit fees to be paid to the external 
auditor for its audit of the 2012 financial statements;
  reviewed the external auditor reports on its audit of the 
2012 annual report and financial statements;
  reviewed the external auditor's fulfillment of the agreed 
audit plan and any variations from the plan;  Governance
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
35
  reviewed the robustness and perceptiveness of the 
auditor in its handling of the key accounting and audit 
judgements; and
  reviewed the management representation letter and 
management's response to the auditor's findings and 
recommendations prior to signing by management.
The Committee discussed the views and conclusions of 
Deloitte LLP regarding management's treatment of significant 
transactions and areas of judgement during the year.
Risk management and internal control arrangements
Risk management is the responsibility of the Board of 
Directors. The Committee's responsibility is to keep under 
review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's 
internal financial controls and internal control and risk 
management systems.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties that could 
affect business operations can be found on pages 22 to 23.
Due to the size of the Group, and the costs involved, the Audit 
Committee continues to recommend to the Board that there is 
no requirement for an internal audit function. Risk management 
and internal control review processes are reviewed by the 
Committee and managed by the Group Finance Director 
assisted by the Group Company Secretary and regional 
financial controllers. 
The Group's whistle blowing policy contains arrangements 
for the Group Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, 
complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, 
auditing issues and related matters. 
The Group has a mandatory Code of Conduct which sets 
out the minimum expected behaviours for all employees. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed:
  reports on control reviews conducted covering 
financial, operational and compliance controls and
risk management;
  the Group and subsidiary legal structure; 
  the Group treasury policy prior to presentation to the 
Board for approval; 
  adequacy of finance resourcing throughout the Group. 
Actions were agreed and taken as appropriate to support 
and enhance the internal control arrangements; and
  a report from the external auditor on its review of the 
effectiveness of controls across the Group and received 
a report on management action taken in response to 
work undertaken by the auditor in relation to 2011.
External auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Group's policy on 
external audit. The terms of reference assigns responsibility 
to the Committee for overseeing the relationship with the 
external auditor. As part of the 2012 audit process, and 
in accordance with the terms of reference, the following 
activities were undertaken:
  assessed the external auditor, considering the 
qualification, expertise and resources, and independence 
of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit 
process. This included consideration of a report on the 
audit firm's own quality control procedures and the audit 
firm's annual transparency report; 
  assessed the risk associated with the possible withdrawal 
of the external auditor from the market and noted that 
there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice 
of external auditor; and
  reviewed the overall extent of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor. The Audit Committee 
has established a policy on the non-audit services 
which the external auditor will and will not be allowed 
to provide to the Group, subject to de minimis levels. 
During the year the auditor was not engaged to provide 
non-audit services.
Note 7 to the financial statements includes disclosure of the 
auditor's remuneration for the year, including an analysis of 
audit services, audit related services and other non-audit 
services under those headings prescribed by law.
Following the completion of the 2012 audit process, the 
Audit Committee is satisfied with the performance of 
Deloitte LLP and has recommended to the Board that 
Deloitte LLP is re-appointed. 
Assessment of the Audit Committee
The Committee conducted a self assessment of its 
performance during the year, against its terms of reference. 
The Board concluded that the Committee has acted in 
accordance with its terms of reference and had ensured the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the 
work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Zach Miles
Chairman of the Audit Committee
19 March 2013