 11
corporate governance statement
The Directors are committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate
Governance. This statement sets out how the Board has applied the
principles of good corporate governance in its management of the
business in the period ended 31 December 2006.
Board of Directors
During the period under review the Board comprised two executive and
three non-executive Directors. Biographies of the Directors are provided
on pages 6 and 7 and set out the broad range of commercial, technical
and financial expertise possessed by Board members. The combination
of skills and talents ensures that strategic focus and sound commercial
stewardship is available to the Group. The Non-Executive Directors are
highly experienced, exercise independent judgements on issues arising
and are able to challenge constructively the decisions of the Executive
Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, ensuring an
appropriate division of responsibilities at the head of the Group.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders and re-election
thereafter is by rotation at intervals of not more than three years.
All Directors are offered an opportunity to request information and training
relevant to their legal and other duties as a Director. They are also given
written rules and guidelines setting out their responsibilities within an AIM
listed company. All Directors are able to take independent legal and
professional advice, if required, at the expense of the Company. Directors
have access at all times to the services of the Company Secretary who is
responsible to the Board for ensuring that all agreed policies and
procedures are followed and all relevant rules and guidelines are
complied with. 
Meetings of the Board
The Board, which meets at least ten times per year, has overall
responsibility for the strategic direction and management of the business.
All key decisions affecting the Group are considered by the Board as a
whole. The annual Group budget and business plan, trading and cash
flow forecasts, major items of capital expenditure and any other
significant strategic actions all require Board approval. 
Board meetings are subject to a formal agenda and receive reports on
the performance of each of the Group's businesses. Monthly
management accounts, that compare actual results with budget, are
subject to detailed review. Other strategic and commercial issues are
considered as required. Board decisions are communicated on a timely
basis to management to ensure that operational implementation occurs
without delay. 
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are A C Elsborg (Chairman), 
A J Aubrey and B M Gray. Executive Directors are permitted to attend
meetings at the discretion of the Chairman of the Committee. The
Committee meets at least twice a year and there is an opportunity for any
meeting to be in private between the non-executive Directors and the
Company's auditors to consider any matter they wish to bring to the
attention of the Committee.
The terms of reference and areas of delegated responsibility of the Audit
Committee are in the consideration and approval of the following matters:
 monitoring the quality and effectiveness of the internal control
environment, including the risk management procedures followed by
the Group; 
 reviewing the Group's accounting policies and ensuring compliance
with relevant accounting standards;
 reviewing the Group's reporting and accounting procedures;
 ensuring that the financial performance of the business is properly
measured and reported on;
 recommending the reappointment of the auditors and the level of
their remuneration;
 considering reports from the auditors on the outcome of the audit
process and ensuring that any recommendations arising are
communicated to the Board and implemented on a timely basis;
 reviewing the Board's statement on internal control in the annual
report and accounts; and
 ensuring compliance with the relevant requirements of the AIM Rules
for Companies. 
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee are A C Elsborg
(Chairman), A J Aubrey and B M Gray. The Committee meets at least
once a year and at such other times as its Chairman shall require and its
terms of reference and areas of delegated responsibility are:
 determining the terms and conditions of service of all Directors
including their remuneration and the granting of share options;
 seeking professional advice, as required, in order to ensure that the
Group's remuneration arrangements are both competitive and
appropriate to its scale and complexity by reference to other similar
businesses; and
 ensuring that the Group complies with the relevant requirements of
the AIM Rules for Companies.
Members of the Committee are not involved in any decisions in meetings
at which their own remuneration is discussed.
Communication with Shareholders
The Board is committed to constructive dialogue with its shareholders.
The Company uses the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its
shareholders. The AGM will be held at 10 a.m. on 16 May 2007 at the
Company's registered offices, Steam Packet House, 76 Cross Street,
Manchester, M2 4JU.
The Group's website (www.energetixgroup.com) is the primary source of
information on the Group. This includes an overview of the activities of
the Group, information on the Group's subsidiaries and details of all
recent Group announcements. 
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains
a system of internal control to provide them with reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial information used within the business
and for publication. The Board is also responsible for ensuring that assets
are safeguarded and risk is identified as early as practically possible. As
noted, the Audit Committee has a significant role in this area. The internal
control systems established are designed to manage rather than
completely eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. 12
Energetix Group plc Annual Report 2006 www.energetixgroup.com
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control
and its reporting procedures and augments and develops these
procedures as required to ensure that an appropriate control framework
is maintained at all times.
The principal control mechanisms deployed by the Group are:
 Board approval for all strategic and commercially significant
transactions; 
 detailed scrutiny of the monthly management accounts with all
material variances investigated;
 executive review and monitoring of key decision-making processes at
subsidiary board level;
 Board reports on business performance and commercial
developments; 
 periodic risk assessments at each business involving senior executive
management;
 standard accounting controls and reporting procedures; and
 regular liaison with the Group's auditors and other professionals as
required.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial
Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss
of the Group for that period. In preparing these Financial Statements, the
Directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
Financial Statements; 
 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in
business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial
Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
In so far as the Directors are aware:
 there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's
auditors are unaware; and
 the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
Auditors
Grant Thornton UK LLP were appointed as first auditors of the Company
in accordance with Section 385(3) of the Companies Act 1985, and offer
themselves for reappointment. 
On behalf of the Board
Adrian Hutchings
Chief Executive Officer
2 April 2007
corporate governance statement continued