 18 Energy Assets Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Principal Business  
Risks and Uncertainties
With	70%	of	our	revenue	being	long-term	recurring	revenue,	over	up	to	20	years,	much	of	our	business	is	considered	to	be	predictable	and 	
relatively	 low	 risk.	
Nonetheless,	potential	risks	to	the	business	are	continuously	reviewed	as	part	of	our	operational	risk	self	assessment	process	and	actions 	 	
to	mitigate	these	risks	are	identified.	The	key	risks	identified	and	managed	are	set	out	below.
Risk/Uncertainty Mitigation
Interruption  
or failure  
of IT systems
A	competitive	advantage	of	the	Group's	offering	is 	
the	quality	and	seamless	nature	of	the	IT	platform. 	
Failure	of	one	or	all	of	these	systems	could	impair 	 	
the	Group's	ability	to	provide	services	and	manage 	
and	invoice	assets	effectively.	This	could	have	a 	
significant	effect	on	the	reputation	of	the	business. 	
Energy	Assets	has	experienced	internal	IT 	 	
software	development	resource	within	the 	 	
Group	and	operates	a	stringent	test	regime	in 	
respect	of	operating	platforms.	Disaster	recovery 	
and	business	interruption	processes	are	regularly 	
tested.	The	Group	is	confident	that	systems	are 	
robust	with	appropriate	back-up	procedures	in 	
place	both	on	and	off-site. 	
Debt funding 
availability
We	are	aware	that	the	continued	rapid	growth	of 	 	
the	Group	is	reliant	on	the	ability	to	arrange	suitably 	
priced	debt	funding	to	expand	the	asset	portfolio. 	
This	may	be	affected	by	prolonged	periods	of 	
market	volatility	or	illiquidity.
Ongoing	dialogue	with	potential	funders	has	given 	 	
the	Directors	confidence	that,	in	the	current	market 	
conditions,	debt	will	be	available	as	and	when 	
required	under	current	growth	plans. 	
The	Group	continues	to	build	strong	relationships 	
with	new	funding	partners	who	are	keen	to	work 	
with	Energy	Assets	to	continue	increasing	its 	
installed	meter	base	through	existing	contracts 	 	
and	service	new	opportunities	as	they	arise. 	
Energy	Assets	has	arranged	funding	which,	based 	
on	current	plans,	covers	a	period	of	at	least	18 	
months	and	recent	refinancing	negotiations	have 	
resulted	in	a	revised	pricing	structure	on	a	large 	
proportion	of	the	Group's	debt	resulting	in	reduced 	
interest	costs.	A	 25m	facility	has	also	been	agreed 	
with	Bank	of	Scotland	during	the	year	in	addition	to 	
the	current	available	facility	with	Lombard.	Unused 	
facilities	at	the	year	end	amounted	to	 39m.
Reliance on the  
performance of 
subcontractors
The	Group	utilises	a	number	of	third	party 	
installation	partners	to	install	its	metering	assets 	
and	to	carry	out	engineering	and	infrastructure 	
works	for	the	Siteworks	division. 	
If	one	of	the	subcontractors	were	to	undertake	poor 	
quality	work,	or	cause	an	incident,	the	Group	could 	 	
be	held	responsible.	This	could	ultimately	affect	the 	
Group's	accreditations	and	damage	its	reputation 	 	
and	relationships	with	key	clients. 	
The	Group	monitors	all	installation	activity 	
undertaken	on	its	behalf	and,	where	the	quality 	 	
of	the	work	does	not	meet	requirements,	the 	
installation	company	will	be	removed	from	vendor 	
lists	immediately	and	alternative	installers	sought 	
for	the	outsourcing	of	work	going	forward.
The	Group	ensures	that	all	installation	partners 	 	
are	fully	accredited	for	the	services	they	provide 	
and	monitor	their	ongoing	accreditation	status 	 	
and	service	levels.
The	Company	is	a	registered	OAMI	and	continues 	 	
to	develop	and	expand	the	existing	internal 	
resource	team	enabling	further	control	over 	
operational	 activities.
The	development	of	the	DLO	model	has	further 	
mitigated	the	potential	impact	of	poor	performance 	
within	the	supply	chain	and	increases	the	Group's 	
ability	to	control	its	operational	activities.
Changes in  
government  
policy
Current	government	policy	is	for	all	meters	to	be 	
smart	or	advanced	by	2020.	This	drives	a	large 	 	
part	of	the	growth	prospects	of	our	business	over 	
the	coming	years.	Any	changes	in	law	or	legislation 	 	
may	adversely	affect	the	Group.
Should	the	DECC	mandate	a	higher	specification 	 	
of	advanced	meters	than	those	already	installed	by 	
Energy	Assets	this	could	necessitate	replacement 	
of	those	meters.	This	would	not	be	deemed	a 	
termination	event,	and	accordingly	the	cash 	
pay-back	(8-9	years	for	meters)	and	improvement 	
in	returns	would	be	delayed.
The	Group	actively	engages	with	industry 	 	
bodies	and	working	groups	and	contributes	to 	
sector	consultation	to	ensure	awareness	and 	
understanding	of	potential	changes	in	policies 	 	
and	the	impacts	arising	from	these.	Energy 	 	
Assets	also	has	well	respected	internal	resource 	
influencing	industry	standards	and	DECC	policy. 19
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Risk/Uncertainty Mitigation
Economic 
conditions
Changes	in	economic	conditions	may	have	an 	
adverse	effect	on	demand	for	the	Group's	services 	
and,	therefore,	the	overall	results	of	operations	and 	
the	financial	condition	and	prospects	of	the	Group. 	
In	addition,	public	sector	customers	may	face 	
extensive	budgetary	pressures	which	may	affect 	 	
the	extent	and	type	of	services	they	use	and	may 	
reduce	the	prices	they	are	willing	to	pay.
Energy	Assets	seeks	to	ensure	that	its	customer 	 	
base	is	a	broad	mix	of	retail	organisations,	local 	
governments	and	purchasing	clubs	minimising 	 	
the	effect	of	economic	conditions	and	short- 	 	
term	 decisions.
Pricing pressures
The	Group	competes	for	business	mainly	on	the 	
basis	of	the	quality	of	its	service	offering	as	well 	 	
as	on	the	basis	of	competitive	pricing.	Increased 	
competition,	including	more	competitive	pricing, 	
could	result	in	greater	downward	pressure	on 	 	
asset	rental	prices	and	thereby	lower	the	Group's 	
revenues	which	would	harm	its	business,	results 	 	
of	operations	and	financial	condition.
Pricing	pressures	are	regularly	monitored	and 	 	
the	Group	maintains	strong	relationships	and 	
communication	with	all	customers.
The	Group	constantly	reviews	its	prices	and	costs 	 	
to	ensure 	these 	remain 	competitive 	whilst 	continuing 	
to	ensure	adequate	levels	of	shareholder	return. 	
Dependency on  
a limited number  
of gas suppliers
In	relation	to	the	MAM	division	the	Group	is	in 	
commercial	contracts	with	and	is	reliant	on	a 	
number	of	key	gas	suppliers,	in	particular	Corona 	
from	whom	36%	of	the	Group's	revenue	is	derived. 	
Whilst	there	are	termination	provisions	in	place 	 	
within	these	contracts,	there	is,	therefore,	a	risk 	
surrounding	the	quality	of	the	relationship	with 	
these	customers	and	also	in	relation	to	their 	
performance.	Damage	to	these	relationships 	 	
or	any	adverse	impact	on	the	performance 	 	
of	these	customers	would	have	an	impact 	 	
on	the	revenue	generated	by	the	Group.
The	Group	maintains	strong	relationships	with 	 	
all	 customers.	
Customer	service	is	paramount	and	the	level	of 	
service	provided	to	Energy	Assets'	customers	is 	
second	to	none	to	ensure	that	relationships	with 	
customers	remain	strong.	Strict	service	levels	are 	
monitored	throughout	the	business	to	ensure	the 	
Group	meets	and	exceeds	customer	expectations.
The	successful	acquisition	of	EAES	in	the	prior	year 	
and	the	recent	acquisition	of	BGM	and	the	contracts 	
therein	have	further	diluted	the	reliance	on	the 	
existing	customers	and	has	delivered	significant 	
opportunity	for	the	continued	controlled	growth 	 	
of	the	Group.
Change of  
gas supplier  
by end-user 
consumer
Meter	assets	owned	and	managed	by	the	Group 	
may	become	used	by	a	different	gas	supplier 	 	
as	end-user	consumers	change	gas	suppliers, 	 	
a	process	known	as	 churn'. 	
This	may	lead	to	the	handback	of	the	meters	to	the 	
Group	and	a	corresponding	loss	of	rental	income 	
which	would	leave	the	Group	with	the	additional 	
costs	of	re-deploying	the	assets	and,	in	some 	
instances,	debt	service	obligations	on	assets	that 	
have	not	fully	amortised.	This	would	be	particularly 	
onerous	if	the	Group	were	unable	to	re-deploy	the 	
meters	promptly,	or	at	all. 	
The	Group	strives	to	maintain	continued	dialogue 	
with	a	number	of	gas	suppliers	and	those	in	need	of 	
our	services	as	a	fully	integrated	metering	solution. 	
Energy	Assets	now	serves	a	total	of	30	gas 	
suppliers	who	represent	over	80%	of	the	I&C	gas 	
market	by	volume	of	gas	supplied	and	the	Group 	
seeks	to	build	and	maintain	strong	relationships 	
with	all	of	these	gas	suppliers	ensuring	the	risk 	 	
of	churn	is	minimised. 	
Loss of required  
accreditations
The	installation	and	maintenance	of	gas	meters	is 	 	
a	regulated	activity	in	the	UK	and	significant	levels 	 	
of	accreditation	are	required	to	operate	as	a	MAM 	
which	are	subject	to	annual	reviews. 	
Consequently,	any	loss	of	required	accreditations 	
would	mean	that	the	Group	would	be	unable	to 	
continue	to	operate.
The	Group	takes	its	commitment	to	retaining 	
accreditations	seriously	and	the	internal	compliance 	
manager	is	responsible	for	ensuring	all	requirements 	
are	met	and	all	staff	members	are	fully	trained	on 	
their	responsibilities	in	relation	to	these.	This	has 	
been	reflected	in	the	results	from	the	most	recent 	
accreditation	 audits.	
The	Company	has	no	significant	non-conformities 	 	
in	respect	of	the	below	accreditations:
MAMCoP	
GIRS	
ASPCoP	
ISO9001:2008	 	
Gas	Safe	Registration 	
OAMI	
OHSAS18001:2007
By	order	of	the	Board
Philip Bellamy-Lee John McMorrow
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
10	June	2014	 	 10	June	2014