 10 Envesta plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Corporate Governance
The Directors'
acknowledge the
importance of the
Principles set out in The
Combined Code issued
by the Committee on
Corporate Governance.
Although not required to
make these disclosures,
the Directors set out
below how these
principles have been
applied during the year:
The Board of Directors
At 30 June 2002 the Board comprised a
Non-Executive Chairman, a Finance Director,
two Executive Directors and a Non-Executive
Director. The Board will always include Non-
Executive Directors of sufficient calibre and
number to bring independent judgement on
the key issues facing the Group.
The Board meets regularly throughout the
year to review performance against pre
agreed budgets. The Board has a formal
schedule of matters specifically reserved to 
it for decision covering overall strategy,
acquisition and divestment policy, approval 
of budgets and major capital expenditure
projects and general treasury and risk
management policies. To enable the Board 
to discharge its duties, all Directors have full
access to all relevant information and to the
advice and services of the Company
Secretary. The appointment and removal of
the Company Secretary is a matter for the
Board as a whole. In addition, the Directors
may take independent professional advice in
the furtherance of their duties, if necessary,
at the Company's expense.
A nominations committee is not considered
appropriate because of the small size of the
Board but all appointments or potential
appointments are fully discussed by all Board
members. All new Directors and senior
employees are given a comprehensive
introduction to the Group's business,
including meetings with senior management.
Any training necessary will be provided at 
the Company's expense.
The Directors voluntarily submit themselves
to re-election at the first opportunity after
their appointment and then to re-election at
intervals of three years.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consisted of the 
Non-Executive Chairman, Stephen Dean 
and the Non-Executive Director, Lyndon
Chapman. Meetings are also attended by
relevant Executive Directors. The Audit
Committee meets at least twice a year and
considers the appointment and fees of the
external auditors and discusses the scope of
the audit and its findings. The Committee is
also responsible for monitoring compliance
with accounting and legal requirements and
for reviewing the annual and interim financial
statements prior to their submission for
approval by the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprised 
the Non-Executive Chairman, Stephen Dean,
Non-Executive Director Lyndon Chapman 
and Finance Director, Helen Grimes. 
The Committee's role is to consider and
approve the remuneration and benefits 
of the Executive Directors. In framing 
the Company's remuneration policy, 
the Remuneration Committee has given 
full consideration to Section B of The
Combined Code. The Report on Directors'
Remuneration is set out on pages 13 to 14. Envesta plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 11
Internal Control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of
internal control operating throughout the Group and 
for reviewing its effectiveness.
No system of internal control can provide absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The
Group's system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure, to achieve business objectives
and to provide the board with reasonable assurance that
potential problems will normally be prevented or will be
detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
The Company has had procedures in place throughout
the year and up to the date of approval of this annual
report, which accord with the internal Control Guidance
for Directors on the Combined Code published in
September 1999.
The Board has delegated the detailed design of the
system of internal control to the Executive Directors.
The control framework and key procedures are as
follows:
  The Executive Directors meet regularly together, to
consider Group financial performance, business
development and Group management issues. The
Directors and Officers of the Group's subsidiary
comprise Executives with appropriate functional
responsibilities. Directors of the operating subsidiary
meet regularly to manage that business.
  The Group Board establishes corporate strategy and
Group business objectives. Operations management
must integrate such objectives into divisional business
strategies for presentation to the Group Board with
supporting financial objectives.
  There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the
Group. Major business risks and their financial
implications are appraised by the responsible
Executives and endorsed by operations management.
This is an integral part of the strategic planning
process. The appropriateness of controls is considered
by the Executives, having regard to cost/benefit,
materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising. 
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are
considered at each Board meeting and are formally
reviewed and approved by the Group Board annually.
  Divisional budgets, containing financial and operating
targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance
indicators are reviewed by the Executive Directors 
and must support divisional business strategies. 
The consolidated Group budget is approved by the
Group Board.
  Reports on Group and divisional performances are
regularly provided to Directors and discussed at Group
Board meetings. Performance against both budgets
and objectives together with management of business
risks are reviewed with operations management, as are
forecasts and material sensitivities. The Board regularly
receives reports from key Executives and functional
heads covering areas such as forecasts, business
development, strategic planning, legal and corporate
matters.
  There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal 
and approval of investment expenditure and asset
disposals. Post investment performance reviews 
are undertaken.
  Clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate
delegated authorities for Executives are in place
throughout the Group. 12 Envesta plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Corporate Governance continued
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high
priority. There is a regular dialogue with shareholders
including presentations after the Company's preliminary
announcement of the year end results and at the 
half year.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to
communicate with private and institutional investors 
and welcomes their participation.
Established procedures ensure the timely release of share
price sensitive information and the publication of
financial results and regulatory financial statements.
Health and Safety
A high standard of health and safety management is
promoted at all levels within the Group. The Group's
health and safety approach is supported by training
programmes for the operating businesses, Group health
and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to
promote a high level of awareness and commitment.
Statement by Directors on Compliance with
the Provisions of the Combined Code
The Board consider that they have complied with the
provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year
ended 30 June 2002 as far as practicable and appropriate
for a relatively small public company in accordance with
the recommendations on corporate governance of the
City Group for Smaller Companies.
Directors' Responsibilities for the 
Financial Statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of
the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the
profit or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing
these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
  State whether applicable accounting standards have
been followed subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
and
  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group
and to enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They are also responsible for maintaining sufficient
internal controls for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with 
the above requirements in preparing these financial
statements.
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors
consider that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts.