 36 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Corporate responsibilities
Strategy and definition
Experian is a fast growing business and financial success
is a key measure of that growth. However we don't exist
in a vacuum. By measuring ourselves against other
societal impacts and targeting ourselves to improve we
can ensure we have a sustainable business and that we
maintain and improve societies' understanding and
respect for what we do.
Since our listing as an independent company on 11
October 2006, we have undertaken a review of our
wider responsibilities, consulting relevant people within
the business and drawing on external evaluations from
analysts and commentators. As a result we have chosen
six essential responsibilities to provide the framework and
direction for our work:
We believe we have a responsibility to:
1 Use and protect data properly, respecting all the
relevant laws, helping evolve industry guidelines and
new legislation and ensuring a culture of setting and
complying with the highest standards of integrity.
2 Create social and economic benefit through our
products services and capabilities, balancing
commercial benefit with consumers' rights and needs. 
3 Inform and empower consumers and ensure that those
who interact directly with our company receive fair and
honest treatment.
4 Be a good employer to all, establishing a set of
expected behaviours and values, ensuring that
everyone working for us is treated fairly, given the
maximum opportunity to fulfil their potential and that
all our workplaces are safe and healthy.
5 Minimise as far as possible the environmental impacts
associated with our business and enable employee
participation, with a particular concentration on the
reduction of energy use and its effect on global warming.
6 Play an active part in social and economic regeneration
in our communities, be they local, national or global.
Discharging these six responsibilities effectively helps
reduce risk and presents us with opportunities. In
essence, we think that taking proper account of social
issues makes us a better business in the long term. We
are committed to dialogue, transparency and the need
for good quality benchmarks and indicators of our non-
financial performance. 
Management and accountability
This year we appointed a Group Company Secretary,
Charles Brown, and gave him overall responsibility for
Corporate Responsibility (CR), ensuring that it features
regularly on the Board agenda. The Board's first action
has been to approve an outline strategy in early 2007,
based on the six responsibilities above.
We have appointed a Head of
Global CR, reporting to Charles
Brown, to direct and co-ordinate
efforts across the Group. Experian is
structured into regional businesses, each
of which has appointed a CR management
champion. These champions will meet regularly
chaired by the Company Secretary and led by the Head
of Global CR, to give strategic input and direction. They
will consider risks and opportunities and ways in which
we can embed social considerations into our everyday
decision-making processes. There is also a small network
of CR co-ordinators who are the principal contacts for
the Head of Global CR to share information about
relevant risks and opportunities, develop initiatives and
report performance.
Experian is currently listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
We have produced a comprehensive CR Report online
(accessible via the Company website and at
www.experiancrreport.com). The following sections
present a summary from that document.
Performance during 2007
Data management- using and protecting data properly:
Experian has established a lead position as the trusted
steward of sensitive consumer data. We have an
obligation to protect and secure data from wrongful
access or misuse. We have dedicated Compliance and
Information Security teams who have overall
responsibility for ensuring a culture of awareness and
compliance within the business. In the past year, these
teams have improved physical security measures and our
management of digital identity and access to our
systems, as well as gaining ISO international certification.
More widely, we have undertaken a general programme
of employee education including defining a new global
policy and have taken the lead in industry-wide initiatives
regarding the safe transfer of data.
Products and services - social benefits of our services:
Experian plays an important role in maintaining a healthy
economy, and many of our core products have strong
social benefits. For example we are a leading player in
reducing fraud, in helping lenders and individuals avoid
over-indebtedness, reducing junk mail and ensuring those
in need are targeted to receive state aid. Activities in the
past year have included:
  Development of our predictive tools to ensure lenders
can pick up the very early signs of over-indebtedness.
  Establishing a Victims of Fraud service to support those
whose identities have been transgressed.
  Launching tools to directly help consumers better
understand how their behaviour affects their 
credit rating. 
Introduction | Business review |  Governance |  Financial statements
6
We have chosen six
essential responsibilities
to provide the
framework and direction
for our CR programme Experian Annual Report 2007 | 37
Experian's community investment
Cash donations from Experian $729,000
Value of employee time volunteered $157,000
Value of gifts in kind $332,000
Community management costs $222,000
Total from Experian $1,440,000
Employee fundraising $212,000
GUS Trust Donations $517,000
Total value including funding 
given by others $2,169,000
Consumers - informing and empowering consumers: 
During the last year, Experian had over 25 million direct
contacts with consumers. Over half of these interactions
were providing consumers with access to their data on file,
allowing them to test, challenge or amend it where
appropriate. This type of access is a key part of data
protection legislation in many countries, and we aim to
ensure that we comply fully and wholeheartedly. 
However, we aim to go much further in our work with
consumers. We take very seriously the need to educate
people more widely, particularly about the credit granting
process and how to make it work for them. We play a
leadership role in national organisations with a remit for
promoting financial education, especially with the young.
Training the trainers is a special focus. In the US we have
led a national campaign to ensure personal finance skills
are taught in schools and this year gave considerable input
to a specific programme of financial education in Texas
high schools.
The Experian businesses that market directly to consumers
have extended the frequency and reach of customer
satisfaction surveys and have monitored and improved their
online accessibility.
Employment practice - being a good employer: Experian
employs more than 13,000 people in 36 countries around
the world. Recruiting, motivating and retaining the best
colleagues is an essential part of our competitive edge. To
ensure a fair and professional workplace we have a range
of employment policies covering issues such as equal
opportunities, business ethics, bullying and harassment
and whistle-blowing. This year we initiated a brand
development programme, which includes the development
of a consistent system of values and behaviours for
employees. We invest heavily in training and development,
this year delivering more online and computer based
training than in any previous point in our history.
Environmental impact - minimising our carbon footprint
and waste: Our most significant environmental impact is
the use of energy in our buildings, and the emissions of
CO2 that come from it. While the amount of energy we
use relative to our size may be low, we believe that all
companies have a responsibility to play their part in
meeting the challenge of climate change. We have
measured our carbon footprint as approximately 64,000
tonnes in 2007 (the final, verified figure can be found in
our online report: www.experiancrreport.com). Our
emissions from buildings have fallen this year as our
Nottingham sites, which house more than 2,000 people,
arranged to purchase all their electricity needs from
renewable sources and our four major sites in the US
replaced inefficient heat pumps and chillers, installed
energy saving light bulbs, reduced night time temperature
controls and controlled lighting with motion detectors
and timers. 
Community - social and economic regeneration: We have
a strong history of community involvement on both sides
of the Atlantic. In the last year Experian invested $1.44m
into community programmes and charitable causes and,
with the addition of funds from the GUS Trust and the
funds raised by employees, this rose to $2.169m, with a
breakdown as shown in the chart below. These funds
enabled a huge range of opportunities for Experian's
people to make a real contribution to the life of their
local communities and often allowed the organisations
we worked with to leverage considerably more funding
from other sources.
This year saw us launch a new US-UK collaborative
project, involving seven schools from the US and UK.
Students in each school created a set of Christmas card
designs to be used by Experian, at the same time raising
funds for charity Save the Children. A spin off from the
project is an electronic pen pal scheme between the
schools, which we have facilitated via a secure 
online environment.
We also define our  community' more widely. As a
responsible member of the business and finance
community, we have sponsored the UK National Debtline
and the Citizens Advice service and the Money Advice
service in Scotland. In the US we support Call for Action
and the National Consumer's League of Identity 
Theft Hotline.