 60 Governance   Chairman's introduction
The Board changes are the start of a new era for the Group.  
At the forefront of your Board's thinking was ensuring the continuity 
of the leadership team and maximising the likelihood of preserving  
Experian's unique and successful culture. 
Governance: 
Chairman's introduction
  We are also announcing the 
appointment of Kerry Williams as 
Chief Operating Officer and as an 
executive director, to succeed Chris 
Callero who will retire with effect 
from the conclusion of the AGM  
on 16 July 2014.
These are important changes for the 
Company and the Group. The Board 
focused extremely hard on securing the 
best possible succession plan, to ensure 
Experian's continuing success. 
Appointment of the Chairman
I have had the privilege of leading this 
unique and successful Group for many 
years. Since Experian became an 
independently quoted company in 2006, 
I have enjoyed being part of one of the 
most stable leadership teams in the FTSE 
100 and, together with Don Robert, having 
contributed to the conditions in which 
Experian has successfully grown from its 
Nottingham roots to become the global 
leader in data and analytics. 
The Board acknowledges the UK Corporate 
Governance Code's recommendation 
that a chief executive should not go on to 
become chairman of the same company; 
and that if, exceptionally, a board decides 
that a chief executive should become 
chairman, it should consult major 
shareholders in advance and set out  
its reasons to shareholders.
Before concluding that the appointment 
was in Experian's best interests, and that 
it would promote Experian's success 
for the shareholders as a whole, the 
Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee and the Board carefully 
considered what the Group required from 
its Chairman, and specifically how to 
best ensure the Group's success over the 
longer term. The key criteria for the role 
included a Chairman with:
  a global business perspective  
and outlook, with experience of  
a number of our markets; 
  experience in relevant market sectors 
and knowledge of the challenges 
these sectors face; 
  compatibility with the new Chief 
Executive Officer, to ensure good 
working relationships and the 
continuation of Experian's team-
based culture; 
  a good fit with the Board as a whole; 
  excellent credentials across the 
equity market; and 
  an impeccable overall reputation.
In addition, the Board believed that the 
new Chairman would need to: be fully 
committed to the role; able to understand 
and preserve Experian's unique and 
successful culture; provide the new 
Chief Executive Officer with advice and 
guidance on a highly complex and rapidly 
changing business; manage the Board; 
and, importantly, be able to provide 
broad leadership and oversight of our 
strategic direction.
The Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee considered 
external and internal candidates. Having 
undertaken a rigorous process led 
by Sir Alan Rudge, Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director, it 
concluded that Don Robert was the 
outstanding candidate for this position 
and recommended his appointment 
to the Board. The Board unanimously 
approved his appointment and believes 
that Experian will derive substantial 
benefit from ensuring the continuity of the 
senior leadership team into the medium 
term, while maximising the likelihood of 
preserving our culture. The appointment 
process undertaken is described in the 
Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee report. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
encourages chairmen to personally report 
on how the principles relating to the 
Board's role and effectiveness have been 
applied. This year, I would like to reflect 
from a governance perspective on the 
Board changes that we have announced 
since January, and how they contribute to 
the principle that the Company be headed 
by an effective Board. 
  In January, we announced that Don 
Robert, the current Chief Executive 
Officer, would be appointed as 
Chairman in my place, and that Brian 
Cassin, the current Chief Financial 
Officer, would be appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer. These changes will 
take effect from the conclusion of the 
AGM on 16 July 2014. 
  We also announced in January that 
George Rose would be appointed 
as Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director. This change 
will also take place with effect from 
the conclusion of the AGM  
on 16 July 2014. 
  In April, we announced the 
appointment of Lloyd Pitchford 
as Chief Financial Officer 
from September 2014, and the 
appointment of a new non- 
executive director, Jan Babiak, 
with effect from 29 April 2014.
Sir John Peace
Chairman
P71 61
 
Governance   Chairman's introduction
Don has been with Experian for 12 years, 
the last nine of which have been as Chief 
Executive Officer. He has an outstanding 
record of performance and of increasing 
shareholder value and is highly regarded 
by all our stakeholders. Your Board firmly 
believes that he has the right balance 
of competencies and the necessary 
experience to provide Experian with the 
overall leadership it requires through the 
next phase of its growth and development.
Appointment of Chief  
Executive Officer
The Board also appointed Brian Cassin as 
Chief Executive Officer. He was an adviser 
to Experian for more than eight years and 
has been our Chief Financial Officer for 
two years.
Brian brings a wealth of experience to the 
Chief Executive role, both from his time 
at Experian and at Greenhill & Co, where 
he was a Partner and Managing Director 
with 20 years' experience in the corporate 
finance advisory sector, including being 
a leading adviser to GUS plc ahead 
of Experian's demerger. As such, he 
possesses strong knowledge of and  
insight into the business.
As Chief Financial Officer, Brian joined 
the Experian Board in April 2012, and 
his operational performance and 
contribution to the Board have been 
exemplary. He has shown a broad range 
of operational competencies, including 
clear leadership and strong, decisive 
management skills, coupled with deep 
commercial acumen and a firm grasp of 
strategic objectives. The Board strongly 
believes that these competencies make 
him an exceptional choice for the role of 
Chief Executive Officer.
Appointments of Chief  
Financial Officer and Chief 
Operating Officer
The Board has also appointed Lloyd 
Pitchford as Chief Financial Officer, and 
he will join in September 2014. Lloyd 
has been Chief Financial Officer of 
Intertek Group plc since April 2010 and, 
coming to us from a FTSE 100 company, 
will bring deep financial knowledge 
and considerable experience, built up 
through an impressive career working 
in complex, multinational organisations. 
During his time at Intertek, he has held 
a wide portfolio of responsibilities, 
helping to deliver significant growth  
in financial performance.
We are also announcing that our Chief 
Operating Officer, Chris Callero, has 
decided to retire from the Board, and will 
be succeeded by Kerry Williams, who 
will take up his new position and join the 
Board as an executive director following 
Chris's retirement at the AGM in July 
2014. Kerry most recently assumed 
the post of Deputy Chief Operating 
Officer for Experian, and has immense 
experience and deep knowledge of 
Experian's businesses across the world, 
which will be of significant benefit to the 
Group in the future.
Independence of the Board
The Board clearly recognises 
shareholders' need and desire for 
appropriate independence on the Board 
as a whole. It therefore appointed George 
Rose as Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director with effect from Sir 
Alan Rudge's retirement on 16 July 2014. 
George was appointed to the Board in 
September 2012.
In addition, the Company appointed Jan 
Babiak as an independent non-executive 
director, to strengthen further what is 
already a very capable and experienced 
Board. Experian will, as a result, continue 
to have a Board with a substantial 
majority of independent directors, who 
will ensure the Company maintains 
strong governance in the future. 
Conclusion
Having carried out a very thorough 
process which considered a wide range 
of alternatives, the Board unanimously 
concluded that appointing Don Robert 
as Chairman and Brian Cassin as 
Chief Executive Officer, together with 
the other Board appointments, was in 
the Company's best interests. These 
appointments will ensure that the 
Board has the appropriate balance of 
skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge, to enable it to discharge its 
duties and responsibilities effectively and 
to best position Experian to sustain its 
success into the long term. 
UK Corporate  
Governance Code
It is the Board's view that the 
Company has complied with the 
principles and provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 
( Code') throughout the year ended  
31 March 2014. 
In January 2014, the Board 
announced the appointment of 
the current Chief Executive Officer 
as Chairman with effect from July 
2014. The Code (A.3.1) states that a 
chairman should on appointment be 
deemed to be independent and that 
a chief executive should not go on to 
be chairman of the same company. 
However, the Code goes on to state:
 If exceptionally a board 
decides that a chief executive 
should become chairman, the 
board should consult major 
shareholders in advance and 
should set out its reasons to 
shareholders at the time of the 
appointment and in the next 
annual report. 
The Board confirms that, in 
line with the Code, extensive 
consultations were held with 
shareholders in advance of the 
appointment and that it has 
set out the reasons behind the 
appointment to shareholders both 
at the time of the appointment  
and in this annual report.
The Corporate governance report, 
together with the Report on 
directors' remuneration, explains 
how the Company has applied 
the Code's main principles and 
complied with its provisions during 
the year. The information required 
by Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule ( DTR') 7.2 is set out in this 
introduction and the Corporate 
governance report, other than that 
required by DTR 7.2.6R, which is  
set out in the Directors' report.
P78