 Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December
2009
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance
sheet date. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences
are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of subsidiary undertakings and representative offices which are denominated in foreign currencies are
translated into Dollars at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Income and cash flow statements are translated at average rates of
exchange prevailing during the year. Exchange differences resulting from the translation at closing rates of net investments in subsidiary
undertakings and of foreign currency representative offices, together with differences between earnings for the year translated at average
and closing rates, are dealt with in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The functional currency of the Company and presentational currency of the Group is United States Dollars and accordingly the financial
statements have been prepared in this currency.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated
using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Fixtures, fittings and equipment - four years
Investments
In its separate financial statements, the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provision for impairment.
Leases
Rent paid on operating leases is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Share based payments
The share option programme allows Directors and employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period
during which the Directors and employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured
using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised
as an expense is adjusted based on time based conditions to reflect the actual number of share options that will vest. The actual number of
share options expected to vest is not adjusted for market vesting conditions. Where the terms and conditions of options are modified before
they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately before and after the modification, is also charged to the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the remaining vesting period. Further details of the treatment of share based
payments can be found in note 19.
Segmental disclosures
The Group's operations are entirely focused on oil and gas exploration activities in the Falkland Islands with its corporate head office in the
UK. Based on risks and returns the Directors consider that there is only one business segment that they use to assess the Group's
performance and allocate resources being oil and gas exploration activities in the Falkland Islands and therefore the segmental disclosures
for the Group have already been given in these financial statements.
Financial instruments
The Group's financial assets consist of current account or short term deposits at variable interest rates, loans and other receivables. Any
interest earned is accrued and classified as interest. Trade and other receivables are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at
amortised cost.
The Group's financial liabilities consist of convertible loan notes, trade and other payables. All are non derivative assets. The trade and other
payables are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost. Convertible loan notes are treated as described below.
Convertible loan notes
In accordance with IAS 32, the Group has classified the convertible debt in issue as a compound financial instrument. Accordingly, the
Group presents the liability and equity component separately on the balance sheet. The classification of the liability and equity component is
not reversed as a result of a change in the likelihood that the conversion option will be exercised. No gain or loss arises from initially
recognising the components of the instrument separately. Interest on the debt element of the loan is accreted over the term of the loan at
the effective interest rate. In the event of conversion the equity component relating to the conversion rights and the warrants issued will be
transferred to share capital and share premium (for any amount over the nominal value of each share).
The assessment of the equity and debt components of the convertible instrument was made on inception and was not revisited as a result
of the change in functional currency.
Derivatives
Derivatives are recognised initially, and subsequently re-measured, at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income.
Derivatives may be embedded in other instruments. Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives and measured at fair value,
with changes in value being recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, when:
  their terms would meet the definition of a stand alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract;
  their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract; and
  the combined contract is not measured at fair value with changes in value being recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Conversion features of convertible debt issued by the group which do not meet the definition of an equity instrument are accounted for as
derivatives over the company's own equity and are recognised initially, and subsequently remeasured, at fair value. Changes in value are
recorded in the statement of comprehensive income.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical
experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In the
future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Recoverability of intangible assets
Under the full cost based method of accounting, the Group capitalises exploration and appraisal costs until it is capable of determining
whether its exploration efforts were successful and, if they were successful, whether any impairment charges may be required to bring the
net book values of assets in line with their economic values.
This assessment involves judgement as to the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be determined
as well as future revenues and costs pertaining to the utilisation of the licence rights to which such capitalised costs relate and the discount
rate to be applied to such future revenues and costs in order to determine a recoverable value.
Impairment review
The carrying amounts of the Group's E&A assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and, if there is any indication that an asset may
be impaired, its recoverable amount is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of its net selling price and its value in use.
Impairment assessments are carried out by the Directors if there has been an event or a change in circumstance that would indicate that
the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.
While conducting an impairment review of its assets, the Group exercises judgement in making assumptions about future oil and gas
prices, oil and gas reserves/resources and future development and production costs. By their nature, impairment reviews include significant
estimates regarding future financial resources and commercial and technical feasibility to enable the successful realisation of the exploration
expenditure. Changes in the estimates used can result in significant charges to the statement of comprehensive income as any impairment
loss arising from the review is charged to the statement of comprehensive income whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its
recoverable amount.
Convertible loan notes
The fair value of the liability component on initial recognition is the present value of the stream of future cash flows (including both coupon
payments and redemption) discounted at the market rate of interest that would have been applied to an instrument of comparable credit
quality with substantially the same cash flows, on the same terms, but without the conversion option. The applicable rate of interest is
estimated at 15%.
Share based payments
Directors best estimate of the valuations underlying the share based payments are based on assumptions made by Directors using
updated models previously prepared by external consultants. Those assumptions are described in the Notes to the accounts and include,
among others, the dividend growth rate, expected volatility, expected life of the options and number of options expected to vest. See note
19 for further details of these assumptions.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December
2009
25