 Governance
Corporate governance and the UK Corporate  
Governance Code
The Directors support high standards of corporate governance 
and comply, in so far as is practicable given the Company's size 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the Code ). 
The Board considers that the Company has been in compliance 
with the Code throughout the period except for the following 
Code Provisions:
Provision of the Corporate 
Governance Code Company Position
B.7.2 The Board should set out 
to shareholders in the papers 
accompanying a resolution to the 
report to elect a non-executive 
Director why they believe an individual 
should be elected.
Whilst the background and 
qualification of the appointees is 
disclosed in the report to Directors, 
and thereby their implicit suitability, no 
formal explanation has been provided 
with the accompanying resolution.
B.7.2 The chairman should confirm 
to shareholders when proposing 
re-election that, following formal 
performance evaluation, the 
individual's performance continues 
to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to the role.
Whilst the Chairman did not offer 
such confirmation at the general 
meeting of shareholders the Company 
and Chairman confirm that this is 
the case.
Notwithstanding the above disclosure, it is worth noting that 
as an AIM quoted company, the Company is not required to 
comply with the Code. 
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the 
system of internal controls which has been in place throughout 
2013. The effectiveness of the Group's system of internal 
control is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee on behalf 
of the Board, as referred to in the Audit Committee Report.
The workings of the Board and its committees
The Board
At 31 December 2013 the Board was comprised of four 
non-executive Directors, one of whom is the Chairman, and 
three executive Directors. The Board is responsible to the 
shareholders for the proper management of the Group. It 
meets regularly, as set down in the table on page 42, to review 
trading performance, set and monitor strategy, examine 
acquisition and divestment possibilities, approve major capital 
expenditure projects and other significant financing matters 
and report to shareholders. The Board delegates authority to 
the management for the day-to-day business under a set of 
delegated authorities which cover: routine operational matters, 
purchasing procedures, financial authority limits, contract 
approval procedures and the hiring of full time and temporary 
staff and consultants. Matters reserved for the Board are 
communicated in advance of formal meetings. All of the 
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
AGM after their appointment to the Board and to re-election 
by shareholders at least once every three years. In addition, as 
required under the Code, any Non-Executive Director who has 
served on the Board for more than nine years will be subject to 
annual re-election.
At the year end the Board comprised three Independent 
Non-Executive Directors: Tim Read (Senior Independent 
Director), Hanne Harlem and Roger Witts. Mr Witts was an 
Executive Director of the Company until May 2009 which is 
within the five year period set down by the Code as a measure 
of independence. The Board has, however, evaluated Mr Witts' 
judgement, character and performance since that date, and 
continues to be satisfied that he acts as an Independent 
Director and in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders and so continue to deem him to be independent.
Corporate governance report
 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 The Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive 
Directors have other third party commitments including 
directorships of other companies as disclosed in the Directors' 
biographies. The Company is satisfied that these associated 
commitments have no measurable impact on their ability to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively.
New Directors receive induction on their appointment to the 
Board which covers the activities of the Group and its key 
business and financial risks, the terms of reference of the 
Board, and its committees, and the latest financial 
information about the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for 
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that 
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In 
addition, the Company Secretary will ensure that the Directors 
receive appropriate training as necessary. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the 
Board as a whole. All Directors are supplied with information 
in a timely manner in a form, and of a quality, appropriate to 
enable them to discharge their duties.
Board performance
In accordance with Code provisions, the Company has a formal 
process of annual performance evaluation for the Board, its 
committees and individual Directors. The performance 
evaluation of the Board and the Board committees was 
primarily based upon answers to a detailed questionnaire. The 
areas covered in the questionnaire included the effectiveness 
of the Board and its committees, performance against 
objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and 
corporate governance matters.
Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member  
of the Board, the Chairman then reported the results of the 
process to the Board. The Board and its committees are 
satisfied that they are operating effectively. 
A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees 
and individual Directors will continue to be conducted annually 
and the method for such review will continue to be reviewed 
by the Board in order to optimise the process.
The performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed by  
the Remuneration Committee and the bonuses payable to  
the Executive Directors are linked directly to the results of  
these reviews.
The Company has Directors' and officers' liability insurance 
in place.
The following is a table of Board and Committee meetings during the year:
Quarterly Board Special Purpose Board
2
 Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee
Meetings held during 2013 4 5 4 2 3
Number of meetings attended by
Executive Directors
Graham D Stewart 4 4 Not applicable 2 Not applicable
Jonathan R Cooper 
1
2 2 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Helge A Hammer 4 4 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Iain M Lanaghan 
1
2 - Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Non-executive Directors
John W S Bentley 4 2 4 2 3
Timothy P Read 4 1 3 2 3
Roger C Witts 4 1 4 2 3
Hanne Harlem 4 - 4 2 3
1 Jonathan Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013 and Iain Lanaghan stepped down from the Board on 27 June 2013.
2 These meetings typically involve the specific approval of transactions or matters that have the prior general approval of the full Board.
Corporate governance report
(continued)
Governance
42 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
During 2013, certain Directors who were not committee 
members attended meetings of the Audit Committee and 
Remuneration Committee by invitation. These details have not 
been included in the table. Where a Director is unable to 
attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, such 
Director is invited to review the relevant papers for the 
meetings and provide his or her comments to the Board or the 
Board committees in advance of such meetings.
The following committees deal with specified aspects of the 
Group's affairs.
Audit Committee
The make-up and workings of the Audit Committee are set 
out in the Audit Committee report on page 60.
Remuneration Committee
The make-up and workings of the Remuneration Committee, 
together with details of the Directors' remuneration, interest in 
options, together with information on service contracts, are set 
out in the Report on Directors' Remuneration. No Director is 
involved in the decision of his or her own remuneration.
 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises John Bentley 
(committee chairman), Tim Read, Hanne Harlem, Roger Witts 
and Graham Stewart. The Nominations Committee, which has 
Terms of Reference agreed by the Board, will meet as and 
when required to:
  consider, at the request of the Board, the making of any 
appointment or reappointment, to the Board; and
  provide advice and recommendations to the Board on any 
such appointment or re-appointment.
The Nominations Committee does use the services of 
independent consultants from time to time to assist in the 
identification of candidates for Non-Executive Directors and/or 
to benchmark candidates already identified by the committee 
against possible candidates identified by consultants. The 
committee recommended the appointment of Jonathan 
Cooper as the Chief Financial Officer following an executive 
search programme undertaken by third party consultants, 
Preng & Associates, which has no other connection with  
the Group.
The Company's policy is to attract and develop a highly 
qualified and diverse workforce, to ensure that all selection 
decisions are based on merit and that all recruitment activities 
are fair and non-discriminatory. We continue to focus on 
encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, 
recognising that Directors and managers with diverse skills 
sets, capabilities and experience gained from different 
backgrounds enhance the Group. Notwithstanding that the 
resources sector has historically been male dominated, at 
31 December 2013, 35% percent of the Group's employees 
were female.
 
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the 
Board and is undertaken through press releases, general 
presentations at the time of the release of the annual and 
interim results and face-to-face meetings. The Group issues its 
results promptly to individual shareholders and also publishes 
the same on the Company's website (www.faroe-petroleum.
com). Regular updates to record news in relation to the 
Company and also the status of exploration programmes are 
also included on the website.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop 
an understanding of the views and concerns of major 
shareholders there is regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders, including meetings after the announcement 
of the Company's annual and interim results. In addition, 
the Chairman and the senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director ( SID') have held face-to-face meetings or spoken 
on the telephone with a number of the Company's major 
shareholders on a range of matters including strategy, 
executive remuneration, long term incentive schemes and 
corporate governance issues. The SID is available to attend 
meetings with major shareholders without the Executive 
Directors present, if requested by shareholders. The Board uses 
the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Signed on behalf of the Board by:
John Bentley
Non-executive Chairman
24 March 2014
 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43