  
fastjet Plc and its subsidiary undertakings  16 
Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2012 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
  
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. The Listing Rules of 
the Financial Services Authority incorporate the UK Corporate Governance Code, which sets out the 
principles of Good Governance, and the Code of Best Practice for listed companies. Whilst the 
Company is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company's 
corporate governance procedures take due regard of the principles of Good Governance set out in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the size and the stage of development of the Company. 
 
Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors currently comprises four executive Directors (one of whom is Chairman) and 
one Non-Executive Director. The Directors are of the opinion that the Board comprises a suitable 
balance and that the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code have been 
implemented to an appropriate level.  The Board maintains regular contact with its advisers and public 
relations consultants in order to ensure that the Board develops an understanding of the views of 
major shareholders about the Company. 
 
Board meetings 
The Board meets regularly throughout the year in relation to normal operational matters. The Board is 
responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the Company's strategy, financial activities and 
operating performance.   
 
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company's solicitors and the Company Secretary 
ensures necessary information is supplied to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to 
discharge their duties effectively, and all Directors have access to independent professional advice, at 
the Company's expense, as and when required.   
 
Board committees 
The Board has established the following committees, each of which has its own terms of reference: 
 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises Robert Burnham (Chairman), Edward Winter and Geoffrey White and 
determines the terms of engagement of fastjet's auditors and, in consultation with the auditors, the 
scope of the audit. The Audit Committee will receive and review reports from management and the 
Company's auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts and the accounting and internal 
control systems in use throughout the Group. The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to the 
Company's auditors. 
 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises Robert Burnham (Chairman), David Lenigas and Edward 
Winter and reviews the scale and structure of the Executive Directors' and senior employees' 
remuneration and the terms of their service or employment contracts, including share option schemes 
and other bonus arrangements. The remuneration and terms and conditions of the Non-Executive 
Directors are set by the entire Board.  Edward Winter does not participate in discussions on his own 
remuneration. 
 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee comprises Robert Burnham (Chairman), Edward Winter and Geoffrey 
White and is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, 
the size, structure and composition of the Board and for identifying candidates to fill vacancies on the 
Board, as and when they arise. The Nomination Committee will make appropriate recommendations to 
the Board on such matters. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
fastjet Plc and its subsidiary undertakings  17 
Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2012 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
  
 
Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors of the Company and senior managers 
including the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, Chief Commercial Officer, 
Operations Director and General Manager - Africa. The Committee's primary responsibilities are to 
review the operating performance of each Group company, manage the Group's strategic planning 
process and corporate acquisitions and disposal programme, monitor and approve capital expenditure 
and contracts entered into by the Group and to manage the Group's HR policies. 
 
Safety Committee 
The Safety Committee currently comprises Robert Burnham (Chairman), Edward Winter and Robert 
Bishton (Operations Director), although all Board members are invited to attend meetings. The Safety 
Committee is responsible for monitoring the governance of safety and security management within the 
airline, ensuring that safety risks and security threats are adequately monitored and that sufficient 
resources exist to ensure that management and reporting within the Company is maintained at a 
suitable level. 
 
Internal controls  
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's systems of internal controls and for 
reviewing their effectiveness. These internal controls are designed to safeguard the assets of the 
Company and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external 
publication. Whilst they are aware that no system can provide absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss, in light of increased activity and further development of the Company, continuing 
reviews of internal controls will be undertaken to ensure that they are adequate and effective.  In 
particular, they have invested time and effort in Tanzania. 
 
Risk management 
The Board considers risk assessment to be important in achieving its strategic objectives. There is a 
process of evaluation of performance targets through regular reviews by senior management to 
forecasts.  Project milestones and timelines are regularly reviewed. 
 
Risks and uncertainties 
The principal risks facing the Company are set out below. Risk assessment and evaluation is an 
essential part of the Group's planning and an important aspect of the Group's internal control system. 
 
Financial Risk 
Please refer to Note 24 to these financial statements. 
 
Going concern 
Please refer to The Principle Accounting Policies. 
 
Business Risk 
The Board regularly evaluates and reviews all business risks when reviewing project timelines. The 
types of risks reviewed also include: 
 
  Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental requirements 
  Regulatory and compliance obligations 
   Legal risks relating to contracts, licenses and agreements 
   Insurance risks 
   Political risks deemed where appropriate 
 
Future Operations 
Please refer to the Chief Executives Review for more detail on future operations. 
 
 
   
fastjet Plc and its subsidiary undertakings  18 
Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2012 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
  
Insurance 
The Group maintains insurance in respect of its Directors and Officers against liabilities in relation to 
the Company. 
 
Treasury policy 
The Group finances its operations through equity and holds its cash as a liquid resource to fund the 
obligations of the Group. Decisions regarding the management of these assets are approved by the 
Board. 
 
Securities trading 
The Board has adopted a Share Dealing Code that applies to Directors, senior management and any 
employee who is in possession of  inside information'.  All such persons are prohibited from trading in 
the Company's securities if they are in possession of  inside information'.  Subject to this condition and 
trading prohibitions applying to certain periods, trading can occur provided the relevant individual has 
received the appropriate prescribed clearance. 
 
Relations with shareholders 
The Board is committed to providing effective communication with the shareholders of the Company.  
Significant developments are disseminated through stock exchange announcements and regular 
updates of the Company website.  The Board views the AGM as a forum for communication between 
the Company and its shareholders and encourages their participation in its agenda. 
    
fastjet Plc and its subsidiary undertakings 19 
Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2012  
 
 
 
Statement of Directors' responsibilities in respect 
of the annual report and the financial statements 
 
 
 
  
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
  
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for 
each financial year. As required by the AIM Rules of the London Stock Exchange they are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
  
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to: 
 
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
  for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
  for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Group and the parent company will continue in business. 
  
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the parent company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
  
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 