 38
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements
Foreword by the Chairman of
the Audit Committee
During the year under review, the Committee
welcomed Vanda Murray to the Committee
following her appointment to the Board on 11
January 2012. David Buttfield stepped down
from the Committee on the same date as he
had completed nine years tenure with the
Company and was no longer considered to be
independent under the Code. I would like to
thank David for his very valuable contribution
to the Committee over the period.
The work and responsibilities of the
Committee are set out over the following
pages.
Composition and governance
The Audit Committee operates under formal
written terms of reference which govern its
role and responsibilities.
The Committee is comprised of the three
independent non-executive directors and is
chaired by John Sheldrick. Vanda Murray was
appointed to the Committee on 11 January
2012 at the same time David Buttfield stepped
down as a Committee member. Neither the
Board Chairman, nor the executive directors
are members of the Committee although they
can attend by invitation. John Sheldrick, on
taking on the role of Chairman of the
Committee, met the requirement of having
had recent and relevant financial experience,
having been Group Finance Director of
Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 until his
retirement in 2009. The Group Company
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee,
which also has access to the services of the
Group Finance Director, Senior Internal
Auditor, Group Business Risk Manager and
external professional advisors. The
Committee can request the attendance at
meetings of any director, external auditor or
Group employee as considered appropriate.
The Committee meets with the external
auditors without the presence of management
at two of its meetings during the year.
Responsibilities and
activities during the year
The Audit Committee fulfils the requirements
of the Code and its work covers the following:
monitor the integrity of the Annual
Report, the Half Yearly Financial Report
and the Preliminary Results;
review analyst presentations at the half
and full year;
review of internal financial controls and
the internal control management
systems;
monitor and review the effectiveness and
performance of the internal audit function
including the approval of the internal
control programme and review visits and
meet with the Senior Internal Auditor at
least once a year;
approve the Charter for Internal Audit;
review the risk management systems and
reports which are outlined in more detail
in the Business Review on page 21;
review procedures for detecting fraud;
review the Whistleblowing Policy annually; 
review the whistleblowing report semi
annually;
review the summary of Group insurance
policies and levels of deductibles;
make recommendations to the Board in
relation to the appointment or re-
appointment and remuneration of the
external auditors and their terms of
engagement, including approval of the
audit plan;
ensure that the external auditors are
independent, objective and effective;
annually review the policy on non-audit
work carried out by the external auditor;
this policy takes into account external
guidance relating to the provision of non-
audit services; 
review the schedule of non-audit work
carried out by the external auditor in the
year;
review the financial statements of the UK
Fenner Pension Scheme;
review the terms of reference for the
Audit Committee on an annual basis; and
review the Group's treasury policies.
Financial reporting
The Audit Committee reviewed a wide range
of financial reporting and related matters in
respect of the Company's half year and
annual results statements and its Annual
Report prior to their consideration by the
Board. In particular, this included a review of
the accounting on business combinations, the
significant judgmental areas of the
impairment of goodwill, the provisions on
inventory, warranty and taxation and the main
assumptions underlying retirement benefit
obligations. Reports highlighting key
accounting matters and significant
judgements were also received from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC ) in
respect of the year end statements and
discussed by the Committee. Analysis to
support the going concern statement given on
page 26 was also reviewed.
The Committee also reviewed management's
half year and full year results presentations
for analysts and shareholders.
Following consideration of the matters
presented to it and discussion with both
management and PwC, the Committee was
satisfied that the significant judgements
made were justified and that the financial
reporting disclosures made were appropriate.
Risk management and
internal control
Management of risks is essential to the
delivery of the Group's performance and
therefore the Group has a continuous process
for identifying, evaluating and managing risk,
with the process itself being subject to
regular review and refinement. Risks are
reported to the Audit Committee twice a year
and the Committee has received a
presentation from an independent consultant,
Maxaim, who are helping to run the Group
Risk Workshop programme in conjunction
with the Group Business Risk Manager. The
Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of
the Group's system of internal control and
assures itself on the rigorousness of the
internal control process. The internal control
review covers operational, financial and
compliance controls. The Committee receives
a financial internal control report at least
twice a year from the Senior Internal Auditor. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the
Audit Committee 39
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors' Report Governance
Corporate Governance continued
Based upon the internal control and risk
reports, the Board determines the nature and
extent of the significant risks it is willing to
take in achieving strategic objectives and the
Board believes it does maintain sound risk
management and internal control systems.
Whistleblowing
To support the Group's Whistleblowing Policy,
Fenner operates a Group-wide international
hotline. Run by an external and independent
third party, the hotline facilitates
arrangements whereby employees can make
(on an anonymous basis if preferred)
confidential disclosures about suspected
impropriety and wrongdoing. Any matters so
reported are investigated and escalated to the
Audit Committee as appropriate. A report
summarising all disclosures made during the
period is submitted to the Audit Committee
twice a year. 
External Auditors
Independence
The Committee monitored the external
auditors' compliance with applicable ethical
guidance and, in addition, considered the
independence and the objectivity of the
external auditors taking due account of all
appropriate guidelines. 
The Committee received and reviewed written
confirmation from the external auditors on all
relationships that, in their judgement, may
bear on their independence. The external
auditors have also confirmed that they
consider themselves independent within the
meaning of UK regulatory and professional
requirements.
As a general principle, the external auditors
are excluded from consultancy work and
cannot be engaged by Fenner for other non-
audit work unless there are compelling
reasons to do so. The Group's detailed policy
on the non-audit services which can be
provided by the external auditors is set out in
the table below. During the year, non-audit
services amounting to  162,000 were
incurred. This amount comprised tax
compliance ( 15,000), tax advisory ( 50,000)
and assurance services ( 97,000), principally
relating to half year agreed upon procedures
and a non-statutory audit of special purpose
financial statements.
Effectiveness and reappointment
The Committee evaluated the performance of
the external auditors during the year and
concluded that this was satisfactory. The
performance of PwC will continue to be
reviewed annually. 
Following the review, the Committee
concluded it was appropriate to recommend
to the Board PwC's appointment as the
Company's external auditors. The risk of PwC
leaving the market is considered remote since
they are one of the top four global accounting
firms.
Internal Audit
The Committee reviewed the results of audits
undertaken by internal audit and considered
the adequacy of management's response to
any matters raised, including the
implementation of any recommendations
made. The Committee considered and
approved the 2012 internal audit programme.
The effectiveness of internal audit was
formally reviewed, taking into account the
views of directors and senior management on
such matters as objectivity, proficiency,
resourcing and audit strategy and planning.
No non-routine matters of concern were
drawn to the Committee's attention by either
the external or internal auditors during the
year. Matters of material concern are
immediately drawn to the Committee's
attention if and when they arise.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee
7 November 2012
A detailed review of Risk Management is
set out on page 21
Prohibited non-audit services Permitted non-audit services, subject to
approval by the Committee
audit their own work;
make management decisions for the
Company;
act as advocate for the Company;
authorise, execute or consummate a
transaction on behalf of the Company;
determine which recommendation of the
audit firm should be implemented by the
Company;
internal audit services, other than
specific projects determined by the
Committee;
provision of IT consultancy;
legal services;
HR and recruitment consultancy; and
underwriting services.
taxation services;
specific projects on internal audit where
the scope and management is
determined by the Committee;
staff secondments where management
is clearly directing and controlling the
secondee and on the basis that the
secondee cannot make management
decisions;
litigation support services, providing it
does not include significant advocacy
from the audit partner; and
corporate financial services involving
advisory, acquisitions and disposals and
due diligence.
Policy on non-audit services by the external auditors