 17
20310-04  26/05/2011 Proof 8
Our Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
 
This report sets out to describe how the Group has applied the 
principles of good corporate governance as defined in section 1 
of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (the Combined 
Code ). The Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk.
The Board of Directors
The Group is led and controlled by an experienced Board as set 
out on page 9. The Board currently comprises the non-executive 
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and 
three other non-executive Directors.
Mr R. Handover, the non-executive Chairman, and Mr P . Redhead, 
Mr D. Adams (appointed in September 2010) and Mrs A. Palmer-
Baunack (appointed in July 2010), who are all non-executive 
Directors, have no links with the Group and are considered 
independent. Mr A. Moulds resigned as non-executive Director 
on 31 December 2010. Mr P . Redhead is the appointed senior 
independent Director.
Newly appointed Directors are offered for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting following their appointment. Once 
elected, Directors are offered for re-election at least once every 
three years in accordance with the Company's Articles of 
Association.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and may take independent professional 
advice at the Company's expense in the furtherance of their 
duties. All Directors receive appropriate training relevant to their 
experience and position within the Company.
The Board meets at least six times each year and gives full 
consideration to strategic and operational issues. It has a 
schedule of matters set aside for its direction including the 
approval of interim and full year financial statements and annual 
budgets. Profit and working capital forecasts and monthly 
management accounts are also regularly reviewed by the Board.
During the period the Board undertook an evaluation of its 
performance and the performance of its individual Directors and 
the separate committees. The evaluation comprised a series of 
meetings and the completion of several effectiveness evaluation 
checklists. The conclusions were the subject of a discussion by 
the Board. The performance of the Chairman was appraised 
by the non-executive Directors, led by the senior independent 
Director. This meeting took place without the Chairman being 
present.
Relations with shareholders
The executive Directors meet with institutional shareholders 
twice yearly following publication of the Group's interim and final 
results, and at other times by arrangement. The Company's 
stockbroker prepares a feedback document following these 
meetings to help the Directors gauge their effectiveness.
The non-executive Directors receive analysts' and brokers' 
briefings and surveys of shareholder opinion to ensure that they 
are made aware of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders are welcomed to the Annual General Meeting 
and are encouraged to ask questions and to meet the Directors 
individually following the meeting. All Directors are expected to 
attend this meeting.
The Annual Report is sent to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the Annual General Meeting.
The share capital structure of the Company is given in the 
Director's Report on page 9.
Accountability and Audit
Financial reporting
A review of the performance of the Group is contained within the 
Operating and Financial Review.
Internal Financial Control
The Group's monitoring of its internal control systems is 
ongoing. The internal controls in place aim at safeguarding 
the Group's assets and ensuring its operations are carried out 
in an effective manner. They encompass controls to deal with 
significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other 
risks which may otherwise prevent achievement of the Group's 
objectives.
The key elements of the Group's internal financial controls, all of 
which have been fully operational during the period, are set out 
below:
    a clear, decentralised organisation structure with well 
defined lines of responsibility with, at it's top tier, the Board 
and executive Directors;
    a detailed procedure for regular review and reporting of risks 
to executive Directors and, via them, to the Board;
    an Internal Control Committee, including an executive 
Director, which monitors Group risk management processes 
and reports to the Board; Alexon Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2011
www.alexongroup.co.uk 
Stock code:  AXN
18
20310-04  27/05/2011 Proof 9
    key tasks are performed and reviewed by experienced and 
suitably qualified senior managers within the Group;
    a formal annual budgetary process, which includes regular 
review with senior management, followed by Board 
approval, documents the short and medium term plans of 
the Group. Monthly management accounts monitor the 
actual performance against the annual budget and highlight 
significant variances. Forecasts of current and future year 
performance are regularly updated and reviewed;
    all capital investment proposals are authorised at Board 
level prior to their commencement.
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
the Group's systems of internal financial control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness on an annual basis. Such systems are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives.
The Group has in place an appropriate Funding and Treasury 
policy which has been set out in the Directors' Report. This 
policy has been agreed by the Board in response to the 
perceived risks facing the Group.
The internal control regime is enhanced by the use of an internal 
whistle blowing reporting function which allows employees to 
report issues and concerns in confidence.
Internal audit function
The Group has an internal audit function which is wholly focused 
on its retail outlets. Systematic audits are carried out on a regular 
basis to ensure compliance with the Group's procedures relating 
to stock management and cash control. Audits are planned such 
that all standalone stores and concessions staffed by non-Group 
employees are audited at least twice each year. No head office 
internal audit function exists.
Auditors' independence
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , the Company's auditors, have 
confirmed in writing to the Company that they are independent 
of the Group. The Audit Committee reviews fees paid to 
the auditors for non-audit services and approves planned 
expenditure in excess of  5,000.
Audit Committee
Mr A. Moulds held the position of Chairman of the Audit 
Committee until his resignation from the Board on 31 December 
2010, at which point his position was taken up by Mr D. Adams. 
Mr P . Redhead is also a member of the committee. Meetings of 
the Audit Committee are normally held not less than three times 
a year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
    monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group, approving formal announcements relating to the 
Group's financial performance, and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgements contained therein;
    reviewing the Group's internal financial controls and internal 
control and risk management systems;
    monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness the Group's 
internal audit function;
    making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to 
shareholders for their approval in general meetings, in 
relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of 
the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and 
terms of engagement of the external auditor;
    reviewing and monitoring the external auditor's 
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of 
the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK 
professional and regulatory requirements; and
    developing and implementing policy on the engagement of 
the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Group's Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director may 
join the meetings of the committee by invitation of its Chairman.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain 
outside legal or other independent professional advice at the 
Company's expense.
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff may, 
in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting or other matters. No such concerns 
have been raised in the period.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for the process of 
appointing new Directors to the Board and for their re-election, and 
for ensuring that they receive a full, formal and tailored induction 
following their appointment. The Committee is chaired by Mr 
R. Handover. The other non-executive Directors serving on the 
committee are Mr P . Redhead and Mr A. Moulds until his resignation 
on 31 December 2010 and subsequently Mr D. Adams. Meetings of 
the Nominations Committee are held not less than twice each year.
Corporate Governance Statement
continued 19
20310-04  26/05/2011 Proof 8
Our Governance
During the period the Committee oversaw the appointment 
of two non-executive Directors. The committee engaged the 
services of a specialist search and recruitment company to 
compile a shortlist of candidates based on an initial brief. The 
candidates were subsequently interviewed by the Committee 
prior to the preferred candidates being recommended to the 
Board. The Committee also considered the proposed re-election 
of Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of all sub-committees of the Board are 
available for inspection at the offices of the Company during 
normal working hours and will be available for inspection at the 
place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior 
to and during the meeting.
Going concern
The Group and Company's financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis. Whilst the Directors consider 
that adequate committed facilities are in place for at least the 
next year, some of these will expire in July 2012 and potentially 
earlier on completion of certain property disposals. The Directors 
are therefore actively seeking longer term financing options to 
facilitate continued investment in the turnaround programme and 
a stable capital base for the medium term.
Compliance statement
In the opinion of the Directors the Group has complied with the 
provisions of Section 1 of the Code throughout the accounting 
period.
Members' attendance during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2011
The attendances by individual Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the period are given below:
 Board Nominations Remuneration Audit 
 Meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held 10 4 3 2
Executive Directors
J. McNally 10 n/a n/a 1
J. Boyle 10 n/a n/a 2
Non-executive Directors
R. Handover 8 4 n/a 1
P. Redhead 8 4 3 2
A. Moulds 6 3 3 2
A. Palmer-Baunack 3 n/a n/a n/a
D. Adams 3     1
Where Directors are not members of the relevant committees this is indicated by  n/a'.
All Directors attend Board and Committee meetings unless other commitments prevent them from doing so.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting.