 23
First Technology 2003
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high
standards of Corporate Governance. This statement explains how the
Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code and complies with the Code of Best
Practice.
The Board
During the year the Board was chaired by Dr Fred Westlake as Chairman,
with Jeff Wood as Chief Operating Officer, Oliver Burns as Group Finance
Director and Kevin Breen as Chief Executive of City Technology. John
Shepherd joined the Group on 10th March 2003 as Chief Executive
Officer (CEO). 
There are three independent non-executive directors: Patrick Burgess, 
John Salmon and Ralph R Whitney Jr. On the basis of criteria currently
being applied, Bruce Atkinson is not considered by the Board to be an
independent non-executive director. All the non-executive directors make 
a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board and its
committees, and no one individual or group dominates the Board's
decision-making process. Patrick Burgess is recognised as the senior
independent non-executive director to whom any concerns can be
conveyed. 
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every
three years. The names of those directors standing for re-election to the
Board this year are set out in the Notice of the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting on pages 57 and 58. Biographical details of all directors
are set out on page 18.
The Board's focus is on the formulation of business strategy and policy,
and on control. The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters which
are required to be brought to it for decision, review and follow-up, thus
ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate
strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues. In addition,
detailed reports are provided to the Board by each of the executive
directors on a monthly basis to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board, and
the CEO for the running of the business and implementation of Board
strategy and policy. The Board meets formally eight times a year with other
meetings as necessary. All directors have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary, and there is a procedure whereby directors,
wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent
professional advice and training at the Company's expense.
Principal Board Committees
The Board has established several Committees, each with specific terms of
reference. The principal ones are:
 Audit Committee 
Comprises the three independent non-executive directors. It met three
times during the year. The Group Finance Director and external audit
partner attended all meetings. The duties of the Audit Committee
include the review of the half year and annual financial statements
before submission to the Board. It also considers the scope and results
of the external audit and its cost effectiveness, and the independence
and objectivity of the external auditors. The Committee annually
reviews and reports to the Board on whether an Internal Audit
department is required having regard to the size and nature of the
Group. 
  Risk Committee 
The role of the Committee is to review and monitor the systems of
internal control, health & safety, insurance and risk management. It
comprises the three independent non-executive directors. The non-
executive directors in turn liaise with the members of the executive
team to ensure they have a full understanding of the issues. The
Committee's role is to promote and to embed the culture of risk
management into existing management processes. The non-executive
directors review all Group risks and assess the adequacy of insurance
cover accordingly. The Committee meets at least twice a year.
 Remuneration Committee
Comprises all non-executive directors and, from 10th March 2003, the
Chairman. The CEO attends the Remuneration Committee meetings.
The Chairman and CEO are not present when their own
remuneration is being considered. The Committee meets at least three
times a year and is responsible for reviewing and recommending all
elements of executive directors' remuneration.
Full details of directors' remuneration and a statement of the
Company's policy on executive directors' remuneration are set out in
the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30.
 Nominations Committee
During the year a separate Nominations Committee was established.
The role of the Committee is to identify, evaluate and recommend
candidates for appointment and reappointment to the Board. The
Committee is also responsible for reviewing and evaluating the
performance of the executive directors. The Committee comprises the
Chairman and the three independent non-executive directors.
Patrick Burgess is Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration
Committees and Dr Fred Westlake chairs the Nominations Committee.
The Committee Chairmen report to the Board after each meeting. The
remits of each Committee are reconsidered annually by the relevant
Committee and the Board.
Corporate Governance Report
First Tech a/c 2003 a/w  7/24/03  10:48 AM  Page 23 24
First Technology 2003
Relations with shareholders
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private
investors. Two-way communication with institutional investors, analysts
and private investors is actively pursued, and a series of presentations and
meetings are held throughout the year and following the announcement of
interim and preliminary results. All announcements can be accessed from
the Company's website as soon as practical after they have been released to
the London Stock Exchange, to ensure information is available to all
shareholders.
This year's Annual General Meeting will be held on the 18th September
2003 at which time the Chairmen of the principal Board committees will
be available to answer shareholders' questions. The Company will continue
its practice of proposing individual resolutions, including a separate
resolution relating to the directors' report and financial statements. This
year, the directors will also propose a separate resolution relating to the
remuneration report. Proxy votes will be displayed at the Annual General
Meeting after each vote on a show of hands.
Statement of directors' responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit of the
Group for that year.
After making due enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: 
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the
Group maintains a system of internal control to provide it with reasonable
assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal financial
control and compliance with laws and regulations. There are inherent
limitations in any system of internal control and, accordingly, even the
most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the internal control system that operated throughout
the year covered by the financial statements are described under the
following headings:
Control environment
The Board has in place an organisational structure with clearly defined and
understood lines of responsibility and delegation of authority from the
Board to operating units. A formal manual of Group Policies and
Procedures is in place and is reviewed and updated (via the Risk
Committee) at least annually.
Identification and evaluation of business risks and control procedures
The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major business
risks facing the company and developing the appropriate policies to
manage those risks. The Company operates a business risk management
process to enable the Board to identify and evaluate key business risks. The
Board continues to formulate policies to address those risks. 
Financial control and information systems
The Group operates a planning and budgeting system with an annual
budget approved by the Board. There is a financial reporting system which
compares results with the budget, the previous year and an 18 month
forecast on a monthly basis so as to identify any variances from approved
plans. Financial reviews of the major operating units are undertaken
regularly. Revised forecasts for the year are formally prepared twice a year.
In addition, there are defined procedures for seeking and obtaining
approval for major contracts, capital expenditure and organisational
changes, as well as regular reviews of the major business risks.
Monitoring
The Board has delegated to executive management implementation of the
system of internal control procedures. Executive management is responsible
for a system of self certification to identify, track and report on all key
business risks. The operation of internal controls is monitored by the Risk
Committee, which reports to the Board. Internal reviews take place to
ensure that the group policies and procedures are adhered to and to review
the effectiveness of controls in place. The results of these reviews are
reported to the Risk Committee. 
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the Group has been in place for the year under review and up to
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and has been
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
In accordance with the Smith Report, the Board has also reviewed the
requirement for a formal internal audit function. This review concluded
that there was no requirement for a formal internal audit function.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal
control during the year.
Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout the year ended 30th April 2003, the Company was in
compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority,
except that the Remuneration Committee did not consist exclusively of
independent non-executives as required by provision B2.2 of the Code.
Bruce Atkinson, who is not considered by the Board to be independent, is
a member of the Remuneration Committee in view of his knowledge of
the Group's senior operational management.
Corporate Governance Report
First Tech a/c 2003 a/w  7/24/03  10:48 AM  Page 24