 14
FLYING BRANDS LIMITED  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE 53 WEEKS ENDED 2 JANUARY 2004
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2004.
INCORPORATION
The Company is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
DIRECTORS  RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are required by the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year, and of the Group profit or loss for that
period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  State whether applicable United Kingdom accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements;
  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. They are
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud,
error and non compliance with law and regulations.
Although an overseas company, the Directors have sought to ensure that the financial statements of the Company and the Group comply
materially with the disclosure requirements of the UK Companies Act 1985 and the listing requirements for a UK company.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Group are unchanged from last year being volume mail order and collectables retailing.
BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
A commentary of the Group's progress during the year and its future prospects are set out in the Chairman's and Chief Executive's
Statements on pages 3 to 10 and the Financial Review on pages 11 to 12.
FLYING BRANDS HOLDINGS (UK) PLC
During 1996 the Group created a twinned share structure to enable UK based shareholders to receive a UK dividend and thereby avoid being
double taxed on the Jersey dividend. Consequently all shareholders hold in addition to their shares in Flying Brands Limited an equivalent
number of shares in Flying Brands Holdings (UK) PLC.
Although the results for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2004 of Flying Brands Holdings (UK) PLC are included in the consolidated financial
statements of Flying Brands Limited, in accordance with UK Company Law a separate set of financial statements for Flying Brands Holdings
(UK) PLC will be sent to shareholders.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The Group profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to  5.58m (2002:  4.50m). 
An interim dividend of 2.53p was paid in 2003 (2002: 2.45p).
The Directors recommend a final cash dividend for the year of 5.22p per ordinary share (2002: 5.05p).
Subject to the approval of members at the Annual General Meeting the dividend will be paid on 16 April 2004 to shareholders on the
register on 19 March 2004.
The retained profit for the financial year amounted to  2.32m (2002:  1.56m).
DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Company at the end of the year are shown on page 13. Mr T Dunningham served as a Director of the Company from
the beginning of the year until 30th April 2003. Mr TK Boden, Mr PI Fraser and Mr THS Trotter retire by rotation, and, being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election. The service contracts of all directors are noted in the remuneration committee report on pages 40 to 43.
Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 13.
DIRECTORS' AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  15
FLYING BRANDS LIMITED  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE 53 WEEKS ENDED 2 JANUARY 2004
DIRECTORS' INTERESTS
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 2 January 2004, together with their interests at 27 December 2002 are shown
in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 40 to 43.
SHARE CAPITAL
Details of the share capital of the Company and the movements during the year, are set out in Note 22 to the accounts.
The Directors' interests in share options are set out within the Remuneration Committee Report on page 43.
Apart from service contracts none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries was a party during the financial year.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS
It is Group policy, in respect of all of its suppliers, to settle the terms of payment when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are
made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms. 
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company did not make any political or charitable donations during the year.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
No value is attributed in the Balance Sheet to the Group's brand names or its extensive databases of customers.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 14 February 2004, other than the Directors  holdings noted above, the Company was aware of the following interests in 3% or more
of its issued share capital:
Sussex Research Limited: 3,615,999 (13.6%)
Mr T Dunningham: 1,145,000 (4.3%)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 14 April 2004 and notice of that meeting is set out on page 44.
A Special Resolution to renew the authority for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares, last renewed on 24 April 2003, will
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
PURCHASE OF SHARES 
The company purchased 350,000 of it own shares having a nominal value of  3,500 for a total consideration of  496,000. This represents
1.3% of the company's issued share capital. The shares were purchased because the directors were of the opinion that the purchase of its
own shares at an average price of  1.42p per share would enhance shareholder value.
EMPLOYEES
The Company s policy is to provide equal opportunities to all present and potential employees, including, where practical, those who are disabled.
There is regular communication with staff at all levels. Staff are kept informed of performance and objectives of the Group throughout the
year through their line managers, staff meetings and the Interim and Annual published results.
SECRETARY
The Secretary of the Company is Mr D C Harbord ACA who had been Secretary for the entire year.
AUDITORS
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers, Channel Islands, as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
CORPORATE GOVERNACE
Flying Brands Limited supports the Combined Code of Best Practice issued by the Turnbull Committee on Corporate Governance and
incorporated into the Listing Rules and the Principles of Best Practice which makes a number of specific recommendations relating to the
composition and procedures of the Board and the Directors' responsibilities in relation to systems of internal control.
DIRECTORS' AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 16
FLYING BRANDS LIMITED  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE 53 WEEKS ENDED 2 JANUARY 2004
The Group complies with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, with two exceptions. Firstly, for part of the year the work of a
Nomination Committee was undertaken by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee as no separate constitution existed. Secondly on
1 September 2003 the membership of the Audit Committee was reduced to two members, being the two Independent 
Non-Executive Directors as opposed to the three members required by the Combined Code.
On 26 February 2003, a separate Nominations Committee was formed, comprising the four Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board meets at least six times a year and currently comprises three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors. Two of the 
Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent. Mr LM Sanderson is considered to be the Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director. The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and retains full and effective control over the
Group's activities. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. In addition, a formal procedure is in place by
which any Director may take independent professional advice, if necessary at the Company's expense.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, a third of Directors are subject to re-election each year. In practice this means that all Directors
are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Members of the Audit Committee as at 2 January 2004, and who served during the year, were as follows:
T H S Trotter, Chairman 
L M Sanderson
P I Fraser (Resigned 1st September 2003)
A R Fryer (Resigned 1st September 2003)
The Audit Committee meets at least 4 times a year, with the meetings being attended by the Group's external auditors. Mr THS Trotter
replaced Mr LM Sanderson as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 September 2003.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee, comprising the two Independent Non-Executive Directors, meets at least three times a year. The Report of the
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 40 to 43.
SHAREHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP
The group maintains a close relationship with its major shareholders through regular contact. 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The annual report is designed to present a balanced and clear view of the Group's activities and prospects.
STATEMENT ON GOING CONCERN
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirm that they believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Directors are responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
A detailed assessment of the risks and internal controls of the group is updated and circulated to the Board every three months. The
assessment is reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee on an ongoing basis and accords with the Turnbull Committee guidance on
internal control issued in September 1999. In addition to its review of the scope and results of the audit and the activities of the external
auditors, the Audit Committee terms of reference include the overseeing of internal controls.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that the size of the Group does not justify it at present.
However, the Board will continue to review this decision annually.
By order of the Board
D C Harbord Registered office
Secretary Retreat Farm
St Lawrence
3 March 2004 Jersey CI
DIRECTORS' AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED