 Corporate governance 
Fonebak Annual Report and Accounts 30
th
 June 2007                                                                                                               18 
Principles of good governance 
  
As a Company quoted on AIM, a market operated by the London Stock Exchange, we are 
not required to comply with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
(the Combined Code ).   However, the Group has complied with those provisions of the 
Combined Code that the Board considers to be relevant for the Group as set out below, 
and will enhance its procedures during 2007-2008 in the areas that it considers most 
appropriate. The appointment of a further independent Non-Executive Director, Jeff Hewitt, 
as Chairman on 1
st
 November 2007 is considered by the Board to be an important 
development in re-enforcing good corporate governance practices for the future. 
 
The Board 
 
The specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include: setting Group strategy and 
approving an annual budget and medium-term projections; reviewing operational and 
financial performances; approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital 
expenditure; reviewing the Group's systems of financial control; reviewing the 
environmental, health and safety performance of the Group; approving appointments to 
the Board and the Company Secretary;  approving policies proposed by the Remuneration 
Committee relating to Director's remuneration and the severance of Director's contracts; 
and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.  The Board intends 
to hold a minimum of 10 Board meetings per annum and will meet more often as required. 
 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive 
will be re-defined in 2007-2008 following Jeff Hewitt's appointment in order to establish 
clearly the respective roles and enhance corporate governance standards.  
 
Directors and Directors' independence 
 
At the date of this Annual Report the Board comprises the Chairman, an independent Non-
Executive Director and two Executive Directors.  On 1
st
 November 2007, Jeff Hewitt joins 
the Board as a second independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman. The names of 
the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 12-13.  David 
Holland was the senior independent Director during the year.  
 
The Directors are given access to independent professional advice, at the Group's expense, 
when the Directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities. 
 
Professional development 
 
Following the appointment of Jeff Hewitt new procedures will be introduced to advise 
Directors of their duties and obligations as a Director of a listed Company and to ensure 
they are regularly updated by the executive Directors of the Group's business and other 
matters relevant to their appointment. 
 
The Company Secretary 
 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all 
governance matters. The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary.  The company's Articles of Association and the matters reserved to the Board 
for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a 
matter for the full Board. 
 
Information 
 
Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in 
preparation for Board meetings.  These papers are supplemented by information 
specifically requested by the Directors from time to time. The Non-Executive Directors 
receive monthly management accounts and regular management reports and information  Corporate governance 
Fonebak Annual Report and Accounts 30
th
 June 2007                                                                                                               19 
that enables them to scrutinise the Group's and management's performance against 
agreed objectives.  
 
Relations with shareholders  
 
The Annual General Meeting will be attended by all Directors, and shareholders are invited 
to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal 
proceedings have ended. 
 
The Group maintains a corporate website (www.fonebak.com), which has recently been 
updated to comply with AIM Rules and contains a range of information of interest to 
institutional and private investors. The Group has regular discussions with institutional 
shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance. These include meetings 
following the announcement of the annual results with the Group's largest institutional 
shareholders on an individual basis.  In addition, the Group responds to individual ad hoc 
requests for discussion from shareholders. 
 
Internal control 
 
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard 
shareholders' investments and the Group's assets. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss. A new 
Group Chief Accountant is being appointed on 1
st
 November 2007 and this role includes 
responsibility for internal audit. 
 
Fonebak is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in accordance with all 
laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject and intends to formulate a 
policy document setting out the procedures available to employees to report potential 
violations of the commitments. 
 
Board committees 
 
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director 
during the year was as follows: 
 
 Board Meeting Remuneration 
Committee 
Audit Committee 
GS Shields         13 (15) 2 2 
DA Holland         12 (15) 2 2 
G Stokes           9 (9) - - 
S A Shields         13 (15) - - 
DW Kelham  
AR Crocker  
         5 (5) 
       11 (11) 
- 
- 
- 
2 
 
Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of board meetings in the year in which the individual 
was a Board member.  
 
Nomination Committee 
 
A Nomination Committee was set up on 31
st
 August 2007. 
 
Remuneration Committee 
 
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Gordon Shields and David 
Holland.   Gordon Shields acts as Chairman of the Committee.  The Remuneration 
Committee met twice (2006 - twice) during the year to 30 June 2007. 
 
The Committee's principal responsibilities are: 
 
  Setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approving individual 
remuneration packages for executive directors, including terms and conditions of 
employment and any changes to the packages;  and   Corporate governance 
Fonebak Annual Report and Accounts 30
th
 June 2007                                                                                                               20 
  Approving the rules, and launch, of any executive share, share option or cash based 
incentive scheme and the grant, award, allocation or issue of share, share options or 
payments under such scheme. 
 
The Audit Committee 
 
During the year the Audit Committee comprised David Holland and Gordon Shields.  David 
Holland acted as Chairman of the Committee. The Audit Committee met twice (2006 - 5 
times) during the year to 30 June 2007. 
 
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Group's 
financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Group's performance.  
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit 
process and making recommendations to the Board for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including 
reviewing non-audit services and fees.  It will also keep under review the Group's systems 
of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the 
Group. The Committee meets with executive directors and management, as well as 
privately with the external auditors. 
 
In 2007 the following responsibilities of the Audit Committee were discharged by the 
Board as a whole: 
 
  Reviewing the Group's financial statements for the year ended 30
th
 June 2007; 
  Reviewing and approving the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Group's 
auditors; 
  Reviewing the external auditor's plan and audit of the Group's financial statements, 
which included scope of work, key risks to the financial statements, confirmation of 
auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement for the audit; 
  Reviewing the performance of the external auditors. 
 
 
Auditors' independence and objectivity 
 
The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the external auditors so as to 
review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration 
relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that  these are not impaired by the 
provision of permissible non-audit services. 
 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other 
services are set out in note 5 to the financial statements. 
 
Going concern 
 
After making enquiries and following the renegotiation of the Group's borrowing facilities, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 