 22 fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004 
corporate governance
Code of best practice 
As a company quoted on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock
Exchange, the company is not required to comply with the combined code.
However, the company has complied with those provisions of the code that the
board consider are relevant for a company the size of fountains plc. The board
believes in providing a framework for establishing good corporate governance
and accountability and would identify the following company procedures
supporting this approach.
Board of directors
The board comprises a full time chairman, two other executive and two
independent non executive directors. 
The current composition and operation of the board is adequate to ensure a
balance of power and authority, the company's non executive directors
representing an influential and independent element on the board.   
Non executive directors serve for a three year term. By agreement a further three
year term may be served. One of the non executive directors is nominated as
lead. The non executive directors meet with operating board members and other
senior management periodically.  These meetings take place through formal
presentations to the fountains plc board, senior management team meetings
and visits by the non executive directors to operational offices and working sites.
The non executive directors meet shareholders from time to time.
The board meets on at least nine occasions during the year and has a schedule
of matters reserved for its approval which only the board may change. It is
responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy and
authorising significant financial and legal transactions. It reviews and approves
the operational plans of the trading businesses and monitors progress towards
achievement of those plans.
The company does not have a nomination committee as any new board
appointments are managed by the board rather than delegated to a committee.  
The audit and remuneration committees comprise the non-executive directors
and the chairman. J Sinclair, the lead non executive director, is Chairman of the
audit committee. M H Holmes is Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Relations with shareholders
The chairman and finance director hold regular meetings with
major shareholders to discuss the company's strategy and
financial performance. The company also has a proactive
approach to keeping these and other shareholders informed of
developments in the business through the corporate magazine,
website and direct contact. 
Annual general meeting
All directors attend the annual general meeting and are available
to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
Internal control
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the group's
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The
internal control system has been established to meet the specific
needs of the group and the particular business risks to which it
is exposed. However, by its nature any system of internal control
can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The combined code includes a requirement that directors review
the effectiveness of the group's system of internal controls. This
requirement extends the directors review to cover all controls,
including operational, compliance and risk management as well 
as financial.
The board defines and maintains procedures as part of a
continuous review of the group's internal controls. These
procedures have been designed to assist achievement of
business objectives, safeguard the group's assets against
unauthorised use or disposition, ensure compliance with
regulation and maintain proper accounting records and 
reliable financial information for use within the business 
or for publication. 
22 fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004  fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004         23 fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004         23
Key procedures that have been established are:-
Control environment
The directors have put in place an organisational structure which
provides clear reporting lines and authority levels.
Risk management
Operational management have a clear responsibility for
identifying risks facing the business and for putting in place
procedures for these to be mitigated and monitored. Risks are
formally assessed during the business planning and annual
budgeting processes which are monitored by the board.
Financial control procedures
The group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
The annual group budget, which defines the structure, size and
expenditure levels of the business, is approved by the board.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and any
significant variances are examined by management and remedial
action taken.
The group has in place control procedures including
authorisation limits for transactions, procedures to ensure
complete and accurate accounting, reliability of data processed
and the control of assets. Substantial capital expenditure
projects require board approval.
Monitoring processes
A number of processes are in place whereby control is
monitored. These include the exercise of authority by the board
of directors, the monthly reporting process which includes
review of business issues and risks, financial results and
working capital, the status of key contracts, resource allocation,
health and safety issues and regular senior management
meetings. The audit committee is also involved in the
monitoring process and its agenda includes the review of
business and risk assessments undertaken as well as interim
and final results.
fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004         23
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the
group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing financial statements.
J Sinclair 
Lead Non Executive Director
22 November 2004 24 fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004 
statement of directors' responsibilities
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and group and of the group's profit or loss for that year. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements 
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business
The directors recognise that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the UK
Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the board
D Y Eadie
Company Secretary
22 November 2004 fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004         25 fountains plc annual report & accounts 2004         25
independent auditors' report
We have audited the financial statements on pages 26 to 50.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act
1985.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the company's members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the directors' report
and, as described on page 24, the financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
standards.  Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing
Practices Board and by our profession's ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.  We also report to
you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with
the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the information
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and
transactions with the company is not disclosed.
We read the other information accompanying the annual report
and consider whether it is consistent with those statements. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
financial statements. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
22 November 2004
8 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8BB 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the
Auditing Practices Board.  An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  It
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.  In
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the company's affairs as at 30 September 2004 and of its profit for the year 
then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985.
Independent auditors' report to the members of fountains plc