 FRENCH CONNECTION GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Company is required by the Listing
Rules issued by the Financial Services
Authority to set out how it has applied
the Principles of Good Corporate
Governance and the Code of Best
Practice (the Combined Code ). This
report, in two parts, sets out how the
Company has applied the principles 
and the extent of our compliance with
the detailed provisions contained in 
the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance published in July 2003.
Part one: Application of the
principles Operational culture
The Group operates under the detailed
and entrepreneurial guidance of
Stephen Marks (the founder of the
business), the executive Directors 
and a broad range of operational
managers. The cultural focus of the
business is on the design, production
and sale of fashionable products in 
a highly demanding and fast-moving
environment. All managers and staff 
are expected to be intimately familiar
with the operations they are involved
with, to take responsibility for them, 
to monitor them daily and to act to
improve business performance promptly
and effectively. This culture is led by the
executive Board members who act in 
the same way taking counsel among
themselves and with others, including
external advisers, as necessary.
The Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors at the date of 
this report comprises three executive
Directors and one non-executive
Director. Details of their employment
terms and remuneration are set out 
in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
The Board is chaired by Stephen Marks,
Chief Executive, founder of the business
and a significant shareholder. David
Rockberger is the senior non-executive
Director, has served on the Board for
five years, has a background in law 
and is currently Director of Legal 
and Business Affairs at The Music 
Sales Group, a leading international
music publisher. Neil Williams is the
Operations Director and has worked in
the business for fifteen years following
a training in finance and accounting.
Roy Naismith joined the Board six years
ago as Finance Director and previously
held senior finance positions at
Starbucks Coffee Company and Capital
Radio PLC. Due to the size of the Board
there are no standing committees and
the full Board considers matters such
as the report of the auditors and
nominations for new Board members.
There have been no new appointments
to the Board during the year. 
The Board met nine times during the 
year to consider the development of 
the business and all of the Directors
attended every meeting. An agenda 
with supporting information is
distributed well in advance of each
meeting, the detailed nature of which
reflects the management approach. 
The Board reserves to itself certain 
key matters to approve or monitor,
including the Group's strategic plans,
annual operating budget, major capital
expenditure, treasury policies, financial
performance and external financial
reporting. The Board delegates
responsibility for the day-to-day
operation of the business to the
executive Directors and recognises 
its responsibility for ensuring that the
Company operates within a framework
of prudent and effective controls, to set
the Company's strategic aims and to
ensure that the necessary resources 
are in place.
The Board recognises that the Board is 
of such a size to be unable to meet the
requirements relating to non-executive
Directors, Board sub-committees and
the division of responsibilities at the
head of the Company set out in the
Combined Code, but believes that 
the composition and breadth of
experience of the Board and the 
senior management are appropriate 
for the size, nature, status and culture 
of the Company as demonstrated by 
the business's strong track record of
success in a challenging and highly
competitive market. The Board
assesses its own performance by
reference to the financial performance
of the business compared to annual
budgets, longer-term plans, city
expectations and peer group
comparators.
Directors are subject to election by
shareholders at the first opportunity
after their appointment and one third 
of the Board is subject to re-election
annually. Any member of the Board 
may take independent professional
advice at the Company's expense. 
Communication with shareholders
Communication with shareholders,
brokers and analysts is generally
conducted through one-to-one
meetings with the executive Directors
(and the non-executive Director if
requested) for which there is an open
invitation to shareholders to arrange but
which typically occur shortly after the
announcements of results. The opinions
expressed by shareholders are passed
to the Board as necessary. 
The Annual General Meeting and the
resolutions proposed for consideration 
at the meeting are another focus of
communication with shareholders.
Discussions are held prior to the
meeting with shareholders where they
have views on the resolutions. The level
of proxy votes received is noted and
discussed by the Board and published
on the Group's website.
Internal control 
The Directors acknowledge their 
overall responsibility for the Group's
system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. A system 
of internal control cannot provide
absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss and the Group's
systems are designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to
meet business objectives. The systems
can only provide the Directors with
reasonable assurance that material
errors and irregularities are either
prevented or detected on a timely 
basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are
ongoing procedures in place for 16 FRENCH CONNECTION GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2007
identifying, evaluating and managing
significant risks faced by the Group 
and that these have been in place for 
the year under review and up to the 
date of approval of the annual report 
and accounts. The procedures have 
been reviewed by the Board and 
accord with the Turnbull Guidance 
for Directors on the Combined Code. 
The Board has reviewed the major 
risks affecting the business and the
effectiveness of the system of internal
control. The culture of the business
results in the executive Directors 
being closely involved in managing 
the business at a detailed level. 
This provides a high degree 
of direct monitoring of risks and 
control processes, conducted 
against the background of a culture 
of integrity, quality and high levels of
communication. This is supported by
reviews of daily, weekly and monthly
detailed analyses of the performance 
of the business, the key performance
indicators associated with the trading
risks facing the Company and the
detailed operational results.
The Group does not have an internal 
audit function although the Board has
considered during the year whether
there is a need for such a function,
concluding that the benefits, when
compared to the potential benefits of
deploying additional resources in other
areas, are not sufficiently clear.
Directors' remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors 
is determined by the Chairman and
ultimately approved by the Board taking
into account external market data,
conditions within the business and 
pay levels elsewhere in the Group. 
The Chairman's remuneration is 
agreed through discussion with 
the other Directors and is approved 
by the Board. 
Part two: Compliance with the
detailed code provisions 
The Combined Code recommends that
there should be a strong independent
non-executive element on the Board
with non-executive Directors comprising
at least one half of the Board and a
division of responsibility between the
Chairman and the Chief Executive.
While the membership of the 
Board does not comply with this
recommendation the Board considers
that its composition is appropriate for
the nature and culture of the Company. 
The Combined Code also recommends
the formation of audit, remuneration
and nomination committees and 
that non-executive Directors should,
from time to time, meet without the
executives or Chairman present. 
Since the Company has only one 
non-executive Director, such
committees and procedures have not
been established and the Board itself
considers issues which might otherwise
be delegated to sub-committees. 
The Board adheres to the remuneration
principles set out in the Combined Code
in establishing levels and forms of
remuneration as detailed in the
Directors' Remuneration Report. 
No appointments to the Board or
considerations of appointments to 
the Board were made during the year
and consequently there has been no
application of appointment or induction
procedures. There is no formal
procedure for the evaluation of the
performance of the Board. The Board
adheres to the accountability and audit
principles set out in the Combined 
Code except insofar as they require 
the creation of an audit committee. 
The Board has reviewed the external
auditor's independence and objectivity
and the effectiveness of the audit
process and has also adopted a policy
on the engagement of the external
auditor for the supply of non-audit
services designed to ensure their
independence is not compromised. 
The Board has reviewed the standards
expected of employees in relation 
to business ethics and also the
arrangements for staff to raise
concerns about possible improprieties
in matters of financial reporting or
other matters and is satisfied that 
they are appropriate. 
Other than described above, 
the Company complied with the
requirements of the Combined 
Code provisions throughout the
accounting period.
Going concern 
The Group has a strong balance 
sheet, continues to trade profitably and
generates a healthy positive operating
cash flow and this is reflected in the
current budgets and forecasts for the
Group. Based on this, the Directors
have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. For this reason,
the Board continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts.
By order of the Board
Roy Naismith
Company Secretary
13 March 2007
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED