 FRENCH CONNECTION GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Company is required by the Listing
Rules issued by the Financial Services
Authority to set out how it has applied the
Principles of Good Corporate Governance
and the Code of Best Practice (the
Combined Code ). This report, in two
parts, sets out how the Company has
applied the principles and the extent of 
our compliance with the detailed provisions
contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance published in 
June 2006.
Part one: 
Application of the principles
Operational culture
The Group operates under the detailed
and entrepreneurial guidance of Stephen
Marks (the founder of the business), the
executive Directors and a broad range of
operational managers. The cultural focus
of the business is on the design, production
and sale of fashionable products in a
highly demanding and fast-moving
environment. All managers and staff are
expected to be intimately familiar with the
operations they are involved with, to take
responsibility for them, to monitor them
daily and to act to improve business
performance promptly and effectively. 
This culture is led by the executive Board
members who act in the same way taking
counsel among themselves and with
others, including external advisers, 
as necessary.
The Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors at the date of this
report comprises three executive Directors
and two non-executive Directors. Details of
their employment terms and remuneration
are set out in the Directors' Remuneration
Report. The Board is chaired by Stephen
Marks, Chief Executive, founder of the
business and a significant shareholder.
Dean Murray is the senior non-executive
Director, has served on the Board for one
year, has trained as an accountant and
has had a career in clothing retail as
finance director and chief executive 
of Myriad Childrenswear Group which
operated the Adams Kidswear brand.
Claire Kent was appointed as non-
executive director in October 2008 and
was formerly a Managing Director with
Morgan Stanley, specialising in European
luxury goods retailing analysis. Neil Williams
is the Operations Director and has worked
in the business for seventeen years following
a training in finance and accounting. Roy
Naismith joined the Board eight years ago
as Finance Director and previously held
senior finance positions at Starbucks
Coffee Company and Capital Radio PLC.
David Rockberger served on the Board 
for over six years until his retirement in
October 2008. Following the appointment
of Claire Kent, the Board is forming an audit
committee and a remuneration committee.
The Board met ten times during the 
year to consider the development of the
business and all of the Directors at the
time attended every meeting except for
two meetings which David Rockberger
was unable to attend, and one which
Claire Kent was unable to attend. An
agenda with supporting information 
is distributed well in advance of each
meeting, the detailed nature of which
reflects the management approach. The
Board reserves to itself certain key matters
to approve or monitor, including the Group's
strategic plans, annual operating budget,
major capital expenditure, treasury policies,
financial performance and external financial
reporting. The Board delegates responsibility
for the day-to-day operation of the business
to the executive Directors and recognises
its responsibility for ensuring that the
Company operates within a framework of
prudent and effective controls, to set the
Company's strategic aims and to ensure
that the necessary resources are in place.
The Board recognises that the Board is 
of such a size to be unable to meet all 
the requirements relating to non-executive
Directors, Board sub-committees and the
division of responsibilities at the head of
the Company set out in the Combined
Code, but believes that the composition
and breadth of experience of the Board
and the senior management are appropriate
for the size, nature, status and culture of
the Company. The Board assesses its own
performance by reference to the financial
performance of the business compared 
to annual budgets, longer-term plans, city
expectations and peer group comparators.
Directors are subject to election by
shareholders at the first opportunity after
their appointment and one third of the
Board is subject to re-election annually.
Any member of the Board may take
independent professional advice at the
Company's expense. 
Communication with shareholders
Communication with shareholders, brokers
and analysts is generally conducted
through one-to-one meetings with the
executive Directors (and the non-executive
Directors if requested) for which there is an
open invitation to shareholders to arrange
but which typically occur shortly after the
announcements of results. The opinions
expressed by shareholders are passed 
to the Board as necessary. 
The Annual General Meeting and the
resolutions proposed for consideration 
at the meeting are another focus of
communication with shareholders.
Discussions are held prior to the meeting
with shareholders where they have views
on the resolutions. The level of proxy votes
received is noted and discussed by the
Board and published on the Group's
website.
Internal control 
The Directors acknowledge their overall
responsibility for the Group's system 
of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. A system of internal control
cannot provide absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss and the
Group's systems are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
meet business objectives. The systems
can only provide the Directors with
reasonable assurance that material errors
and irregularities are either prevented 
or detected on a timely basis and dealt
with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are 
ongoing procedures in place for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks
faced by the Group and that these have
been in place for the year under review
and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and accounts. The procedures have
been reviewed by the Board and accord
with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code. 
The Board has reviewed the major 
risks affecting the business and the FRENCH CONNECTION GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 18
effectiveness of the system of internal
control. The culture of the business results
in the executive Directors being closely
involved in managing the business at a
detailed level. This provides a high degree 
of direct monitoring of risks and control
processes, conducted against the
background of a culture of integrity, 
quality and high levels of communication.
This is supported by reviews of daily,
weekly and monthly detailed analyses of
the performance of the business, the key
performance indicators associated with 
the trading risks facing the Company 
and the detailed operational results.
The Group does not have an internal 
audit function although the Board has
considered during the year whether there
is a need for such a function, concluding
that the benefits, when compared to the
potential benefits of deploying additional
resources in other areas, are not
sufficiently clear.
Directors' remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors is
determined by the Chairman and ultimately
approved by the Board taking into account
external market data, conditions within the
business and pay levels elsewhere in the
Group. The Chairman's remuneration is
agreed through discussion with the other
Directors and is approved by the Board.
Following the appointment of a second
non-executive Director, the Board is forming
a remuneration committee which will
consider Directors' remuneration in future.
Part two: 
Compliance with the detailed 
code provisions 
The Combined Code recommends that
there should be a strong independent 
non-executive element on the Board with
non-executive Directors comprising at least
one half of the Board and a division of
responsibility between the Chairman and
the Chief Executive. While the membership
of the Board does not comply with this
recommendation the Board considers 
that its composition is appropriate for the
nature, size and culture of the Company. 
The Combined Code also recommends
the formation of audit, remuneration 
and nomination committees and that 
non-executive Directors should, from time
to time, meet without the executives or
Chairman present. The Company has
recently appointed a second non-executive
Director and is creating both an audit
committee and remuneration committee.
During the year under review, the Board
itself considered issues which might
otherwise have been delegated to 
the sub-committees. 
The Board adheres to the remuneration
principles set out in the Combined 
Code in establishing levels and forms of
remuneration as detailed in the Directors'
Remuneration Report. Due to the size of
the Board, no Nomination Committee was
convened to consider the recruitment of
the new non-executive Director although
the Board adhered to the principles set 
out in the Combined Code in relation 
to appointments. There is no formal
procedure for the evaluation of the
performance of the Board. The Board
adheres to the accountability and audit
principles set out in the Combined Code
except insofar as they require the creation
of an audit committee, although it is
intended to form an audit committee 
in due course. The Board has reviewed 
the external auditor's independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the
audit process and has also adopted a
policy on the engagement of the external
auditor for the supply of non-audit services
designed to ensure their independence 
is not compromised. The Board has
reviewed the standards expected of
employees in relation to business ethics
and also the arrangements for staff to raise
concerns about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting or other
matters and is satisfied that they are
appropriate. 
Other than described above, the Company
complied with the requirements of the
Combined Code provisions throughout 
the accounting period.
Going concern 
The Group has a strong balance sheet
with more than sufficient net funds to
finance the working capital requirements
over the cycle of a year; the minimum cash
balance during the year to 31 January 2009
was  18.0 million. In addition the Group
has a working capital facility with Barclays
bank amounting to  5.5 million. During 
the year under review the business utilised
cash, reporting an  8.3 million reduction 
in cash and cash equivalents at the end 
of the year. The Board has proposed a
reduction in the dividend and is aiming to
reduce both capital expenditure, working
capital requirements and overhead costs 
in the coming year. Based on this, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
the Board continues to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
Roy Naismith
Company Secretary
17 March 2009
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED