 Fusionex International Plc
Annual report 2013 12
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Report
As the Company is listed on AIM, it is not mandatory for the Company 
to adopt the provisions of the 2012 U.K. Corporate Governance Code. 
The  Board, however, recognises the importance of sound corporate 
governance and has adopted many best practices of the Corporate 
Governance Guidelines by QCA, an alternative corporate governance 
code, to the extent appropriate for the Company of its nature and size. 
Board of Directors and Board Committees
The Board of Directors consists of 2 Executive and 4 Non Executive 
members, which includes a Non Executive Chairman, commencing from 
10 December 2012. The respective appointments of the Board members 
provides an appropriate balance of skills and experience for the Board to 
lead the Group in the interests of all shareholders.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clear. 
The  Chairman leads the Board in board meetings and ensures the 
effectiveness of the Board. The role of the Chief Executive is to ensure that 
the Group's long term strategic and financial objectives are achieved with 
the Group's resources and in accordance to the risk level of the Group. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders by providing leadership and 
direction to the Group. The role of the Board is to set the strategic direction 
and goals of the Group within its risk and control framework. The Board 
has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision which include, but are 
not limited to, decisions on strategy and risk management, approval of 
financial budgets, major capital expenditure, material acquisitions and 
disposals, the interim and annual results and the interim and final 
dividend recommendations. The 4 Board Committees that were formed 
to assume some of the responsibilities of the Board with clearly defined 
terms of reference are the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and 
Compliance Committees.
The Board has had regular board meetings from the date of Admission to 
AIM, 18 December 2012, to the Group's financial year end on 
30  September 2013. In that period, 5 board meetings have been 
conducted by the Company. Formal agendas and reports are provided to 
the Board for the board meetings and all Directors are properly briefed 
on the matters to be discussed and deliberated. All Directors in carrying 
out their duties as members of the Board are able to obtain further advice 
and information from within the Company or from independent 
professional advisers. The Company maintains an appropriate Directors' 
and Officers' insurance policy cover in respect of any legal actions against 
the Directors.
The performance of the Board is currently assessed by the Chairman with 
respect to the various operations of the Board that include, among 
others, the appropriate skill level of the members, the conduct of board 
meetings and the decisions achieved, the guidance with regard to the 
Group's strategy and objectives, and the effectiveness of the 4 standing 
Board Committees in carrying out their responsibilities in accordance 
to the set terms of reference.
Table of board meetings and Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee meetings held by the Company for the period from the 
Admission to AIM on 18 December 2012 to the financial year end 
on 30 September 2013 and attendance of each Director:
Board meetings
Audit 
Committee
meetings
Remuneration
Committee
meetings
Executive Directors
Ivan Teh 5/5    
Yuen Choong Lai 5/5    
Non Executive 
Directors
John Croft 5/5   2/2
Robin Taylor 5/5 2/2 2/2
Calvin Chun 5/5 2/2  
Alan Lim 5/5 2/2 2/2
Board Committees
The Board has established 4 Committees with clearly defined terms 
of reference. The members of the Committees and their duties and 
responsibilities are outlined below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Calvin Chun. The other members 
of the Committee are Robin Taylor and Alan Lim. The members have 
relevant financial, regulatory and risk management experience. The 
Committee is expected to meet at least twice a year.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are detailed below:
   Ensure the proper reporting and monitoring of the financial 
performance of the Company. This includes the reviews of the annual 
and interim accounts and results announcements to be in compliance 
with the regulatory rules and procedures and approved accounting 
standards and policies before recommending the same to the Board 
for their approval.
   Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group's internal control 
and risk management system, taking into account the practicality 
of measures introduced to the extent appropriate for the Company 
of its nature and size.
   Monitor and review the effectiveness of the external audit processes 
and plans with the external auditor.
   Review and assess the independence and effectiveness of the external 
auditor and the terms of their engagements including the  other 
non audit services provided by the external auditor.
   Review and assess material transactions of the Company.
The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without 
the Executive Directors being present at least once a year. 
In the year under review, the Audit Committee met twice. The Committee 
met to deliberate on the acquisition of the Company's new head office 
and the other meeting was scheduled to coincide with the 
announcement of the interim results of the Group in May 2013.  Fusionex International Plc
Annual report 2013 13
REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Robin Taylor, with its other 
members comprising John Croft and Alan Lim. The Committee is 
expected to meet at least twice in a full year and for the period from 
18 December 2012 to 30 September 2013. The Committee met twice 
to discuss remuneration best practices and policies for the Company. 
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining the 
Group's policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors, including 
pension rights and compensation payments.
The full details of the work and remuneration policy of the Committee 
is set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Nomination Committee
Alan Lim is the chairman of the Nomination Committee, with John Croft 
and Yuen Choong Lai as the other members of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the selection and appointment of 
Directors and the regular review of the structure, size and composition of 
the Board in relation to the requisite skills, knowledge and experience of 
the Board.
Compliance Committee
The Compliance Committee has the primary responsibility to ensure 
compliance with the AIM Rules, in particular concerning disclosure of 
information required under the AIM Rules. The Committee will function 
closely with the Board to ensure that the Company's Nominated Adviser 
(NOMAD) is provided with the information required by the NOMAD 
to carry out their responsibilities under the AIM Rules. The Compliance 
Committee is chaired by Yuen Choong Lai and the other members are 
John Croft and Alan Lim. 
There is no formal meeting set for the Compliance Committee as the 
functions of the Compliance Committee are carried out in conjunction 
with the proceedings in the board meetings wherein compliance with 
the AIM Rules and the release of information and communications with 
the Company's NOMAD and the market are highlighted and informed to 
the Board.
Investor relations
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer meet up 
with  the  analysts and institutional shareholders of the Company 
following the interim and annual results announcements and on an  
as needed basis to update the shareholders on the progress of the Group 
in terms of its business, financial performance and strategic objectives 
to promote alignment of interests between shareholders. The annual 
report and accounts is published on the Company's website,  
www.fusionex international.com, and can be accessed by the shareholders. 
Internal control and risk management 
The Board is responsible for the Group's systems of internal controls 
and for reviewing the effectiveness of the systems. The systems are put in 
place to manage and minimise the risks but not to eliminate them, so the 
systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material misstatements or losses.
Executive Directors of the Company are actively involved in the daily 
operations and management of the Group and with regular meetings 
with the staff of the Group. Business risks are identified which enables 
appropriate control systems to be implemented to manage the risks. 
The effectiveness of the control systems are reviewed and updated.
The Group has quality assurance processes in place for the development, 
of software and delivery of software products to its customers as evidenced 
by the Group's certification and registration for ISO 9001 - Quality Assurance 
and CMMI Level 3. 
The Group's internal financial control procedures and monitoring systems 
are in place which include:
   financial policies and approval procedures with proper authorisation 
level and segregation of duties for financial management;
   maintenance of proper records for the production of accurate and 
timely financial management information;
   annual budgetary process to set the appropriate target for monitoring 
of the progress of the Group;
   detailed monthly financial reporting system that reports on operating 
results, cash flow, assets and liabilities with comparisons against budgets; 
   reporting on any non compliance with internal financial controls 
and procedures; and
   review of Audit Committee report issued by external auditor.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board reviews reports from 
the external auditor together with management's response regarding 
proposed actions. Via such review, they have reviewed the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems for the period covered by the accounts.