 Corporate Governance
Introduction
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. The Group accepts the principles of good corporate
governance as embodied in the Combined Code and applies them taking into account the size of the Group. The following sections
explain how these principles of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code are applied in practice.
Statement of application of the Principles of Good Governance and compliance with the Code of Best Practice
Since the Introduction to AiM on 22 July 2003, the Directors have sought to make any necessary changes to ensure that the Company
complies with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice, as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board has made the following change on 4 September 2003 to increase its compliance with the Combined Code:
 
a schedule of matters reserved for the Board was adopted, formalising the existing practice.
On 4 November 2003, the following changes were also made:
  a formal procedure was adopted enabling directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's
expense in the furtherance of their duties as directors of the Company.
 
the rules regarding the position of Company Secretary and the availability for access by Directors was agreed.
  roles and responsibilities in respect of the training of directors as officers of the Company were defined and agreed, led by
the senior independent non-executive Director.
  a review of internal controls included for the first time a full risk review including all aspects of the Group (strategic,
operational, financial and compliance) and this will be maintained throughout each year and considered and reviewed
annually by the Board.
The Board considers that given the size and nature of its activities it does not intend to comply with the Combined Code in respect of the
following items and this is not unreasonable and does not compromise the overall principles of Corporate Governance which the Board
strongly supports:
  the Group and Board are too small for a separate nominations committee but this matter will be reviewed annually. In the
absence of a nominations committee all appointments to the Board must be made at Board Meetings where all non-executive
Directors are present, a non-executive is appointed Chairman of the meeting and the senior independent non-executive
Director has the casting vote in appointment decisions.
 
the remuneration of executive Directors does not yet include a performance related element. It is considered inappropriate by
the Board to provide bonuses related to the results of the Company in its development phase and prior to achieving revenue
and profitability. Instead, the interests of Directors are aligned with that of shareholders by the provision of share options.
This matter will be kept under review by the Remuneration Committee.
  the Remuneration Committee includes the Chairman who is not independent by virtue of consulting services provided to the
subsidiary. However, he is an adviser to the Committee and is precluded from voting.
  the Board considers the Group too small for an internal audit function but will keep the need for one under review as part of
the annual risk review.
 
the Audit Committee comprises only 2 non-executive Directors but this is considered sufficient by the Board given the nature,
size and complexity of the Group.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group. The composition and biographies are set out on page 7.
The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, two independent non-executive Directors and three executive Directors. The
non-executive Chairman provides consulting services to the subsidiary, Futura Medical Developments Limited, and has share options in
the Company. The two other non-executive Directors do not have shareholdings or options in the Company and solely receive fees as non-
executive Directors. Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that it has an appropriate mix of independence and experience in its non-executive
Directors.
The Board retains full control of the Group. The full Board meets bimonthly and is responsible for formulating and monitoring Group
strategy, as well as complying with legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters. There is a schedule of matters reserved for the
Board which was adopted on 4 September 2003.
Board papers are circulated in advance of each Board meeting. Operational control is delegated by the Board to the executive Directors.
- 14 -
FUTURA MEDICAL PLC Annual Report 31 December 2003 Corporate Governance (continued)
Remuneration of Directors
Prior to joining AiM on 22 July 2003, the Company was already in compliance with many aspects of the Combined Code in respect of
Directors remuneration.
Currently, Directors interests are aligned with those of shareholders through share options. However, there is no performance-related
element to Directors remuneration. It is anticipated that such an element will be introduced related to future profitability of the Group. The
Remuneration Committee comprises all non-executive Directors. It is recognised that the Chairman is not fully independent, but his
knowledge and experience is considered valuable to the remuneration committee and this is balanced out by two independent executive
Directors and it is chaired by the senior independent non-executive Director.
As an unquoted Company, the detailed disclosure of Directors remuneration was not previously disclosed in the financial statements to
the same level as is included in these financial statements.
Further detail is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 11 to 13.
Investor relations
The Directors seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its shareholders by meetings with investors
and analysts. The Company also maintains investor relations pages on its website (www.futuramedical.co.uk) to increase the amount of
information available to investors.
There will be an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the Senior
Independent non-executive Director, who chairs the remuneration and audit committees, and the executive Directors. The notice of the
meeting together with any related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. Shareholders are given
the opportunity to vote on each separate issue. The Company counts all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each
resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Financial reporting and internal control
The Company has disclosed any reasons for non compliance with the Combined Code provisions on internal control by establishing the
procedures necessary to implement guidance issued by the Internal Control working party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales issued in September 1999 (the Turnbull Committee report).
In addition, the company has voluntarily disclosed compliance with the provisions of the combined code.
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to the achievement of business objectives
and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and continues to monitor its performance. In addition, the first
formal risk review was undertaken and reviewed by the Board on 4 November 2003. This review is now part of the overall control system
operated by the Company.
The main features of the internal control system are outlined below:
  A control environment exists through the close management of the business by the executive Directors. The Group has a
defined organisational structure with delineated approval limits. Controls are implemented and monitored by the Executive
Directors.
  The Board has a schedule of matters expressly reserved for its consideration and this schedule includes acquisitions and
disposals, major capital projects, treasury and risk management policies and approval of budgets.
  The group utilises a detailed budgeting and forecasting system. Detailed budgets and forecasts are prepared by the executive
Directors before submission to the Board for approval. Forecasts are prepared at least quarterly. Actual results are monitored
against budget and forecast, with variances highlighted for the Board.
 
Financial risks are identified and evaluated for each major transaction for consideration by the Board and senior
management.
  Standard financial control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure that the assets of the Group are safeguarded
and that proper accounting records are maintained.
  An on-going risk management process has been implemented which identifies the key business risk facing each business
unit, including an annual report to the Board on the results of this process. Risks are monitored on a regular basis.
- 15 -
FUTURA MEDICAL PLC Annual Report 31 December 2003