 The Directors recognise the importance of 
sound corporate governance, whilst taking 
into account the size and nature of the Group. 
The Board is responsible to the shareholders 
for the proper management of the Group. 
The Board is responsible for setting the 
Group's strategic direction, the establishment 
of Group policies and internal controls and 
the monitoring of operational performance. It 
meets regularly throughout the year and, in 
addition to the routine reporting of financial 
and operational issues, reviews certain key 
functions such as fuel and currency hedging 
between meetings. The Board has a schedule 
of matters specifically reserved to it for 
decision. The Board meeting agenda normally 
comprises inter alia strategy, an operational 
review and a financial review. Specific 
meetings cover the approval of the interim 
and preliminary financial results and the 
approval of the annual budget. Information is 
normally provided to all Board members in 
the week prior to a Board meeting to enable 
the Directors to consider the issues for 
discussion and to request clarification or 
additional information. The Board regularly 
reviews the type and amount of information 
provided. The Board plans to meet at least 6 
times a year and in FY09/10 met a total of 
eleven times. All Directors have access to the 
advice of the Company Secretary Peter 
Buckley, who is responsible to the Board for 
ensuring that procedures are followed. A 
statement of Directors' responsibilities in 
respect of the financial statements is set out 
in this Annual Report on page 21. 
At 31 October 2010, the Board comprised 
four executive directors and two non-
executive directors. The Board consisted of 
the Executive Chairman, three further 
Executive Directors and two Non-Executive 
The Board
ALL LEISURE GROUP PLC   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
10
Directors which in the opinion of the Board is 
an appropriate composition for the Group at 
this stage of its development. The positions 
of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are 
not combined, ensuring a clear division of 
responsibility at the head of the Group. The 
Board offers a range of experience and 
expertise sufficient to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, 
performance, safety, resources and standards 
of conduct which is vital to the success of the 
Group. At the Annual General Meeting held 
on 16th March 2010, Rob Bryant and Ross 
Jobber put themselves forward for re-election 
to office and were duly reappointed. 
Both non-executive directors hold shares in 
the Group, as disclosed in the Directors' 
Report. However because the number of 
shares held is relatively small and there are 
no cross directorships between executive and 
non-executive directors, these shareholdings 
are not believed to impact on the Non-
Executive Directors' independence. Nigel 
Jenkins is considered an independent director 
by the Group. Philip Ovenden, is not deemed 
independent due to previous executive 
employment arrangements with the Group 
which ended in October 2007. 
The Executive Chairman of the Board is Roger 
Allard who is responsible for the preparation 
and execution of the Group's strategic plan. 
Rob Bryant is the Chief Executive Officer and 
is responsible for co-ordination of the Group's 
business activities. Guy Marchant as Group 
Finance Director is responsible for the 
production of both management and 
statutory accounts. Ross Jobber as Chief 
Operating Officer has responsibilities for 
group HR, IT and compliance as well as 
supporting the Chairman and Chief Executive 
in corporate development.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
Roger Allard and Nigel Jenkins are offering 
themselves for re-election. Subject to re-
election at the first AGM after which they are 
appointed, all Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed initially for a three year term and, 
after review, may be proposed for a further 
three year term. The Group will take into 
account the balance of skills and experience 
on the Board, and their contribution and level 
of independence when considering whether 
to extend their appointment beyond the 
initial term.
The Group's nominated advisor (NOMAD) is 
Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited, an 
appointment made on 26 June 2009. The 
Board takes significant measures to ensure 
that all Board members are kept aware of 
both the views of major shareholders and 
changes in the major shareholdings of the 
Group. This is achieved by giving all Directors 
access to the Group's NOMAD.
In accordance with corporate governance 
best practice, the Board has established Audit 
and Remuneration committees, comprising 
two non-executive directors for both the 
audit and remuneration committees.
The committees have duties and 
responsibilities formally delegated to them by 
the Board.  The committees have the 
following memberships:
Remuneration Committee (2010/11):
Nigel Jenkins (Chair), Philip Ovenden
Remuneration Committee (2009/10);
Nigel Jenkins (Chair), Philip Ovenden
Audit Committee (2010/11): 
Philip Ovenden (Chair), Nigel Jenkins
Audit Committee (2009/10):
Philip Ovenden (Chair), Nigel Jenkins
The Board met eleven times last year and the 
attendance of the Directors at the Board and 
committee meetings, where appropriate, are 
overleaf as follows:
Board Committees
Meeting attendance ALL LEISURE GROUP PLC   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
11
Meeting Attendance
The Board met eleven times last year and the attendance of the Directors at the Board and committee 
meetings, where appropriate, are as follows:
Annual General
Meeting
Scheduled Board
Meeting
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Roger Allard 1 (1) 11 (11) #       +
Rob Bryant 0 (1) 11 (11) # +
Guy Marchant 0 (1) 11 (11) #        N/A
Nigel Jenkins 0 (1) 10 (11) 2 (2) 1 (1)
Ross Jobber 1 (1) 10 (11) # N/A
Philip Ovenden 0 (1) 9 (11) 2 (2) 1 (1)
Attendance includes conference calls.  Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings 
in the period in which the individual was a member of the Board or the relevant Committee, and was 
required to attend the meeting.
# All executive directors attended the Audit Committee meetings at the request of the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. + Roger Allard and Rob Bryant attended the Remuneration Committee 
meetings at the request of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee was chaired throughout 
the year (and currently) by Philip Ovenden. It 
comprises both an independent and a non-
independent non-executive director. The 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance 
Director are invited to attend meetings, as 
appropriate. The Audit Committee reviews 
the half-year and annual financial statements, 
matters related to internal controls and holds 
the relationship with the external audit 
function. In addition, the Audit Committee 
ensures that an objective and professional 
relationship is maintained with the external 
auditors, with particular regard to the nature 
and extent of any non-audit functions they 
provide. During the year ended 31 October 
2010, the Group's external auditors, Deloitte 
LLP (Deloitte ), provided non audit services 
to the Group. The fees paid to Deloitte for 
non audit services were  52,000 (2009: 
 30,000) excluding VAT. The use of Deloitte 
for non-audit work was carefully evaluated by 
the Audit Committee, which was satisfied 
that the necessary independence was 
achieved. The Audit Committee views the 
independence and objectivity of the Group's 
auditors as essential and ensures that 
Deloitte are not instructed on any issue which 
would prejudice this. The Audit Committee 
obtains written confirmation on at least an 
annual basis of the independence of the 
external auditors. The Audit Committee also 
reviews the possible risks facing the Group, 
the risk management function and internal 
controls. In particular it is constantly updated 
on decisions made by executive directors 
regarding currency and fuel hedging.
The Group places the utmost importance on 
the timely dissemination of operational and 
financial reports. The Group Financial 
Controller, Mark Jeffries reports to the Group 
Finance Director and is responsible for the 
preparation of the Group's management 
accounts. 
In the year ended 31 October 2010 the Audit 
Committee met with the Group auditors, 
Deloitte, without the Chairman or Chief 
Executive present. The chairman of the Audit 
Committee also met with the Group auditors 
in the presence of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive on several occasions.
The Remuneration Committee has the 
primary responsibility to review the 
performance of the Company's executive 
directors and Company Secretary and to set 
their remuneration and other terms of 
Remuneration Committee
employment. The Remuneration Committee 
is chaired by Nigel Jenkins and consists of 
both Non- Executive Directors. 
Given the size of the Company the Board 
deems it appropriate that all members are 
closely involved in nominating new Board 
members and therefore no Nominations 
Committee exists at this time. The Board will 
review this arrangement annually.
After making enquiries, the Directors have 
formed a judgement at the time of approving 
these financial statements that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the Directors have 
adopted the going concern basis in preparing 
these financial statements.  Further details 
are provided in the Finance Director's Report.
Results are released on a semi-annual basis 
as required under the AIM Rules. Existing and 
potential institutional investors are offered 
one-on-one meetings with Executive 
Directors immediately thereafter. The 
primary responsibility for this process lies 
with the Executive Chairman, supported by 
the Chief Operating Officer. All shareholders 
have the opportunity to put questions to the 
Board at the Annual General Meeting and at 
other times by emailing or writing to the 
Company or to its NOMAD Panmure Gordon 
(UK) Limited. Citigate Dewe Rogerson advises 
the Group on the optimal dissemination of 
relevant information to shareholders and to 
the market in general. In addition, the Group 
maintains a website pursuant to Rule 26 of 
the AIM Rules for Companies containing 
constitutional documents, press releases and 
Company contact information.
 
Nominations Committee
Going concern
Relations with shareholders