 9
ALL LEISURE GROUP PLC  CORPORAtE GO vERNANCE St AtEmENt
The Directors recognise the importance of 
sound corporate governance, whilst taking into 
account the size and nature of the Group.
the Board
The Board is responsible to the shareholders 
for the proper management of the Group. The 
Board is responsible for setting the Group's 
strategic direction, the establishment of 
Group policies and internal controls and the 
monitoring of operational performance. It 
meets regularly throughout the year and, in 
addition to the routine reporting of financial 
and operational issues, reviews certain key 
functions such as fuel and currency hedging 
between meetings. The Board has a schedule of 
matters specifically reserved to it for decision. 
The Board meeting agenda normally comprises 
inter alia strategy, an operational review and 
a financial review. Specific meetings cover 
the approval of the interim and preliminary 
financial results and the approval of the annual 
budget. Information is normally provided to all 
Board members in the week prior to a Board 
meeting to enable the Directors to consider the 
issues for discussion and to request clarification 
or additional information. The Board regularly 
reviews the type and amount of information 
provided. The Board plans to meet at least 6 
times a year and in FY10/11 met a total of 12 
times. All Directors have access to the advice 
of the Company Secretary Peter Buckley, 
who is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
that procedures are followed. A statement 
of Directors' responsibilities in respect of the 
financial statements is set out in this Annual 
Report below. 
At 31 October 2011, the Board comprised 
three executive directors and two non-
executive directors, one of whom is considered 
independent. The Board consisted of the 
Executive Chairman, two further Executive 
Directors and two Non-Executive Directors 
which, in the opinion of the Board, is an 
appropriate composition for the Group at 
this stage of its development. The positions 
of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are 
not combined, ensuring a clear division of 
responsibility at the head of the Group. The 
Board offers a range of experience and expertise 
sufficient to bring independent judgement on 
issues of strategy, performance, safety, resources 
and standards of conduct which is vital to the 
success of the Group. At the Annual General 
Meeting held on 22 March 2011, Roger Allard 
and Nigel Jenkins put themselves forward for re-
election to office and were duly reappointed. 
Both Non-Executive Directors hold shares 
in the Group, as disclosed in the Directors' 
Report. However because the number of 
shares held is relatively small and there are 
no cross directorships between executive and 
non-executive directors, these shareholdings 
are not believed to impact on the Non-
Executive Directors' independence. Nigel 
Jenkins is considered to be independent as 
defined by the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Philip Ovenden, used to hold executive 
employment arrangements with the Group. 
Although these ceased in October 2007, the 
UK Corporate Governance Code requires a 
minimum period of five years to elapse before 
potentially being considered independent. 
The Executive Chairman of the Board is Roger 
Allard who is responsible for the preparation 
and execution of the Group's strategic plan. 
Rob Bryant is the Chief Executive Officer and 
is responsible for co-ordination of the Group's 
business activities. Neil Morris as Group Finance 
Director is responsible for the production of 
both management and statutory accounts. 
Following the departure of Ross Jobber as Chief 
Operating Officer, Neil Morris has also assumed 
Ross' responsibilities for Group HR and IT as 
well as supporting the Chairman and Chief 
Executive in corporate development.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
Rob Bryant and Philip Ovenden are offering 
themselves for re-election. Subject to re-election 
at the first AGM after which they are appointed, 
all Non-Executive Directors are appointed 
initially for a three year term and, after review, 
may be proposed for a further three year term. 
The Group will take into account the balance 
of skills and experience on the Board, and 
their contribution and level of independence 
when considering whether to extend their 
appointment beyond the initial term.
 Board diversity
Collectively, the directors have a diverse range 
of skills and experience. When looking for board 
candidates, endeavours to ensure that searches 
are conducted, and appointments made, on 
merit and with due regard for the benefits of 
diversity on the Board, including gender.
Nominated advisor
The Group's nominated advisor (NOMAD) 
is Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited. The Board 
takes significant measures to ensure that all 
Board members are kept aware of both the 
views of major shareholders and changes in 
the major shareholdings of the Group. This is 
achieved by giving all Directors access to the 
Group's NOMAD.
Board Committees
In accordance with corporate governance best 
practice, the Board has established Audit and 
Remuneration committees, comprising two 
non-executive directors for both the audit and 
remuneration committees.
The committees have duties and 
responsibilities formally delegated to them by 
the Board.  The committees have the following 
memberships:
Remuneration Committee (2011/12):
Nigel Jenkins (Chair), Philip Ovenden
Remuneration Committee (2010/11): 
Nigel Jenkins (Chair), Philip Ovenden
Audit Committee (2011/12):   
Philip Ovenden (Chair), Nigel Jenkins
Audit Committee (2010/11):   
Philip Ovenden (Chair), Nigel Jenkins 10
ALL LEISURE GROUP PLC  CORPORAtE GO vERNANCE St AtEmENt (Continued)
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee was chaired throughout 
the year (and currently) by Philip Ovenden. It 
comprises both an independent and a non-
independent non-executive director . The 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director 
are invited to attend meetings, as appropriate. 
The Audit Committee reviews the half-year and 
annual financial statements, matters related 
to internal controls and holds the relationship 
with the external audit function. In addition, 
the Audit Committee ensures that an objective 
and professional relationship is maintained with 
the external auditors, with particular regard 
to the nature and extent of any non-audit 
services they provide. During the year ended 
31 October 2011, the Group's external auditors, 
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte ), provided non-audit 
services to the Group. The fees paid to Deloitte 
for non-audit services were  21,000 (2010: 
 52,000) excluding VAT . The use of Deloitte for 
non-audit work was carefully evaluated by the 
Audit Committee, which was satisfied that the 
necessary independence was achieved. The 
Audit Committee views the independence and 
objectivity of the Group's auditors as essential 
and ensures that Deloitte are not instructed on 
any issue which would prejudice this. The Audit 
Committee obtains written confirmation on at 
least an annual basis of the independence of 
the external auditors. The Audit Committee also 
reviews the possible risks facing the Group, the 
risk management function and internal controls. 
In particular it is constantly updated on decisions 
made by executive directors regarding currency 
and fuel hedging.
The Group places the utmost importance 
on the timely dissemination of operational 
and financial reports. The Group Financial 
Controller reports to the Group Finance 
Director and is responsible for the preparation 
of the Group's management accounts. 
In the year ended 31 October 2011 the Audit 
Committee met with the Group auditors, 
Deloitte, without the Chairman or Chief 
Executive present. The chairman of the Audit 
Committee also met with the Group auditors 
in the presence of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive on several occasions.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has the 
primary responsibility to review the 
performance of the Company's executive 
directors and Company Secretary and to 
set their remuneration and other terms of 
employment. The Remuneration Committee is 
chaired by Nigel Jenkins and consists of both 
Non-Executive Directors. 
Nominations Committee
Given the size of the Company the Board 
deems it appropriate that all members are 
closely involved in nominating new Board 
members and therefore no Nominations 
Committee exists at this time. The Board will 
review this arrangement annually.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have 
formed a judgement at the time of approving 
these financial statements that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, the Directors have adopted the going 
concern basis in preparing these financial 
statements.  Further details are provided in 
the Finance Director's Report.
Relations with shareholders
Results are released on a semi-annual basis 
as required under the AIM Rules. Existing 
and potential institutional investors are 
offered one-on-one meetings with Executive 
Directors immediately thereafter. The primary 
responsibility for this process lies with the 
Executive Chairman, supported by the Group 
Finance Director. All shareholders have the 
opportunity to put questions to the Board 
at the Annual General Meeting and at other 
times by emailing or writing to the Company 
or to its NOMAD Panmure Gordon (UK) 
Limited. Citigate Dewe Rogerson advises 
the Group on the optimal dissemination of 
relevant information to shareholders and to 
the market in general. In addition, the Group 
maintains a website pursuant to Rule 26 of 
the AIM Rules for Companies containing 
constitutional documents, press releases and 
Company contact information.
The Board met 12 times last year and the attendance of the Directors at the Board and committee 
meetings, where appropriate, was as follows:
 Annual Scheduled  
 General Board Adult Remuneration 
 meeting meeting Committee Committee
Roger Allard 1 (1) 12 (12) # + 
Rob Bryant 0 (1) 12 (12) # + 
Neil Morris 1 (1) 10 (10) # N/A 
Nigel Jenkins 0 (1) 11 (12) 2 (2) 2 (2) 
Philip Ovenden 1 (1) 11 (12) 2 (2) 2 (2)
Attendance includes conference calls.  Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the 
period in which the individual was a member of the Board or the relevant Committee, and was required to 
attend the meeting.
# All executive directors attended the Audit Committee meetings at the request of the Chairman of the 
Audit  Committee.
+ Roger Allard and Rob Bryant attended the Remuneration Committee meetings at the request of the 
Chairman  of the Remuneration Committee.