 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Statement on Corporate Governance
Corporate governance
Allders continues to be committed to the best practice of good
corporate governance.  A narrative statement on how the company
has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance of the
Combined Code of Corporate Governance and a statement explaining
the extent to which the Code provisions have been complied with
appear below.
Application narrative statement
The Code establishes 14 principles of good governance which are
grouped into the four areas described below addressing the structure
and operation of the Board, directors' remuneration, relations with
Shareholders and the Board's accountability.
The Board of directors
The Board of directors currently comprises three executive and 
four independent non-executive directors with a clear separation 
of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.  Their biographies are 
set out on page 16 of this Report and Accounts.  The appointment 
of directors is a formal process involving all members of the Board.
The Nominations Committee establishes the criteria for the appointment
of non-executive directors and their recommendations are then
considered and confirmed by all directors.  Every director will 
receive training on or before appointment to the Board and
thereafter, where appropriate.
In addition to participating in Board meetings the four non-executive
directors are the members of the Audit, Nominations and
Remuneration Committees.  Detta O'Cathain, James Tuckey and 
Brian Fidler were Chairmen of the Remuneration Committee, 
the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee respectively
throughout the year ended 28 September 2002.
The non-executive directors have no financial or contractual interest
in the company other than by way of their fees and shareholdings as
disclosed in the Board Report on Directors' Remuneration.  They do
not participate in the group's share option schemes and their service
is not pensionable.
All directors are required to submit themselves for election at the
Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for 
re-election at least once every three years thereafter.
The Board delegates responsibility for the group's day-to-day
operations to the Chief Executive who, supported by other group
executives and management, implements Board policy and manages
the group's business to meet its financial objectives and standards of
quality and service.
The Board, which meets formally at least eight times a year, approves
the group's long-term goals and strategies and provides overall
financial and organisational control.  To facilitate this, reporting
obligations are imposed on the executive directors in respect of
a range of financial and business matters, certain of which are
specifically reserved to the Board for decision.  The group has a
comprehensive system for reporting financial results, cash flows and
projections to the Board on a monthly basis.  These are compared
with budgets approved by the Board at the commencement of each
financial year.  The financial summaries are accompanied by a written
report explaining operating and financial performance, and the cause
and effect of variances from the agreed budgets.
During the year the Chairman and the Secretary prepare a detailed
agenda for each meeting of the Board, for which relevant papers are
circulated in advance of each meeting.  The Board papers include
sufficient information from management on financial, business and
corporate issues to enable the directors to be properly briefed on
issues to be considered at Board meetings. Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Individual directors have different skills, experience and qualifications
with certain of their number presently or previously working in other
sectors of the economy, and are able to bring independent judgement
to bear on matters designated for consideration by the Board,
including performance and strategy.  Directors may, after consultation
with the Chairman and, if circumstances permit, the Chief Executive,
take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at
the reasonable expense of the company.  All directors have access to
the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment
or removal is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or any
duly delegated committee thereof.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in safeguarding
investors' interests by monitoring the group's performance and its
executive management.  The non-executive directors have access 
to management and external advisers which enables them to fulfil
their duties.
The Board considers its non-executive directors to be of sufficient
calibre and number that their views may be expected to be of
sufficient weight that no individual or small group can dominate 
the Board's decision making processes.
Directors' remuneration
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the
remuneration and conditions of employment of the executive
directors.  The Committee reviews and comments upon the salary
level of all senior executives employed by the company and of
the directors of subsidiaries within the group.  Other than the
shareholdings listed in the Board Report on Directors' Remuneration,
Committee members have no financial interest in the company 
or its subsidiaries.
A statement of the company's policy on executive directors'
remuneration and details of the remuneration of each director 
are included in the Board Report on Directors' Remuneration.  The 
fees of the non-executive directors are set by the Board as a whole,
commensurate with the market rates and reflecting the required 
level of involvement in the group's activities.
Relations with shareholders
The directors are always prepared, where practicable, to meet 
or enter into a dialogue with shareholders to develop a mutual
understanding of objectives.  These meetings are usually attended 
by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.  When appropriate,
the Chairman is available to meet with shareholders.
The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the prime
opportunity to communicate with private investors on a formal and
informal basis and encourages their attendance and participation.  
All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the
Annual General Meeting.
The Board is pleased to continue the giving of discounts for private
shareholders on purchases at the group's stores, by way of vouchers
with a total value of  100 which are being sent to individual
shareholders holding at least 2,000 shares at the date of this report.  
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting 
Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the
group's operations are included in the Chief Executive's Review and
the Operating and Financial Review.  The Board uses these, together
with the Chairman's Statement and the Directors' Report, to present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of the group's position
and prospects.  The directors' responsibilities for the financial
statements are described on page 24 of this Report and Accounts.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the group's system of internal control and
for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.  It includes financial, operational and
compliance controls.  Steps are being taken to embed internal control
and risk management further into the operations of the business and
to deal with areas of improvement which come to management's and
the Board's attention. 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2002
The Board has established a continuing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the group's significant risks that has been 
in place for the year ended 28 September 2002 and up to the date 
of approval of the annual report and accounts.  The key element 
of this process is a quarterly review by senior operating management
of all the significant risks faced by the business.  The results of each
review are communicated to and considered by the Board.  This
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the
internal control guidance for directors of the Combined Code.
The group has an internal audit function to review those areas of the
business where the Board believes that this will assist in the fulfilment
of its responsibilities.  The scope and methodology of work performed
has been reviewed and expanded in the last year.  In addition, 
certain head office functions have been audited with the assistance 
of outside expertise.  
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have formed the judgement, 
at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a
reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this
reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.  This statement also forms part 
of the Operating and Financial Review.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises solely the four non-executive directors
and has written terms of reference which deal clearly with its authority
and duties.  It meets at least twice a year with the external auditors;
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend by invitation.  
The Committee oversees the monitoring of the adequacy of the
group's internal controls, accounting policies and financial reporting
and provides a forum through which the group's external auditors
report to the non-executive directors.
Statement of compliance
Throughout the year ended 28 September 2002 the company 
has complied with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of
the Combined Code except as specified below.
Senior Independent Director
Given the size of the Board and the fact that the Chairman 
is one of four non-executive directors, there is no appointed 
senior independent director.  
Directors' service agreements
At the start of the year, two executive directors, Harvey Lipsith and 
Stan Kaufman, had service agreements which provided for termination
by the director or the company giving to the other notice in writing
with a period of more than 12 months.  This period of notice was
reduced in stages to 12 months by 1 February 2002.  All executive
directors' service agreements now have a notice period of 12 months.
By Order of the Board
Steve Smith
Secretary
27 November 2002