 Audit Committee report .CD
Composition
The Audit Committee comprises the following independent non-
executive Directors:
John Sheldrick (Chairman)
Angus Cockburn
Tufan Erginbilgic
Shonaid Jemmett-Page
Richard Parry-Jones
Michael Turner was a member of the Committee until his appointment
as Chairman of the Board on 3 May 2012. Angus Cockburn became a
member of the Committee on his appointment as a non-executive
Director on 1 January 2013.
The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary. 
The Committee's members have, in the Board's view, recent and
relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate
Governance Code. In particular, John Sheldrick, the Committee
Chairman, was Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995
until his retirement in September 2009 and has chaired GKN's Audit
Committee since 2006; and Shonaid Jemmett-Page has held a number
of senior finance roles in Unilever and is a former partner at KPMG and
former Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc, the UK Government's
development finance institution. Angus Cockburn is currently the Chief
Financial Officer of Aggreko plc and previously held senior finance
positions within international organisations.
Role
The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings 
to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and
audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk
management systems. The Committee is responsible for monitoring and
reviewing:
  the integrity of the Group's financial statements and the 
significant reporting judgements contained in them;
  the appropriateness of the Group's relationship with the external
auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of
non-audit services;
  the effectiveness of the external audit process, making
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditors;
  the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function
(Corporate Audit);
  the effectiveness of the Group's internal control and risk
management systems; and
  the Group's policies and practices concerning business conduct 
and ethics, including whistleblowing.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committee's authority and
responsibility are available on our website at www.gkn.com.
Advice provided to the Committee
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access
to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and 
may obtain outside professional advice as necessary. During 2012 no
member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought such
outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to
the Committee by the external auditors. Both the Head of Corporate
Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of
the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
2012 Activities
The Committee met on four occasions in 2012 timed to coincide with the
financial and reporting cycles of the Company. Members' attendance at
these meetings is set out in the table on page 50.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Corporate
Audit, the engagement partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and
other members of senior management attended meetings by invitation.
The Head of Corporate Audit and PwC each had the opportunity to discuss
matters with the Committee without any executive management being
present at two meetings. In addition, the members of the Committee met
separately at the start of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence
of any persons attending by invitation.
Financial reporting
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial
reporting and related matters in respect of the Company's half year 
and annual results statements and its annual report prior to their
consideration by the Board. In particular, the Committee reviewed the
significant accounting judgements made in respect of business
combination accounting, including the accounting methodologies used
to establish a fair value opening balance sheet for the Volvo Aero
acquisition, recognition of deferred tax assets, development costs on
Aerospace contracts and assumptions in respect of post-employment
obligations. Key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the
adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial statements were
also considered. Reports highlighting key accounting matters and
significant judgements were also received from PwC in respect of each
set of financial statements; these were discussed in Committee
meetings with the auditors. Analysis to support the going concern
judgement given on page 35 was also reviewed.
External auditors
Independence
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation
and monitoring of the Company's policies on external audit. The
policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the
external auditors, regulate the appointment of former employees of the
external audit firm to positions in the Group and set out the approach to
be taken when using the external auditors for non-audit work.  .CE
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
As a general principle the external auditors are excluded from consultancy
work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there
are compelling reasons to do so, for example where PwC can draw upon
significant historic knowledge gained through the audit process. Any
proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit work must be
submitted to the Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, for
approval prior to appointment. The Finance Director will, depending on the
nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the
Audit Committee.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2012 can be found in note 4(a) to the
financial statements. Non-audit fees incurred during 2012 amounted to 
 1.6 million which related principally to corporate finance transaction
services ( 0.7 million) and tax compliance services ( 0.6 million) with tax
advisory services totalling  0.2 million and other services pursuant to
legislation equalling  0.1 million. All activities remained within the policy
approved by the Board. 
The Committee receives annual confirmation from PwC as to their
independence and objectivity within the context of applicable
regulatory requirements and professional standards, as well as
management confirmation of compliance with the Group's policies on
the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the
use of the external auditors for non-audit work. The objectivity and
independence of PwC is also considered as part of Corporate Audit's
annual review of the effectiveness of both the external auditors and the
audit process.
Effectiveness and reappointment
During the year, the Committee undertook a thorough review of the
performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the
external audit process. This included consideration of the responses
from interviews conducted with Directors and senior management
concerning the audit strategy, independence and objectivity of PwC.
The Committee also took into consideration the recent rotation of the
audit partner (in March 2011) and the matters reviewed as part of the
subsequent tender proposal by the new audit partner for future GKN
audits which covered such matters as qualification, expertise, resourcing,
independence, objectivity and value for money. The tender proposal
was subject to thorough review by the Committee.
In light of the above, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate
to recommend to the Board PwC's reappointment as the Company's
auditors for a further year. There are no contractual obligations
restricting the Committee's choice of external auditors.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to GKN
from the 2013 financial year, will require listed companies to put the
audit services contract out to tender at least every ten years or explain
why they have not done so. On the recommendation of the Audit
Committee, the Board is proposing to put the audit contract out to
competitive tender no later than the time of the rotation of the current
audit partner which is scheduled for 2016. Mindful of FRC advice on the
impracticality of all companies conducting a tender exercise at the same
time, the precise timing of this exercise will be kept under review.
Internal control
In 2012 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken 
by Corporate Audit and considered the adequacy of management's
response to the matters raised, including the implementation of any
recommendations made. The Committee considered and approved 
the 2013 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit
approach, coverage and allocation of resources. The effectiveness of
Corporate Audit was formally reviewed, taking into account the views of
Directors and senior management on matters such as independence,
proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group level
significance, including details of any remedial action being taken; these
reports included updates on the status of the Group's proprietary
internal financial control monitoring system (GKN Reporting and
Integrity Procedures). It considered reports from Corporate Audit and
PwC on the Group's systems of internal control and reported to the
Board on the results of its review. The Committee also examined reports
detailing the Group's actual or potential material litigation, monitored
compliance with the Group's policy for the appointment of agents and
consultants, and reviewed the Directors' and Company Secretary's
expenses.
Further information on the Group's systems of internal control and risk
management is given on pages 52 and 53.
Whistleblowing
To support the Group's Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy (which
is available on our website), GKN operates a Group-wide international
whistleblowing hotline. Run by an external and independent third party,
the hotline facilitates arrangements whereby employees can make
(on an anonymous basis if preferred) confidential disclosures about
suspected impropriety and wrongdoing. Any matters reported are
investigated and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made 
are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Performance evaluation
No changes were considered necessary to the Committee's terms of
reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process which took
place during the year, and the Committee was considered to be effective
in fulfilling its role throughout 2012.
On behalf of the Committee
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee
25 February 2013