 Strategic report  
Risk management
Risk management
Our approach to risk
We have rigorous processes and systems in place to 
help assure the integrity of our business operations 
which include how we identify and manage the risks 
that could impact our business
The management of risk is an important factor 
in the long-term success of our business 
and is a key focus of our Board and senior 
management. Sound risk management helps 
us address the inherent risks in our business 
while creating value for shareholders, 
protecting company assets and maintaining 
our focus on the fundamentals of product 
quality, safety and sustainability. 
Our aim is to identify, assess and manage risk 
at all levels of the organisation. Employees are 
expected to take accountability for identifying 
and escalating encountered risks so that 
they can be appropriately managed. Our risk 
management hierarchy is focused on making 
such escalation simple, rapid and transparent. 
This approach allows us to balance our level 
and type of risk exposure with our ability to 
pursue our strategic priorities.
The hierarchy of our risk management 
governance is shown in Figure 1. The diagram 
summarises the linked roles, responsibilities 
and relationships between different oversight 
and management groups. Figure 2 provides a 
representation of the process and framework 
around risk management.
We are committed to conducting business  
in accordance with all applicable laws  
and regulations. Our established company 
policies, standards and internal controls, 
together with our company values, underpin 
our approach to risk management. 
Global risk management
The Board is responsible for ensuring that 
risks that could adversely impact the company 
are appropriately managed, with the oversight 
of this managed through the Audit and Risk 
Committee (ARC). The ARC will take a holistic 
view, looking at our financial results and 
controls, the operations or our businesses 
and their management of risk, as well as 
considering new emerging risks. (Further 
information on the Board's responsibilities 
is included in the Corporate Governance 
section, see page 82.)
While the Board and ARC set the direction 
of our risk management and policies, it is 
our Corporate Executive Team (CET) that 
has responsibility for identifying, approving, 
monitoring and enforcing key policies 
concerning risks and controls that determine 
how the Group conducts its business. 
Figure 1: Governance structure of risk management
Audit & Risk  
Committee
Responsible for reviewing and approving 
the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk 
management and internal controls
Board of
Directors
Responsible for our system of corporate 
governance, strategy, risk management and 
financial performance
Risk Oversight 
and Compliance 
Council
Authorised by the Board to assist the 
Audit & Risk Committee in overseeing 
the risk management and internal control 
activities of the Group
Corporate 
Executive Team
Supports the CEO in managing our 
business and activities
Risk Management 
and Compliance 
Boards
Ensure that appropriate internal controls for 
effective risk management are implemented
Business units
Responsible for identifying, assessing  
and managing risks within their business
Accountability for monitoring
Responsibility for implementing
Independent Business Monitoring
Independent Assurance
Risk
Management
Discipline and
Enforcement
Written
Standards
& Controls
Training
Communication
Management
Monitoring
Responding
to Problems
Enterprise Oversight
GSK Values
Business 
Activities
Key
      Individual Accountability
      Line Management Accountability with Compliance
      Business Management Accountability with Compliance
      Audit & Assurance
Our internal control 
framework, in conjunction 
with our values, helps to 
ensure that we effectively 
manage risks as we conduct 
our business activities.
We are subject to 
inspections and audits 
conducted by external 
parties, including regulatory 
agencies, to assess the 
adequacy of our internal 
control framework. We 
actively address findings 
from these activities and 
take appropriate corrective 
actions to improve our 
internal controls across  
the Group.
Figure 1: Governance structure of risk management
Figure 2: Our control framework
18 GSK Annual Report 2013 Tax and treasury
Failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to 
treasury activities.
Crisis and continuity management
Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following  
a disruption or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner 
regardless of cause.
Financial reporting and disclosure
Non-compliance with financial reporting and disclosure requirements 
or changes to the recognition of income and expenses.
Information protection
Risk to the Group's business activity if critical or sensitive computer 
systems or information are not available when needed, are accessed 
by those not authorised, or are deliberately changed or corrupted.
Intellectual property
Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual 
property rights.
Supply chain continuity
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product.
Product quality
Failure to ensure product quality throughout manufacturing 
and distribution processes resulting in non-compliance with 
good manufacturing practice (GMP) and regulations.
Environment, health and safety and sustainability
Failure to ethically manage environment, health and safety and 
sustainability consistent with company objectives, policies and 
relevant laws and regulations.
Principal risks
Each year, CET reviews the risks facing the 
Group and agrees a list of the most significant 
risks - referred to as Principal risks - that require 
particular attention from a Group perspective 
including those that could cause our actual results 
to differ materially from expected and historical 
results. A summary of our Principal risks is set 
out below, while a full description of each risk is 
presented in  Risk factors' on pages 232 to 241.
In addition, CET considers how each of  
the Principal risks could interact across  
the company and have a compound impact.  
Specific accountability is assigned to 
designated individuals responsible for 
developing the overall Group approach to  
those Principal risks identified as having  
a particular exposure in this regard.
The work of CET and ARC is supported by the 
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC), 
whose membership comprises senior executives 
representing the various business units and global 
support functions making up GSK. 
It is the responsibility of ROCC to ensure each 
area of the business has robust processes in 
place to identify risks, assign clear accountability, 
and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls 
and mitigation plans. Processes are in place 
to ensure business units and global support 
functions escalate significant operational 
compliance issues, internal and external audit 
results, and investigations to ROCC and  
then onward to ARC in a timely manner. 
We expect our third parties to uphold the  
same high standards we set for ourselves  
and establish appropriate governance to help 
ensure that our expectations are met.
Risk management within the business
Operational day-to-day management of risk 
rests within the business. We are committed 
to being a responsible, values-based business 
and management is responsible for embedding 
this into our culture, decision making and how 
we work. 
The Principal risks listed below are those we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.  
They are not listed in order of significance. A full description of risk definition, context, potential impact and mitigating activities is set out on  
pages 232 to 241 in  Risk factors'.
Each business unit and global support 
function maintains a Risk Management and 
Compliance Board (RMCB). The purpose of 
the RMCBs is to identify specific operational, 
legal, and compliance risks that may affect the 
achievement of business objectives and to 
help ensure that appropriate internal controls 
are implemented. The relevant CET members 
accountable for different parts of the business 
each present an annual report to ROCC  
and ARC. 
Our Global Risk Officer and Global Ethics and 
Compliance team are responsible for supporting 
the effective integration of risk management 
into our business units and global support 
functions. Audit & Assurance is responsible 
for independently assessing the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the management of risk areas 
and reporting outcomes to ROCC and ARC. 
These groups maintain independent reporting 
lines outside of business management. 
Commercial practices and scientific engagement
Failure to engage in commercial and/or scientific activities that are 
consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or company 
requirements relating to marketing and communications about our 
medicines and associated therapeutic areas; appropriate interactions 
with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients; and legitimate  
and transparent transfer of value.
Research practices
Failure to protect and inform patients involved in human clinical  
trial research; conduct objective, ethical preclinical and clinical trials 
using sound scientific principles; guarantee the integrity of discovery, 
preclinical, and clinical development data; manage human biological 
samples according to established ethical standards and regulatory 
expectations; treat animals ethically and practice good animal 
welfare; appropriately disclose human subject research for medicinal 
products; and ensure the integrity of our regulatory filings and of  
the data that we publish.
Patient safety
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow-up, or report adverse 
events from all potential sources. This could compromise the 
Group's ability to conduct robust safety signal detection and 
interpretation and to ensure that appropriate decisions are taken 
with respect to the risk/benefit profile of the Group's products, 
including the completeness and accuracy of product labels and  
the pursuit of additional studies/analyses, as appropriate.
Anti-bribery and corruption
Failure to foster a culture within the company in which bribery 
and corruption are unacceptable; adopt measures and embed 
procedures to prevent bribery and corruption by employees, 
complementary workers and through third party interactions; 
investigate allegations of bribery and corruption and remediate 
issues identified; and comply with applicable ABAC legislation.
 GSK Annual Report 2013 19