 corporate governance  
The Group is committed to, and the Board is
accountable for, high standards of corporate
governance. This statement describes how the
principles of corporate governance are applied 
to the Group and outlines the Group's compliance
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code prepared in 1998 by the Committe e
on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald
Hampel. The Group will report its compliance
under the 2003 Combined Code next year.
Throughout the year ended 31st March 2004 the
Group has been in compliance with the provisions
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing
Authority except that, for part of the year, Mr M. V.
Cheek, a non-independent non-executive director,
was a member of the Remuneration Committee
and the appointments of some of the executive
directors continue to reflect contracts requiring 
the giving of more than twelve months notice 
of intention to terminate by the Company. The
Remuneration Committee believes that such
longer notice period is often required to retain
high calibre executives serving on the Company's
Board. The procedures necessary to implement 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee (Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code) were in place throughout the year.
Board
The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive
Chairman, three other non-executive directors, the
Chief Executive and three other executive directors.
Three of the non-executive appointments are
considered independent, being Mr K. G. Edelman
(Non-Executive Chairman), Dr P. J. Williamson
(senior non-executive director), and Mr P. S. Jensen.
Biographies appear on page 16 which demonstrate
a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring
independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct
which is vital to the success of the Group.
Non-executive directors are appointed on a three
year rolling basis or until age 65, as appropriate.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the
proper management of the Group. A statement 
of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the
accounts is set out on page 52 and a statement 
on going concern is given on page 29.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decision. All directors
have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and that applicable rules and regulations
are complied with. The appointment and removal
of the Company Secretary is a matter for the 
Board as a whole. The Non-Executive Chairman,
in conjunction with the Human Resources
department, ensures that the directors receive
appropriate training as necessary.
The Board meets at least six times per year,
reviewing trading performance, ensuring 
adequate funding, setting and monitoring 
strategy and examining major acquisition
possibilities. The non-executive directors have
a particular responsibility to ensure that the
strategies proposed by the executive directors are
fully considered. To enable the Board to discharge
its duties, all directors receive appropriate and
timely information. Briefing papers are distributed
by the Company Secretary to all directors in
advance of Board Meetings. The Non-Executive
Chairman ensures that the directors take
independent professional advice as required.
The record of attendance of individual directors 
at Board meetings held during the year (7) is as
follows:
Meetings attended:
K.G. Edelman 7
M.V. Cheek 6
S.D. Erlanger 7
I.L. Hamilton 7
L.M.S. Knox
1
3
P.S. Jensen
2
4
P.A. Neep 7
Dr P.J. Nelson 7
Dr P.J. Williamson 6
1
retired in September 2003
2
appointed in June 2003
17 glenmorangie plc
54096 Glen Back  26/5/04  4:27 pm  Page 3 18 glenmorangie plc
corporate governance  
Remuneration Committee
This Committee, comprised entirely of non-
executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It is responsible for reviewing and endorsing 
the senior management and organisational
structure, reviewing and being satisfied with
the arrangements for succession planning and
management development, determining the
remuneration of the executive directors and
reporting where appropriate to the Board. For
these purposes, remuneration  means all terms 
of an employment package, including contractual
terms, salary, pension arrangements, participation
in share option schemes, profit sharing and
incentive remuneration schemes and all other
bonuses and benefits. The Committee is advised
by a leading firm of remuneration consultants.
Further details of the Group's policies on
remuneration, service contracts and compensation
payments are given in the Directors' Remuneration
Report on pages 22 to 28.
Audit Committee
This Committee is appointed by the Board 
from amongst the non-executive directors and
normally meets twice a year. It provides a forum
for reporting by the Group's external and internal
auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation,
by the Finance Director.
The Committee assists the Board in observing 
its responsibility for ensuring that the Group's
financial and accounting systems provide accurate
and up-to-date information on its current financial
position and that the Group's published financial
statements present a true and fair reflection of this
position. It ensures that appropriate accounting 
policies, controls and compliance procedures are 
in place, advises the Board on the appointment of
external auditors and on their remuneration and
discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit
with external auditors. It also keeps under review
the cost effectiveness and the independence and
objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
Nomination Committee
This Committee is responsible for nominating for
approval of the Board candidates for appointment
to the Board, having regard to the balance and
structure of the Board. It comprises the Non-
Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive of the
Group and two other non-executive directors.
In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants 
are used to assist the process.
Members of the above Committees are detailed 
on page 54.
The number of sub-committee meetings during
the year and record of attendance of individual
directors as relevant is disclosed in the table
below.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high
priority. The Finance Director's Review on pages 12
and 13 includes a detailed review of the business
and future developments. There is regular dialogue
with institutional shareholders including
presentations after the Group's preliminary
announcement of the year end results and at the
half year.
Final Interim 
Results Results
Audit Remuneration Nomination Approval Approval
Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
No. of Meetings Held 2 3 1 1 1
Attendance:
K.G. Edelman 2 3 1 1 1
M.V. Cheek n/a 3* n/a n/a n/a
I.L. Hamilton 2* n/a 1* 1 1
P .S. Jensen 1 1 1 n/a n/a
L.M.S. Knox 1 2 n/a n/a n/a
P .A. Neep n/a 3* 1 1 1
Dr P.J. Williamson 2 2 1 n/a n/a
* by invitation only
54096 Glen Back  26/5/04  4:27 pm  Page 4 19 glenmorangie plc
corporate governance  
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting 
to communicate with private and institutional
investors and welcomes their participation.
The Non-Executive Chairman aims to ensure that
the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees are available at Annual General
Meetings to answer questions. Details of
resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting on 25th June 2004 can be found in the
Notice of Meeting incorporated within this Report,
which, in accordance with the Combined Code,
has been issued to shareholders at least 20 working
days in advance of such Meeting. In line with the
requirements of the Combined Code, the results 
of proxies are disclosed at the Annual General
Meeting.
Internal Controls
The Board has overall responsibility for
establishing, maintaining and reviewing the
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. The Board has
established processes to ensure that all material
risks are identified and thereafter systematically
managed.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval
of the acc o u n t s, the Group has continued to operate
procedures which were established to comply
with the Turnbull Committee's Final Guidance 
on Internal Control issued on 27th October 1999.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring
that risk and control matrices are established,
updated and reviewed on an annual basis. As head
of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary also
ensures that an internal audit programme is
operated and the results reported regularly to the
Audit Committee and senior executive directors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control 
as it has operated during the year and reported 
its conclusions to the Board.
The principal features of the internal control
system and the process applied in reviewing 
its effectiveness are as follows:
 
a clearly defined organisation structure and
limits of authority;
 
corporate policies for financial reporting,
accounting, financial risk management,
information security, project appraisal and
corporate governance;
  terms of reference for the Board and its sub-
committees, including a schedule of matters
reserved for the Board and an agreed annual
programme of fixed agenda items for Board
approval;
  Group-wide policy manuals setting out 
agreed standards and control procedures.
These include personnel-related policies,
a code of ethics, an environmental policy 
and guidelines for dealings by directors and
relevant employees;
 
annual budgets and long-term business
plans, identifying key risks and opportunities,
underpinned by a 5-year strategic plan;
 
risk and control matrices which are approved 
by the Board on an annual basis as part of the
annual planning process;
  review by the Board annually of the Group risk
assessment report;
  review by the Board of the role of insurance 
in managing risk across the Group;
  regular reporting and monitoring of financial
performance, using weekly operating statistics
and monthly management accounts which
highlight key performance indicators and
variances on budgets and forecasts, with
regular reports to the Board at its meetings;
 
regular reporting on operational performance
against targets; and
 
an Audit Committee which approves audit
plans and deals with significant control issues
raised in the external audit and internal audits
and reports the outcome of its meetings to the
Board with the Board receiving minutes of such
meetings.
54096 Glen Back  26/5/04  4:27 pm  Page 5