 GLOBAL NATURAL ENERGY PLC
10
Corporate Governance
Corporate governance
There is a commitment to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group. The Board
is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below
describe how the principles identified in the former Combined Code are applied by the Group.
The Directors intend that the Company and the Group will comply with the revised Combined Code
on Corporate Governance which applies to reporting year beginning on or after 1 November 2003,
and will develop procedures which will ensure that, where the Board considers it appropriate, the
relevant requirements are met.
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors, which during the year ended 31 December
2003 comprised of five Executive Directors, and three Non-Executive Directors all of whom are
considered by the Board to be independent. J G West is the senior independent Non-Executive
Director. The biographies of all the Directors are set out on page 7. The Chairman is primarily
responsible for the efficient working of the Board. He ensures that all Directors receive sufficient
relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. The Chief Executive
is responsible for the implementation of the strategy and policy set by the Board and the day-to-day
management of the business.
During the past year the Board has met formally on seven occasions and at other times as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters, which are specifically reserved for its decision. The Board
is responsible for inter alia, overall Group strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure;
statutory matters; approval of financial statements; appointments and terminations of Directors, officers
and auditors; appointment of committees and setting of terms of reference; review and approval of
Group performance against budgets; approving risk management strategy and material contracts; and
determining of authority levels within which management is required to operate.
The Board of Directors has agreed that, if necessary, a Director may in the furtherance of his duties
seek independent professional advice at the Company's expense. Directors also have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary. All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders
at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment. Although not formally required in
accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board has resolved that all Directors will be subject to
re-election by rotation at least every three years. Except for the contract of service for D L Woods,
which is for an initial fixed term of two years commencing on 9 August 2002 to enable the integration
of Petrol Express Limited into the Group, none of the other Executive Directors has a contract of
service of more than twelve months' duration. 
The Board has established three standing committees - the Audit Committee, Remuneration
Committee and Nominations Committee. The Committees operate within separate defined terms of
reference. 
Meetings with Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman holds meetings as required with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive
Directors being present.
Board performance evaluation
In accordance with the requirements of the revised Combined Code, the Board intends to undertake
during 2004 a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its
committees and individual Directors. The 2004 Annual Report, to be published in 2005, will state how
this performance evaluation has been conducted.   GLOBAL NATURAL ENERGY PLC
11
Directors' Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee comprises the senior independent Non-Executive Director, J G West
(Chairman), Lord Chandos and D C Port. The Committee meets at least twice a year to consider
and determine the remuneration, whether by way of salary or otherwise, of the Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive attends the meetings of the Committee to discuss the performance of other
Executive Directors and makes proposals as necessary, but he is not present when his own
remuneration is being considered. The Committee has access to professional advice from inside and
outside the Company.
The Report of the Board to the shareholders on Directors' Remuneration is set out on pages 13 to 16
and includes details of the Directors' service contracts.
Relations with Shareholders 
There is regular dialogue with institutional and individual shareholders. The Company responds
promptly to inquiries received orally or in writing from individual shareholders on a variety of topics.
All shareholders are normally given at least twenty working days' notice of the Annual General Meeting
at which the Chairman of the Company, and the Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees are available for questions. 
Accountability and Audit
Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the Group are included in the Chairman's
Statement and Chief Executive's Review on pages 3 and 4, respectively. The Directors' responsibilities
for the financial statements are described on page 17.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and the system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group's significant risks that
has been in place for the period from 1 January 2003 up to the date of approval of the Annual Report
and Accounts. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control
guidance for directors forming part of the Combined Code. As part of the year end process the Board
has reviewed the Group's system of internal control for the financial year.
The Board has considered the risks to the Group and the principal features of the Group's system of
internal control are as follows:
An established management structure comprising the Board, with its committees, and senior
managers.
As might be expected in a Group of this size, which is highly entrepreneurial, a key control
procedure is the day-to-day involvement of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and
other Executive Directors. 
The Board reviews quarterly financial and management information for the Group and each of
the operating companies and receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and other
Executive Directors. It also undertakes, inter alia, a detailed review of major transactions and
approves new investments.
The vast majority of the Group's customers pay in cash or by credit card. Credit insurance is
used to mitigate the risk of irrecoverability of the major portion of trade debtors. 
Although the Group does not currently have an internal audit function, the Board reviews the need
for this additional control on a regular basis, taking into account the size of the Group and the nature
of its operations. Corporate Governance continued
GLOBAL NATURAL ENERGY PLC
12
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises solely Non-Executive Directors. The senior independent Non-Executive
Director, J G West, is the Committee Chairman, and serves with Lord Chandos and D C Port. The
Committee meets at least twice a year. At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the external
auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other Executive Directors attend the
meetings. The Committee overviews the monitoring of the Group's internal controls, accounting
policies and financial reporting and other matters as may be required by the Board.
Following the introduction of the revised Combined Code, the Terms of Reference of the Committee
will be expanded and will be published on the Company's web-site.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises solely Non-Executive Directors. The senior independent
Non-Executive Director, J G West, is Committee Chairman and serves with Lord Chandos and D C Port.
This Committee discusses and agrees any proposed nomination, which is then put forward for
approval by the Board.
Going concern
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly the Directors continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Compliance Statement
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions
throughout the accounting period. Save for the limited exceptions outlined below, the Company has
complied throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2003 with the provisions as set out
in Section 1 of the former Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing
Authority.
A.1.6 No formal training is provided to Directors on the first occasion that they are appointed
to the Board. Discussions are held between the new Director and the Company
Secretary during which the new Director is provided with written documentation
concerning his or her responsibilities as a director of a listed company. On the
appointment of any future Directors, if the Company considers it necessary to provide
the new Director with formal training, appropriate arrangements will be made.
A.6.2 Although not formally required in accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board
has resolved that all Directors will be subject to re-election by rotation every three years.
All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General
Meeting after their appointment.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
J P Gorman FCA
Company Secretary
27 April 2004