 14
Annual Report
2005
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and this
report outlines where the Company has complied with the provisions of the
revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in July 2003, which applies to listed companies with a
financial year beginning on or after 1 November 2003 (the Code). 
Compliance with Code provisions
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate
governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles of
governance have been applied by the Company. Throughout the year the
Company has been in compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code with
the following exceptions:
The Remuneration and Audit Committees comprise only two Non-executive
Directors and not three, as recommended by code provision A3.2. The Board
considers its current composition to be appropriate given the size and lack 
of complexity of the Group's operations.
The Company does not have an established Nomination Committee with
responsibility for proposing board nominees, as recommended by code
provisions A4.1 to A4.6. It is not considered appropriate to add to the current
Board and the current composition of the Board is appropriate to the size and
complexity of the Group's operations. Matters that would be considered by 
a Nomination Committee are considered by the Board. Should the Chairman
consider that the Board composition should change then he will appoint 
a Nomination Committee at that time.
Application of principles of good governance
The Board
The Directors believe it is essential that the Company is led and controlled by
an effective Board. Until December 2004, the Board consisted of four executive
members and two Non-executive independent members. Since December 2004,
the Board has consisted of three executive members and two Non-executive
independent members. The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper
management of the Group.
In order to ensure its effectiveness, the Board meets regularly (at least five
times a year) and has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for 
its decision. The Board's main role is to create value to shareholders through
setting policies on matters such as overall strategy, financial performance,
budget approval, the framework of internal control and risk management. 
All Directors have access to independent professional advice if necessary, at 
the Company's expense, and to the services of the Company Secretary, who 
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that
applicable rules and procedures are complied with.
The Board receives a variety of information to enable it to discharge its
responsibilities. This includes monthly management accounts, performance
indicators, market research and other industry information. Receipt and review of
this information enables the Board to monitor the performance of management. 
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Board and all sub-committees
on an ongoing basis throughout the year and assesses the individual
performance of all Directors in consultation with the other Directors. 
It is the opinion of the Chairman that the performance of the Board, each 
sub-committee and each Director is effective and that all Directors demonstrate 
full commitment in their respective roles to the Group. The performance of the
Chairman is reviewed by the Non-executive Directors on an ongoing basis. 
Both Non-executive Directors have shareholdings in Glotel plc but the Chairman 
does not consider these to be of a material nature. The Chairman considers 
that Sir Robin Saxby and Glyn Hirsch are independent in accordance with 
Code provision A3.1.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the annual general
meeting following their appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more
than three years.
Directors' remuneration
Details of Directors' remuneration, and the process for its determination, 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 20.
Board Committees
The Board has formally established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two Non-executive independent
Directors and meets as necessary. It is chaired by Sir Robin Saxby. The
Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on 
the Group's policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors, including
pension rights and any compensation for loss of office.
The Audit Committee consists of the two Non-executive independent Directors
and is chaired by Glyn Hirsch, a qualified chartered accountant with recent and
relevant financial experience. It meets bi-annually with the external auditors
and this provides a regular line of communication between the Board and the
Group's auditors. The Group Finance Director and other executives are in
attendance at meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by
the Audit Committee for it to operate effectively is available. Members of the
Audit Committee meet with the Group's auditors at least once a year, without
any executive Directors being present. The Audit Committee reviews financial
statements to be published externally before submission to the Board, to
ensure they present a fair assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
The Committee's terms of reference also include review and consideration of
the Group's accounting policies including authorising any changes, and to
consider the scope and results of the external audit. The Audit Committee seeks
to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Group's auditors
and in this regard, monitors the level of non-audit work undertaken for the
Group. A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the Group's
auditors during the year is set out in note 5 to the financial statements. 15
Annual Report
2005
Corporate Governance continued
There were six Board meetings, two Remuneration Committee meetings and
two Audit Committee meetings held in the year. The following table details the
number of meetings attended by each Board and Board Committee member. 
Remuneration Audit Committee
Name Position Board meetings Committee meetings meetings
Les Clark Chairman 6 N/A N/A
Andy Baker Chief Executive 6 N/A N/A
Officer
Alan Saffer Group Finance 5 N/A 2*
Director
Sir Robin Saxby Senior 
Non-executive 6 2 2
Independent 
Director
Glyn Hirsch Non-executive 
Independent 6 2 2
Director
*Attended by invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Sean Cheek, who resigned from his position as an Executive Director on 
9 December 2004, attended three Board meetings.
Internal control
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Group's system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Considerable importance is placed upon the maintenance of a strong control
environment, with a simple organisational structure and clearly drawn lines 
of accountability and authority. 
The key elements of the Group's internal control system are:
 A culture of quality and integrity is promoted throughout the Group.
  Clearly defined delegation of responsibilities to committees of the Board 
and to operating units including authorisation levels. Each Executive Director
has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
 Comprehensive monthly reporting by operating units to the Board,
covering financial performance and key business indicators such as
placements per interview.
 A comprehensive annual budgeting process, in which operating units
prepare budgets for the forthcoming year which are approved locally and
at a Group Board level. Actual results are compared to approved budgets,
with variances monitored and investigated.
  Extensive close involvement by the executive Directors and Group
management in the day-to-day operations of the business units.
 The Directors monitor the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control. The Audit Committee receives reports on reviews of the system 
of internal control performed by management. The external auditors
report to the Audit Committee on the system of internal control to 
the extent that their audit work included testing of the system.
The close involvement of management in the day-to-day operations has
enabled the Group to react quickly to the difficult market conditions over the
past few years. This ensured that the Group reduced costs with revenues by
reducing headcount and overheads accordingly. As the recovery takes place,
the Board is cautiously investing in the business to take advantage of the
improved market, and we are employing additional recruiting and sales staff.
There are strict controls in place however, to ensure that we obtain the
appropriate balance between investment and profit growth. 
In compliance with the Combined Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group's system of internal control and confirms that it has performed 
a review of its effectiveness for the year ended 31 March 2005. The Board's
monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance
controls. It is based primarily on reviewing reports from management and from
close involvement in the operations to consider whether significant weaknesses
are promptly remedied. An overall assessment was performed for the purpose
of the annual report. The Board has also reviewed the need for an internal
audit function, but considered this to be unnecessary, given the size and lack 
of complexity of the Group's operations, and the close involvement of the 
executive Directors in its day-to-day operations.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Group publishes
and sends an annual report and accounts and interim report to shareholders.
Further, the Group also has a website (www.glotel.com) which contains 
up-to-date information on the Group's activities and published financial results. 
The Board is committed to regular dialogue with institutional shareholders
including presentations after the announcement of year end and 
interim results.
The Board views the annual general meeting as a valuable opportunity to
communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their
participation. All Board members attend the annual general meeting and 
in particular, the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are
available to answer questions.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the Group's forecasted working capital
requirements for the forthcoming financial year, its medium term plans and its
financing facilities, and concluded that the Group has the financial resources
required to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and 
for this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.