 Glotel Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18
Job:	 7083	Glotel_AR_BACK.indd	 Proof:	 06	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Amy		 Date:	 27/07/06	
Server:	 Studio	l	 Set-up:	 Amy	 First	Read/Revisions
Corporate Governan Ce The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance 
and this report outlines where the Company has complied with the 
provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 (the Code).
Complian Ce with Code provisions The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good 
corporate governance and this statement describes how the relevant 
principles of governance have been applied by the Company. 
Throughout the year the Company has been in compliance with 
Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exception:
The Company established a Nomination Committee in September 
2006 with responsibility for proposing board nominees. The 
Company did not have a Nomination Committee prior to this time 
and was thus not compliant with code provisions A4.1 to A4.6, 
which recommends a Nomination Committee exist for the entire 
year. Prior to the establishment of the Nomination Committee, 
matters that would be considered by a Nomination Committee 
were considered by the Board.
a ppli Cation of prin Ciples of Good Governan Ce The Board
The Directors believe it is essential that the Company is led and 
controlled by an effective Board. The Board consists of three Executive 
Directors and two Non-executive Independent Directors and is 
responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
In order to ensure its effectiveness, the Board meets regularly and has 
a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. The 
Board's main role is to create value to shareholders through setting 
policies on matters such as overall strategy, financial performance, 
budget approval, the framework of internal control and risk 
management. All Directors have access to independent professional 
advice if necessary, at the Company's expense, and to the services of 
the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed and that applicable rules and procedures are 
complied with.
The Board receives a variety of information to enable it to discharge  
its responsibilities. This includes monthly management accounts, 
performance indicators, market research and other industry 
information. Receipt and review of this information enables the  
Board to monitor the performance of management.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Board and all 
subcommittees on an ongoing basis throughout the year and assesses 
the individual performance of all Directors in consultation with the other 
Directors. It is the opinion of the Chairman that the performance of the 
Board, each sub-committee and each Director is effective and that all 
Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles to the 
Group. The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the Non-
executive Directors on an ongoing basis. Both Non-executive Directors 
have shareholdings in Glotel Plc but the Chairman does not consider these 
to be of a material nature. The Chairman considers that Sir Robin Saxby 
and Glyn Hirsch are independent in accordance with Code provision A3.1.
 
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter at 
intervals of no more than three years.
direc Tors' remunera Tion
Details of Directors' remuneration, and the process for its 
determination, are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Board commiTTees
The Board has formally established Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two Non-executive 
Independent Directors and meets as necessary. It is chaired by  
Sir Robin Saxby. The Committee has responsibility for making 
recommendations to the Board on the Group's policy for the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors, including pension rights  
and any compensation for loss of office.
The Audit Committee consists of the two Non-executive Independent 
Directors and is chaired by Glyn Hirsch, a qualified chartered 
accountant with recent and relevant financial experience. It meets  
bi-annually with the external auditors and this provides a regular line 
of communication between the Board and the Group's auditors. The 
Group Finance Director and other executives are in attendance at 
meetings by invitation in order to ensure that all the information 
required by the Audit Committee for it to operate effectively is 
available. Members of the Audit Committee meet with the Group's 
auditors at least once a year, without any Executive Directors being 
present. The Audit Committee reviews financial statements to be 
published externally before submission to the Board, to ensure they 
present a fair assessment of the Group's position and prospects. The 
Committee's terms of reference also include review and consideration 
of the Group's accounting policies including authorising any changes, 
considers the scope and results of the external audit and reviews the 
internal financial control procedures. The Audit Committee seeks to 
ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Group's 
auditors and in this regard, monitors the level of non-audit work 
undertaken for the Group. A breakdown of the audit and non-audit 
fees paid to the Group's auditors during the year is set out in note 4  
to the financial statements.
In September 2005, a Nomination Committee was established with  
the specific remit of identifying and nominating a new Non-executive 
Director. The committee consists of Sir Robin Saxby and Glyn Hirsch, 
with Sir Robin Saxby appointed as Chairman.
There were 20 Board meetings, one Remuneration Committee meeting 
and two Audit Committee meetings held in the year. The following 
table details the number of meetings attended by each Board and 
Board Committee member. Glotel Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19
Alan Saffer, who resigned from his position as Group Finance Director 
and Company Secretary on 15 November 2005, attended 12 Board 
meetings, no Remuneration Committee meetings and one Audit 
Committee meeting.
inTernal con Trol
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Group's 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Considerable importance is placed upon the maintenance of a strong 
control environment, with a simple organisational structure and clearly 
drawn lines of accountability and authority.
The key elements of the Group's internal control system are:
A culture of quality and integrity is promoted throughout the Group.
Clearly defined delegation of responsibilities to committees of the 
Board and to operating units including authorisation levels. Each 
Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects 
of the Group's affairs.
Comprehensive monthly reporting by operating units to the Board, 
covering financial performance and key business indicators such as 
placements per interview and client meetings.
A comprehensive annual budgeting process, in which operating 
units prepare budgets for the forthcoming year which are approved 
locally and at a Group Board level. Actual results are compared to 
approve budgets, with variances monitored and investigated.
Extensive close involvement by the Executive Directors and Group 
management in the day-to-day operations of the operating units.
The Directors monitor the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control. The Audit Committee receives reports on reviews of the system 
of internal control performed by management. The external auditors 
report to the Audit Committee on the system of internal control to the 
extent that their audit work included testing of the system.
 
 
 
 
 
 
In compliance with the Combined Code, the Board reviews the 
effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control and confirms 
that it has performed a review of its effectiveness for the year ended 
31 March 2006. The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls. It is based primarily  
on reviewing reports from management and from close involvement  
in the operations to consider whether significant weaknesses are 
promptly remedied. An overall assessment was performed for the 
purpose of the annual report. The Board has also reviewed the need for 
an internal audit function, but considered this to be unnecessary, given 
the size and lack of complexity of the Group's operations, and the close 
involvement of the Executive Directors in its day-to-day operations.
r ela Tions wi Th shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Group 
publishes and sends an annual report and accounts and interim report 
to shareholders. Further, the Group also has a website (www.glotel.com) 
which contains up-to-date information on the Group's activities and 
published financial results.
The Board is committed to regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders including presentations after the announcement  
of year-end and interim results.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as a valuable opportunity 
to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes 
their participation. All Board members attend the Annual General 
Meeting and in particular, the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees are available to answer questions.
Goin G concern
The Directors have reviewed the Group's forecasted working capital 
requirements for the forthcoming financial year, its medium term plans 
and its financing facilities, and concluded that the Group has the 
financial resources required to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future, and for this reason they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
    Remuneration Audit Nomination
   Board Committee Committee Committee
Name Position meetings meetings meetings meetings
Les Clark Chairman 20 1* - 2*
Andy Baker Chief Executive Officer 14 - - -
Jonathan Brooks Group Finance Director 8 - 1* -
Sir Robin Saxby Senior Non-executive Independent Director 8 1 2 2
Glyn Hirsch Non-executive Independent Director 8 1 2 2
* Attended by invitation of the Chairman of the relevant Committee.