 20
Application of principles
The Group is committed to applying the best principles of Corporate Governance. The Compliance
Statement is given under the Combined Code 2006 issued by the FRC (the combined code).
Compliance statement
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code.
Board composition
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors. The Board comprises the non-executive
Chairman and two other non-executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer and one other executive Director. The Board's main roles are to create value for shareholders,
to approve the Company's strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other
resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives. Specific responsibilities
reserved to the Board include: setting Group strategy, reviewing operational and financial
performance, approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approving
appointments to the Board and the Company Secretary, approving policies relating to Directors
remuneration and the severance of Directors' contracts; and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue
takes place with shareholders.
The executive Directors of the Board are:
Rakesh V Patel
Ajay M Patel
Ram Swamy
All the above executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and at the
first AGM after appointment.
The non-executive Directors are Nick Woollacott, Paul Edwards MBE and Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM,
who is also Chairman of the Group.
Nick Woollacott is the Senior independent non-executive Director and also chairs the Audit Committee.
Paul Edwards MBE is another independent non-executive Director and also chairs the Remuneration
Committee.
The Board met 9 times during the year under review. At each meeting the Board receives reports from
the Chief Executive Officer and other Directors and senior management as required.
The Board has three Committees, whose terms of reference can be inspected by prior arrangement at
Goldshield's office in Croydon.
Audit Committee
Nick Woollacott (Chairman)
Paul Edwards MBE
The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing the external audit arrangements, including the
scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit, any changes in accounting policies and
procedures, the judgmental decisions affecting financial reporting, compliance with accounting
standards and with the Companies Act and considering the auditors' comments on internal controls
and management's response. The Audit Committee monitors the nature and extent of non-audit
services provided by the auditors to ensure their independence and objectivity is maintained.
Nick Woollacott is a member of the Audit Committee of an AIM listed company and has past
experience as a member of Audit committees of listed companies. The Board is of the opinion that
Nick Woollacott satisfies the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by invitation by representatives of the Group's auditors,
Corporate Governance Report 21
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Committee considers the Group's annual and interim financial statements and any questions
raised by the auditors on the statements and financial systems.
During the year, the Audit Committee met twice and reviewed the Group's draft financial statements
and interim results statement prior to Board approval and considered the external auditors' detailed
reports thereon. The Committee also reviewed the performance of the in-house internal audit
function. The audit plan is independently drawn up by the in-house internal audit department and
discussed with the Audit Committee for adequacy of coverage. The Audit Committee also directs the
internal audit department to carry out specific assignments. The internal audit reports are given to
the operating heads, and are also independently discussed with the Audit Committee for their
feedback and suggestions which are then implemented upon.
The Group's auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP , provide some non-audit services. The majority of
these are compliance services on various taxation issues within the Group, and do not compromise
their independence as auditors. The level of non-audit fees (which are less than the audit fees) are
reviewed annually by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee
Paul Edwards MBE (Chairman)
Nick Woollacott
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM, Group Chairman attends the meetings of the Remuneration Committee by
invitation.
The Remuneration Committee met twice in the financial year and determined the Directors'
remuneration and the issue of share options. None of the Committee members have any personal
financial interest in the matters to be decided, nor potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-
directorships nor any day to day involvement in the running of the business. The Committee consults
with the Board about its proposals and has access to professional advice from inside and outside
the Group.
Nomination Committee
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM (Chairman)
Nick Woollacott
Paul Edwards MBE
The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and recommend suitable candidates to the
Board for both executive and non-executive appointments. The selection process includes search
using external agencies. As at 31 March 2009, the number of non-executive Directors stood at 3,
complying with the provision of Combined Code 2006 issued by the FRC (the combined code).
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during
the year was as follows:
Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Name of the Director Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM - Chairman 9 / (9) 2 / (2)(*) 2 / (2)(*) 2 / (2)
Rakesh V Patel 9 / (9) 2 / (2)(*) n/a n/a
Ajay M Patel 9 / (9) n/a n/a n/a
Ram Swamy (w.e.f. 6 August 2008) 7 / (7) 1 / (1)(*) n/a n/a
Nick Woollacott 8 / (9) 2 / (2) 2 / (2) 2 / (2)
Paul Edwards MBE 9 / (9) 2 / (2) 2 / (2) 2 / (2)
Figure in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a Board member
Corporate Governance Report
(continued) n/a - indicates not applicable (*) Attendance by invitation
Shareholder relations
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer meet and telephone institutional shareholders to
discuss the Group's strategy and financial performance. Efforts are made to keep shareholders
informed through analysts' meetings, road shows and soundings taken from individual shareholders
as and when required.
All shareholders can gain access to information about the Group, including the annual report,
through the Goldshield website www.goldshieldplc.com.
Risk management and internal controls
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls. The intent
is to manage risk rather than eliminate it and controls cannot provide an absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. Decision on key issues is taken by the Board keeping in mind the
possible risks associated with the situation and ability of the Group to manage those risks effectively.
The key features of the Group's systems of internal controls are as follows:
  Control environment: short and direct lines of responsibility are designed to ensure that business
risks are communicated for prompt review. The performance of each business unit is reviewed at
regular monthly meetings. The full Board also reviews the same at regular Board meetings held at
least six times each year. A period of at least five days each year is set aside for strategic planning
and assessment of risks affecting the Group attended by senior managers from all parts of the
Group when matters of strategic importance are discussed with specific emphasis on training and
development. Further, the Board meets every quarter for a two day strategic meeting during which
the Board evaluates the strategic direction and performance of the Group.
  Operating procedures: key quality and financial controls are documented as operating procedures
setting out responsibilities and financial authority levels.
  Budgeting: a comprehensive budgeting procedure is followed. The Chief Financial Officer presents
an annual forecast at Group level for discussion and agreement by the Board.
  Information systems: the Group's accounting systems are backed up and scaleable to meet
business needs.
Sufficient precautions are taken to retain the processed data in an off-site location, which forms part
of the disaster recovery program followed by the Group. The Group has selected SAP as the
Enterprise Resource Planning software which is on schedule to be implemented by the end of the
calendar year.
A regular review takes place with the Group insurance brokers to assess the adequacy of the Group's
insurance cover in the face of operational and other risks of the business.
The Board fully recognises the importance of adopting appropriate risk and control measures. The
Group has initiated steps in introducing a risk management program with a requirement to have
specific risk management objectives for key associates. The Audit Committee has reviewed the annual
report from the in-house internal audit function and is satisfied with the scope and quality of audit work
taken up in different areas of operational controls and the work undertaken to compile a comprehensive
Risk Register. The Committee also reviews the internal audit reports keeping in mind the need to take
remedial actions on significant audit findings pursuant to C.2.1 of the Combined Code.
Going concern
After considering the plans of the Group for the forthcoming year and after making enquiries, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements. An explanation of the Group's cash flow position
at 31 March 2009 is set out on page 35.
Corporate Governance Report
(continued)
22