 11
 DIRECTORS' REPORTS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Introduction
The Board comprises eight Directors; the Audit Committee comprises the Company Secretary, (chairman), and three 
Board Directors. The Board and the Audit Committee fulfil the roles required for effective corporate governance and 
the Board considers that it has the right governance to execute its strategy to achieve its objectives.
The Board has always felt that it should be recognised that what may be appropriate for the larger company may 
not necessarily be so for the smaller company, a point raised previously in the Cadbury Code of Best Practice. Whilst 
conscious of its non-compliance with certain aspects of the revised Code as detailed below, it does not believe 
that at this stage in the Group's development and circumstances it is appropriate to change its own operational or 
governance structure with the sole objective of achieving compliance with the revised Code given that the Board's 
current corporate governance strategy has been accepted by a large majority of its shareholders.
In view of the Group' s present size and proven track record, non-executive directors are not thought to be appropriate, 
due to the time and cost likely to be involved and the lack of opportunity for adding significant value to the business. 
Part of the Board's policy for corporate governance, where considered appropriate, is to engage independent bodies 
comprising external consultants for independent expert opinion on various matters. As before, where it does not 
comply, the Board is happy to provide its explanations for not doing so on the basis that it believes that such non-
compliance is more appropriate to the shareholders' and the Group's long term interests.
Compliance statement under the UK Corporate Governance Code, revised October 2012
The Company is required to report on compliance throughout the year. In relation to all of the provisions except 
those mentioned below, the Company complied throughout the period.
The Group does not comply with aspects of the Code's requirements under paragraphs A4, B1, and C3 in terms of 
having either a senior independent director or other non-executive directors on the Board and the requirement to 
have non-executive directors on the Audit Committee. It does not have a Remuneration Committee or a Nominations 
Committee as required under paragraphs B2 and D2.
The roles of the Chairman in running the Board and the Managing Director in running the Group's businesses are 
well understood. It is not considered necessary to have written job descriptions. This is contrary to paragraph A2.1. 
The Chairman and Managing Director do not retire by rotation, which is contrary to paragraph B7 of the Code.
There is no formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which is contrary to paragraph A1.1.
The Board
During the year, the Board met formally twelve times, and details of attendees at these meetings are set out below:
J. W. Goodwin (Chairman) ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
R. S. Goodwin (Managing Director) ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
J. Connolly ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
M. S. Goodwin ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
A. J. Baylay ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
S. R. Goodwin ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
S. C. Birks ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
B. R. E. Goodwin ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 12 out of 12 attended
The Chairman and Managing Director do not retire by rotation. With this exception, all Directors retire at the first 
Annual General Meeting after their initial appointment and then by rotation at least every three years.
The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and control of the Group and, whilst there is no formal schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board, all acquisitions and disposals of assets, investments and material capital-related 
projects are, as a matter of course, specifically reserved for Board decision.
The Board meets regularly with an agenda to discuss corporate strategy; to formulate and monitor the progress of 
business plans for all subsidiaries and to identify, evaluate and manage the business risks faced. The management 
philosophy of the Group is to operate its subsidiaries on an autonomous basis, subject to overall supervision and 
evaluation by the Board, with formally defined areas of responsibility and delegation of authority. The Group has 
formal lines of reporting in place with subsidiary management meeting with the Board on a regular basis. Regular 
informal meetings are also held to enable all members of the Board to discuss relevant issues with local management 
and staff at the business units.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is made up of the following: J. W. Goodwin, R. S. Goodwin, and J. Connolly as Board Directors, 
and P . Ashley (chairman) as Company Secretary and the Audit Committee reports to the Board. In view of the Group's 
size, proven track record, and close involvement in the day to day running of the business by the Board of Directors, 
non-executive directors are not thought to be appropriate. The Audit Committee has met formally four times since 
the issue of the Annual Report for the year ended 30th April, 2013, with all members attending each meeting. The 
responsibility of the Audit Committee is explained in the Audit Committee Report on pages 13 to 14. The Audit 
Committee takes into account the Company's corporate Mission Statement, objectives and strategy, and reviews 
investor correspondence and comments, regulatory changes, current issues and market trends. The Audit Committee 
uses expert opinion where considered appropriate. 12
 DIRECTORS' REPORTS 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT (continued)
Board evaluation
The Managing Director and Chairman address the development and training needs of the Board as a whole. An 
evaluation of the effectiveness and performance of the Board and the Directors of subsidiaries has been carried out 
by the Managing Director and Chairman, by way of personal discussions and individual performance evaluation.
All Directors have reasonable access to the Company Secretary and to independent professional advice at the 
Company's expense.
External audit
The external auditor is appointed annually at the Annual General Meeting. The Board, following review and 
recommendations received from the Audit Committee, considers the re-appointment of the auditor, and assesses on 
an annual basis the qualification, expertise, cost, independence and objectivity of the external auditor. In addition, 
the Audit Committee monitors the level of non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor to ensure 
that their independence is not compromised.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Corporate Governance Report confirm that, so far as 
they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware; and each 
Director has taken reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of internal controls and risk management which are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and provide reasonable reassurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The Board has primary responsibility for controlling: operational risks; financial risks including funding and 
capital spend; compliance risks; and political risks. The Audit Committee has been delegated responsibility for 
corporate reporting, financial risk management and to regularly review the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
controls together with consideration of any reports from the external auditor. The Audit Committee Report is on  
pages 13 to 14. Except as noted within this Corporate Governance Report, the Board confirms that the internal control 
systems comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group's main systems of internal controls includes regular visits and discussions between Board Directors and 
subsidiary management on all aspects of the business including financial reporting, risk reporting, and compliance 
reporting. In addition, there is Board representation with Goodwin PLC Directors on the boards of the subsidiaries. 
Any concerns are reported to the members of the Audit Committee and to the Board. The Group maintains a risk 
register, has business continuity programmes, and has insurance programmes that are all regularly reviewed. 
These procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report and accord with the FRC 
publication  Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code' . The Board considers that 
the close involvement of Board Directors in all areas of the day-to-day operations of the Group's business, including 
considering reports from management and discussions with senior personnel throughout the Group, represents the 
most effective control over its financial and business risks system, by providing an on-going process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group. In particular, authority is limited to Board Directors 
in key risk areas such as treasury management, capital expenditure and other investment decisions.
The close involvement of Board Directors in the day to day operations of the business ensures that the Board has the 
financial and non financial controls under constant review, and so it is not currently considered that formal Board 
reviews of these controls would provide any additional benefit in terms of the effectiveness of the Group's internal 
control systems.
The Board recognises the importance of an effective internal audit function to assist with the management and review 
of internal controls and business risk. The Internal Audit Department is currently in the process of being reformed due 
to a change in personnel and we are aiming to significantly enhance our capability in this area.  The Board Directors 
and senior management will continue to have close involvement on a day-to-day operational basis and the scope 
and results of internal audit work to be performed will be kept under review in the coming year.
The Board considers that certain functions are best carried out by independent external bodies with specific expertise, 
who then report to the Board directly or through the Audit Committee. T o further the Group' s commitment to maintaining 
strong corporate governance we can confirm that since the last annual report, we have appointed an international 
firm of accountants so that certain key business risk areas are reviewed by those skilled in business continuity and 
due process. Also during the year, the Board has commissioned external reviews of the Group's insurance, banking, 
property, and data protection by independent experts.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised of any material failures or weaknesses in the Group's internal 
control systems.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
J. W. Goodwin Ivy House Foundry,
Chairman Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent, ST1 3NR
 25th July, 2014