 20 Granby Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
As Granby Oil and Gas plc has an AIM listing rather than a full listing,  
it is not required to comply with the provisions of the New Combined 
Code (as annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority) relating to corporate governance. The Board supports high 
standards of corporate governance and intends to comply, as far as  
is practicable, with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
published in July 2003 and updated in June 2006 ( the Combined 
Code') and follows the recommendations on corporate governance  
of the Quoted Companies Alliance ( QCA'), in each case to the extent 
reasonable, in the Board's view, for a public company of Granby's 
current size and nature. With two exceptions (the requirement to 
appoint a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and the 
recommendation in the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees that the 
Chairman should not be a member of the Audit Committee) the Board 
considers that Granby Oil and Gas plc complied in all respects with 
the Combined Code for the year ended 31 March 2007. Decisions 
about these exceptions will be reviewed annually.
Board composition 
The Board comprises three Executive Directors (the Managing 
Director, the Finance Director and the Executive Director) and three 
Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is the Chairman. All of the Non-
Executive Directors are considered to be independent as they are free 
from any business relationship that would influence their independent 
judgement. Directors' biographies appear on page 17.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association one third  
of the Directors are required to retire by rotation each year and may 
seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and 
therefore each Director must stand for re-election at least once  
every three years. 
Role and working of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management 
of the Company. The Board formulates and agrees the overall 
corporate strategy and management of the individual businesses. 
Briefing papers are circulated on a timely basis on various routine 
matters and any issues where a decision is required. 
The Board has adopted and reviewed during the year a formal 
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision. The Directors have 
access to the advice of the Company Secretary and there is a 
procedure in place for them to seek independent legal and other 
professional advice, the cost of which would be met by the Company.
The Board met formally 11 times in this financial year, supplemented 
as necessary by tele-conference meetings. It is scheduled to meet 
formally 10 times in the current year, with additional meetings as 
required.
Board Committees
The Board has established a number of Committees to assist it 
in fulfilling its responsibilities. Terms of Reference for the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available in full  
on the Group's website www.granbyoil.com.
The Audit Committee has formal terms of reference approved by  
the Board. The Committee comprises all three Non-Executive 
Directors, Ric Piper, David Morton and its Chairman Adam Shutkever. 
Mr Shutkever has recent and relevant financial experience. In 
connection with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees, although 
the Chairman is currently a member of the Audit Committee he is not 
allowed to chair it and the Company is compliant with the requirement 
to have two independent Non-Executive Directors on the Committee. 
The Managing Director, the Finance Director and the external auditor 
also attend the meetings as required. The Committee is scheduled to 
meet at least twice a year, and met six times during the financial year. 
The Committee considers the financial statements of the Company 
and the statement of Resources and Reserves and prior to submission 
to the Board. The Committee reviews any reports from the external 
auditors and reviews the financial reporting and internal control 
procedures within the Company. The appointment of auditors and the 
level of fees payable for both audit and non-audit work are agreed by 
the Committee. See note 5 to the financial statements for further details.
The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference approved 
by the Board and comprises all three Non-Executive Directors,  
Ric Piper, Adam Shutkever and its Chairman David Morton. The 
Committee met twice during the financial year. The Committee is 
responsible for developing a remuneration policy for Directors and 
executives. Further details appear in the Remuneration Committee 
Report on pages 22 and 23.
The Nominations Committee has formal terms of reference approved 
by the Board and comprises the Managing Director and two Non-
Executive Directors, Adam Shutkever and its Chairman, Ric Piper. The 
Committee is responsible for reviewing all board appointments. The 
Committee met once during the financial year.
The Management Committee has formal terms of reference approved 
by the Board and has delegated authority from the Board for the day 
to day management of the Group. The Committee comprises the 
Executive Directors and senior management. Minutes of all meetings 
are distributed to the Board.
Record of attendance at Board and Committee meetings:
  Audit  Remuneration Nominations 
 Board Committee Committee Committee
Meetings held 11 6 2 1
Attendance    
Nigel Burton 10 5  
David Grassick 11 4  1
David Morton 11 6 2 1
Richard Moreton 10 0  
Ric Piper 11 6 2 1
Adam Shutkever 11 5 2 1
Internal controls 
The Board maintains a system of internal control to safeguard 
shareholders' investments and the Company's assets. The Directors 
acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the system of 
internal control and, in accordance with the guidance set out in the 
Financial Reporting Council  Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code', the Board has established an ongoing process for 
identifying and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Whilst the Board of Directors is responsible for the Group's system  
of internal controls, these systems provide only reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
A Risk Assessment has been undertaken throughout the organisation 
to identify, evaluate and, where possible, minimise or eliminate the 
risks faced by the Company in its normal course of business. This 
process was conducted throughout the period under review and 
continued up to the date of approval of the accounts. 
The Management Committee undertakes regular risk reviews, and will 
continue to do so. It identifies and assesses business risks and 
documents these accordingly at meetings, together with actions taken 
to minimise any potential risks. These assessments are reviewed by 
the Board with senior management taking responsibility for the 
processes established and monitored within their specific areas of 
operation on an ongoing basis. 
Internal financial control systems operate throughout the Group. 
Formal control is exercised through a clearly defined schedule of 
delegations of authority which is reviewed from time to time. An 
operational and financial Plan is approved by the Board annually. 
Financial reporting systems are in place to monitor performance 
against Plan, and to provide the Board with appropriate reports of 
performance against Plan at each meeting.
Corporate Governance Statement - Compliance with new Combined Code 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Granby Oil and Gas plc
The Directors do not consider that an internal audit function is 
required, given the size and nature of the business at this time.  
This will be reviewed annually. 
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal 
controls for the period. 
Shareholder communication
The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue with 
shareholders. Following each of the principal announcements, 
including the Company's interim and preliminary results, the Company 
sends copies of the announcements to all shareholders. The 
corporate website (www.granbyoil.com) provides access to all 
announcements and additional shareholder information. The Executive 
Directors have also made presentations to institutional investors. All 
shareholders are welcome to communicate with the Company at any 
time, and the Company has a policy of replying to all communications 
from shareholders. 
The Annual General Meeting is seen as an opportunity for 
shareholders to put questions to the Board and to meet the Directors 
informally after the meeting. The Chairman and the Chairmen of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available at 
the Annual General Meeting to answer questions. 
Auditor independence
The engagement and independence of external auditors is  
considered annually by the Audit Committee before it recommends 
their selection to the Board. The Committee has satisfied itself that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are independent and there are 
adequate controls in place to safeguard their objectivity. Such 
measures include the requirement to rotate audit partners every five 
years. We have a non-audit services policy which sets out criteria  
for employing external auditors and identifies areas where it is 
inappropriate for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to work.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP also follow their own ethical guidelines 
and continually review their audit team to ensure their independence is 
not compromised.