 AUdiT c o MMiTTee re Po r T
Members
 	 Jane Aikman (Chairman)
 	 Stephen Pettit
 	 Norman Blackwell
 	 Steve Marshall
 	 Daniela Barone Soares (from 10 November 2011)
 	 Richard Stone (until 28 July 2011)
r esponsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
non-executive Directors of the Group. The Audit Committee' s 
terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure 
and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code. The terms of 
reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee 
and are then referred to the Board for approval. The full terms 
of reference were last revised in February 2011 and can be 
found on the Company' s website or can be obtained from 
the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: 
 	 monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group' s financial performance and review significant 
financial reporting judgments;
 	 have oversight of risk management, including the review  
of the Group' s financial, operational and compliance 
internal controls, as well as whistleblowing and fraud 
prevention procedures;
 	 monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group' s internal 
audit function;
 	 make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to 
be put to the shareholders for their approval at the general 
meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and 
the approval of the remuneration and terms  
of engagement of the external auditors; 
 	 review and monitor the external auditors' independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration the periodic rotation of audit 
personnel and relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements; and 
 	 develop and implement a policy on the engagement of  
the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking 
into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Key issues and activities
The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of 
the Company, but spends a significant amount of its time 
reviewing the effectiveness of the Group' s internal control 
process. Combined with the Committee' s review of the 
internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain 
sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities. 
More specifically, during the year the Committee reviewed  
its own effectiveness and looked at its activities as detailed  
in the table below.
Audit c ommittee activities
f inancial statements  
and reports
r isk management internal audit external auditors and  
non-audit work
 	reviewed the 31 March 2012 
Annual Report and Accounts, 
the 1 October 2011 Half Y ear 
report and the IMSs issued in 
July 2011 and February 2012. 
As part of these reviews the 
Committee received a report 
from the external auditors on 
their audit of the Annual Report 
and Accounts; 
 	reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Group' s internal controls 
and disclosures made in the 
annual report and financial 
statements;
 	considered acquisition 
valuation methodology;
 	review of pension fund 
accounts; and
 	review of taxation provisions.
 	considered the output from 
the Group-wide risk review 
process to identify, evaluate 
and mitigate risks, the Group' s 
changing risk profile and future 
risk reports; and
 	agreed to extend the time 
devoted to risk at future 
meetings to adequately 
address risk management  
in the Group.
 	evaluated the effectiveness 
and the scope of work to be 
undertaken by the Internal 
Audit function;
 	reviewed management 
responses to audit reports 
issued during the year; and
 	reviewed the Group' s 
whistleblowing policy which 
allows Internal Audit to receive, 
in confidence, complaints on 
accounting, risk issues, internal 
controls, auditing issues and 
related matters. 
 	reviewed and agreed the 
scope of the audit work to be 
undertaken by the external 
auditors;
 	evaluated the independence 
and objectivity of the external 
auditors; and
 	agreed the terms of 
engagement and fees to be 
paid to the external auditors 
for their audit of the 31 March 
2012 financial statements.
76 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance
The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial 
year with Jane Aikman as the Chair. All five members are 
independent non-executive Directors in accordance with 
provision C.3.1 of the Code. The Chief Executive, Finance 
Director and representatives from the external Auditors 
attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide 
appropriate advice. The Committee meets at least three 
times per year and routinely meets the Auditors without 
the involvement of the executive Directors. The Board 
has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit 
Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.  
She is a chartered accountant, was recently a finance 
director and has listed company experience.
Training
The Audit Committee has extended all of its meetings by 
an hour to incorporate additional training on relevant topics, 
for example bribery and corruption, cyber security, financial 
reporting, internal control and governance.
Auditor independence
Deloitte LLP has been the external auditor of the Group since 
2003. A review of the independence of Deloitte LLP was 
undertaken during the year, and the Committee concluded 
that the relevant independence continued to be met. It is of 
prime importance that adequate procedures are in place to 
safeguard the auditors' objectivity and independence. At the 
year-end the auditors formally confirmed their independence 
and that objectivity has been maintained. In addition, they are 
required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group 
audit every five years. Following a rigorous evaluation of the 
audit service and a change in audit partner in 2010/11, the 
Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was not required 
for the 2011/12 audit. There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Committee' s choice of external auditors. 
The Group' s  Policy on Auditor Independence and  
Services provided by the External Auditor' sets out 
restrictions on the categories of non-audit services which  
the external auditors are allowed to provide to the Group.  
A summary of which is provided in the table below. This 
policy is regularly reviewed and states that the Group will  
only use the appointed external auditor for non-audit services 
in cases where these services do not conflict with the 
auditor' s independence. 
The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best 
placed to advise the Group on matters related to tax 
compliance and the structure of the Group. The Committee 
accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best 
undertaken by the external auditors, and appointments are 
made taking into account factors including expertise and 
cost. The Committee regularly reviews the amount and 
nature of the non-audit work the external auditors perform. 
The Audit Committee is notified of all non-audit services  
with external auditors' fees between  50,000 and  100,000. 
The policy also sets a fee level per project of  100,000 above 
which non-audit services are subject to a tendering process. 
The above fee levels for non-audit services are also subject 
to an annual cap equal to the audit fee. At each meeting, the 
Audit Committee also receives a summary of all fees, audit 
and non-audit, payable to the external auditor.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2011/12 were 
 660,000 (2011:  653,000) and non-audit service fees were 
 210,000 (2011:  251,000). The principal non-audit service 
is tax related. A summary of fees paid to the external auditors 
is set out in note 6 to the Accounts on page 107. 
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK  
& Ireland) 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the 
Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best 
practice, the external Auditors have confirmed their 
independence as auditors of the Company, in a letter 
addressed to the Directors. 
Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to 
the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte 
LLP as the Company' s independent auditors be proposed to 
shareholders at the AGM in July 2012 and the Board  
has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Jane Aikman 
c hairman
14 June 2012
Policy of auditor independence and services
Prohibited non-audit services Audit-related services not subject  
to separate tender if fees <  100,000
Permitted non-audit services,  
subject to approval 
 	appraisal or valuation services; 
 	financial Information systems design  
and Implementation; 
 	bookkeeping services;
 	management functions; 
 	executive recruiting and resource services;
 	broker-dealer services; and
 	legal services.
 	audits of businesses acquired or to be 
sold and due diligence services; 
 	opinions/audit reports on information 
provided by the company upon request  
from a third party; 
 	advice on accounting policies; 
 	electronic data processing audits; and 
 	tax services including local tax compliance.
 	due diligence services relating to 
acquisitions of new businesses or 
significant investments, joint ventures  
or strategic alliances with fees in excess  
of  100,000;
 	public reporting on investment circulars; 
and
 	liquidation services in respect of redundant 
subsidiaries or associate companies.
77 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview