 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
  Jane Aikman (Chairman)
  Stephen Pettit
  Norman Blackwell
  Steve Marshall
  Daniela Barone Soares
Audit Committee members
Allocation of time %
Audit Committee Report
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-
executive Directors of the Group. The Audit Committee's terms of 
reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 7 . 1 and the Code. The terms of reference are considered annually 
by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval. 
The full terms of reference were updated in April 2013 in line with the 
revised recommendations of the September 2012 Code and can be 
found on the Company's website or can be obtained from the 
Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: 
  monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any 
formal announcements relating to the Group's financial performance 
and review significant financial reporting judgments contained therein;
  have oversight of risk management, including the review of the 
Group's financial, operational and compliance internal controls, 
as well as whistleblowing and fraud prevention procedures;
  monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group's Internal Audit 
function;
  make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put 
to the shareholders for their approval at the general meeting, 
on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors;
  review and monitor the external auditors' independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant UK 
professional and regulatory requirements; and 
  develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external 
auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant 
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external 
audit firm.
Key issues and activities
The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the Company, 
but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group's internal control process. Combined with the Committee's 
review of the internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain 
sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities. 
More specifically, during the year the Committee reviewed its own 
effectiveness and looked at its activities as detailed in the table below.
Audit Committee activities
Financial statements and reports
  reviewed the 30 March 2013 Annual 
Report and Accounts, the 29 September 
2012 Half Year report and the IMSs 
issued in July 2012 and February 2013. 
As part of these reviews the Committee 
received a report from the external 
auditors on their audit of the Annual 
Report and Accounts; 
  reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's 
internal controls and disclosures made in 
the Annual Report and financial 
statements;
  considered acquisition valuation 
methodology;
  review of pension fund accounts; and
  review of taxation provisions.
Risk management 
  considered the output from the 
Group-wide risk review process to 
identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, 
the Group's changing risk profile and 
future risk reports; 
  devoted additional time to adequately 
address risk management in the Group; 
and 
 export controls.
Internal audit 
  evaluated the effectiveness and the 
scope of work to be undertaken by
the Internal Audit function;
  reviewed management responses to 
audit reports issued during the year; 
  reviewed the Group's whistleblowing 
policy which allows Internal Audit to 
receive, in confidence, complaints on 
accounting, risk issues, internal controls, 
auditing issues and related matters; and
  reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
External auditors and non-audit 
work 
  reviewed, considered and agreed the 
scope and methodology of the audit 
work to be undertaken by the external 
auditors;
  evaluated the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors; and
  agreed the terms of engagement and 
fees to be paid to the external auditors for 
their audit of the 30 March 2013 financial 
statements.
Financial statements
and reports 25%
Risk management 22%
Internal audit 14%
External audit 31%
Other 8%
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year with 
Jane Aikman as the Chair. All five members are independent 
non-executive Directors in accordance with provision C.3. 1 of the 
Code. The Chief Executive, Finance Director and representatives from 
the external Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order 
to provide appropriate advice. The Committee meets at least three 
times per year and routinely meets the Auditors without the 
involvement of the executive Directors. The Committee meets with 
the Internal Auditor on a regular basis throughout the year. The 
Finance Director works closely with the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee to ensure open communication between them. The 
Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit 
Committee with recent and relevant financial experience. She is a 
chartered accountant, is a finance director and has listed company 
experience.
Training
The Audit Committee has extended all of its meetings by an hour to 
incorporate additional time for risk-related topics and training on 
relevant topics, for example valuation of acquisitions and disposals, 
financial reporting (including additional coverage of audit procedures, 
scope and methodology), fraud, internal control and governance.
Auditor independence
Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor of the Group since 2003 
and an annual review of the independence of Deloitte LLP is 
undertaken each year. At the year-end the Auditors formally confirmed 
their independence and that objectivity has been maintained. The 
Committee concluded that the relevant independence continues to be 
met. In addition, the Auditors are required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years. Following a rigorous 
evaluation of the audit service and a change in audit partner in 2010/1 1, 
the Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was not required for the 
201 1/12 audit. The Committee reconsidered its review during 2012/13 
and concluded that a full tender is not currently required. The 
Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in 
September 2012 and effective for Halma's 2013/14 financial year and in 
particular the recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at 
least every 10 years. The Committee noted the proposed transitional 
arrangements with respect to audit tendering to fit the five yearly cycle 
of partner rotation. Consequently the Committee will consider its 
external tendering arrangements in anticipation of the next audit partner 
rotation, and provide an update in the 2013/14 Annual Report. The 
Committee will continue to focus on the effectiveness, objectivity and 
independence of the Auditor in its reviews. 
The Group's  Policy on Auditor Independence and Services 
provided by the External Auditor' sets out restrictions on the 
categories of non-audit services which the external Auditors are 
allowed to provide to the Group. A summary of which is provided in 
the table below. This policy is regularly reviewed and states that the 
Group will only use the appointed external auditor for non-audit 
services in cases where these services do not conflict with the 
auditor's independence. 
The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best placed 
to advise the Group on matters related to tax compliance and the 
structure of the Group. The Committee accepts that certain work 
of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external Auditors, 
and appointments are made taking into account factors including 
expertise and fees. The Committee regularly reviews the amount 
and nature of the non-audit work the external Auditors perform. 
The Audit Committee is notified of all non-audit services with 
external auditors' fees between  50,000 and  100,000. The policy 
also sets a fee level per project of  100,000 above which non-audit 
services are subject to a tendering process. The above fee levels 
for non-audit services are also subject to an annual cap equal to 
the audit fee. At each meeting, the Audit Committee also receives a 
summary of all fees, audit and non-audit, payable to the external 
Auditor.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2012/13 were 
 7 40,000 (2012:  660,000) and non-audit service fees were 
 307 ,000 (2012:  210,000). The principal non-audit service is 
tax-advisory related. A summary of fees paid to the external 
auditors is set out in note 6 to the Accounts on page 103. 
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & 
Ireland) 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting 
Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external 
Auditors have confirmed their independence as Auditors of the 
Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors. 
Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the 
Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the 
Company's independent Auditors be proposed to shareholders at 
the AGM in July 2013 and the Board has accepted and endorsed 
this recommendation.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Jane Aikman
Chairman
13 June 2013
Policy of auditor independence and services
Prohibited non-audit services
  appraisal or valuation services; 
  financial Information systems design
and implementation; 
  bookkeeping services;
 management functions; 
  executive recruiting and resource 
services;
  broker-dealer services; and
  legal services.
Audit-related services not subject 
to separate tender if fees 
< 100,000
  audits of businesses acquired or to be 
sold and due diligence services; 
  opinions/audit reports on information 
provided by the company upon request 
from a third party; 
  advice on accounting policies; 
  electronic data processing audits; and 
  tax services including local tax 
compliance.
Permitted non-audit services, 
subject to approval 
  due diligence services relating to 
acquisitions with fees in excess of 
 100,000;
  public reporting on investment circulars;
  liquidation services in respect of 
redundant subsidiaries or associate 
companies; and
  tax-advisory fees in excess of  100,000 
where the firm's existing knowledge of 
the Group structure is preferred.
71 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview  02-09
Business review  10-59
Governance  60-86
Financial statements  87-147
Governance  60-86