 Business review
Company overview Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
26 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Corporate social responsibility
Our people
The Group values communication with its employees, 
involving them in the wider Group and keeping them 
informed on matters affecting them as employees and 
on the various factors affecting the performance of the 
Group. Hamworthy has developed an intranet that regularly 
disseminates a significant amount of employee related 
information and is accessible at all our locations.
Employee feedback is encouraged on a range of issues, 
developing a culture of openness and honesty. Hamworthy 
seeks to provide an environment which allows individuals 
to develop to the best of their abilities.
Equality
The Group's employment policies include a commitment 
to equal opportunities regardless of sex, age, race or 
ethnic origin. 
Disabled people
It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair 
consideration to applications made by disabled persons 
taking into consideration the respective aptitudes and 
abilities of the applicants concerned. In the event of a 
member of staff becoming disabled every effort is made 
to ensure their continued employment within the Group 
and to provide specialised training where appropriate.
Training
The Group is committed to employee training and this year 
has spent  0.5 million (2009:  0.6 million) in this respect. 
This is in addition to the cost of on-the-job training which, 
whilst substantial, is impractical to quantify. The Group has 
initiated a leadership and talent development programme 
across all businesses aimed to increase the strength in depth 
of the Group's management capabilities.
Core values and ethics
The Group places great importance on a set of values and 
beliefs which inform actions taken within the Group and 
bind together its employees. These are publicised and 
promoted internally in all businesses.
Valuing 
people
We will ensure that we all have a safe 
working environment. Our employees 
will be given the opportunities to develop 
and grow within the Hamworthy Group 
and we will recognise and reward their 
achievements. We will always respect each 
others' views and opinions.
Openness  
and honesty
We will be open and honest in all dealings 
and communications both within the 
Group and with third parties.
One team We will work across geographical, cultural 
and business boundaries as one team 
to achieve the best result for all of our 
stakeholders.
Continuous 
improvement
We will continually seek to find ways 
to improve our products and services 
and to create better results for our 
customers, shareholders, employees 
and the environment. We will spread 
best practice across the Group. 
We deliver We are all committed to keeping our 
promises to deliver, both internally  
and externally.
In 2009 Hamworthy also issued a new Code of Ethics and 
Business Conduct with which all employees are required to 
comply. The Group seeks to be an ethical and responsible 
part of the business community and will carry out its 
business fairly, honestly and transparently. 
As an international organisation, 
Hamworthy plc is particularly 
aware of its responsibilities to its 
employees, the communities and 
the environment in each of the 
diverse areas in which it operates. Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
27 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Company overview
Business review Corporate social responsibility
Whistleblowing
The Company operates a whistleblowing policy which is 
publicised both internally and externally via its website. 
This provides the necessary access for, and protection 
of, employees wishing to bring matters they suspect as 
being malpractice or impropriety to the attention of the 
relevant person.
Health and safety
The health and safety of Hamworthy employees is of the 
highest priority. The Group has strengthened its approach to 
safety throughout the Group led by a member of the Group 
executive committee. The executive committee reviews 
the safety performance of each business every month and 
has implemented a consistent reporting system both for 
accidents and for near misses  where a potentially unsafe 
situation arose but no accident occurred.
Safety performance has now been included as one of the 
Group's key performance indicators as set out on page 25. 
All of the Group's principal business sites have achieved 
accreditation under OHSAS 18001 health and safety standard.
Our stakeholders
Suppliers
It is the Group's policy to agree terms with its suppliers 
that are appropriate for the markets in which they operate 
and to abide by such terms where suppliers have also met 
their obligations. Creditor days as at 31 March 2010 were 
40 days (2009: 46 days). We seek to engage with our major 
suppliers and attempt to understand and, if appropriate, 
encourage their approach to environmentally friendly and 
ethical sourcing of materials.
The Group has made progress in its approach to strategic 
purchasing with the expansion of dedicated procurement 
personnel and adoption of group-wide standards of 
performance and monitoring.
Shareholders
The Company meets with institutional shareholders and 
analysts as appropriate and uses its website to encourage 
communication with private, existing and prospective 
shareholders. Hamworthy plc welcomes feedback from 
investors about its published reports and website. Please 
address your feedback to our investor relations team 
by e-mail to investor@hamworthy.com or in writing 
to Hamworthy plc, Fleets Corner, Poole BH17 0JT.
All of the Group's principal business 
sites have achieved accreditation 
under OHSAS 18001 health and 
safety standard.
Hamworthy communicates its safety news to all employees 
via the Group's intranet.
Health and safety Business review
Company overview Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
28 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
Our environmental impact
We are very conscious of the environmental impact that our 
activities may have on the communities in which we operate 
and we constantly strive to minimise the effect of this.
All the Group's principal sites are accredited under the  
ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Many of our products have a direct environmental benefit 
and they are often designed to ensure that our customers 
can meet relevant environmental legislation. The Group has 
added to its portfolio of such products during the last year 
with the development of ballast water systems, helping to 
protect the world's oceans, and ships' exhaust emission 
cleaning, reducing the levels of sulphur emitted to the 
atmosphere from ships' engines. 
Hamworthy is a constituent of The FTSE Environmental 
Opportunities Index Series. The Index measures the 
performance of global companies that have significant 
involvement in environmental business activities, including 
renewable & alternative energy, energy efficiency, 
water-technology and waste & pollution control. Forming 
part of the overall FTSE Environmental Markets Index 
Series, the FTSE Environmental Opportunities Index Series 
recognises companies that derive at least 20% of their 
business from environmental markets and technologies. 
Our communities
The Group seeks to contribute to the communities in which 
it operates both directly and through the encouragement of 
participation by employees.
The single largest social impact is the wealth created within 
communities both economical and in development of skill 
sets and knowledge.
The Group contributes directly to charities with donations 
totalling  5,150 during the year of which  2,450 was to UK 
charities. In addition, employees give time to social causes 
which is often provided during Company working periods. 
Employee time contributed during the year is estimated 
at  20,000 with employees participating in activities such 
as educational support, social benefit projects and charity 
management. The Group made no political donations 
during the year.
The Group's Charity Policy specifies the nature of those 
causes that the Group will support as being for the 
benefit of sick, disabled or underprivileged persons or for 
special educational causes particularly involving children 
and with links to the communities in which Hamworthy 
businesses operate.
We are very conscious of the environmental impact that our 
activities may have on the communities in which we operate 
and we constantly strive to minimise the effect of this. Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
29 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Company overview
Business review Corporate social responsibility
Responsibility in action
Hamworthy donated to Hilfe f r das schwerkranke Kind 
providing medical equipment and short vacations to critically 
ill children near Hamburg in Germany.
Other specific support was given to the victims of the 
Sichaun Province earthquake in China, with the Company 
matching the  1,800 donation raised from Hamworthy 
employees in China, to two UK charities again matching 
 400 raised by UK employees for the Haiti Disaster Relief 
Fund and in support of the Royal British Legion's Festival 
of Remembrance.
Giving back to our communities
Hamworthy has a long-standing support relationship with 
Lewis Manning, Poole's local voluntary hospice providing 
palliative care for patients with cancer and other life 
threatening illnesses. Paul Crompton is a director and trustee 
of Lewis Manning Trust. Paul brings his financial and general 
management skill set to the organisation and is currently 
assisting them in a capital appeal to fund a new bedded 
unit at the hospice.
Lewis Manning Hospice
In 2009 approximately 15 tons of waste paper generated 
by Hamworthy's UK operation was shredded and reused to 
protect equipment spare parts during transit to customers.
Recycling
Hamworthy encourages employees to maintain a healthy 
lifestyle and provides opportunities to pursue that, including a 
cycle-to-work initiative in the UK, charity corporate sports events 
and occupational health programmes. 
Cycle to work scheme