 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
44
Governance
Nomination Committee Report
The Nomination Committee had an active 2012 with the 
significant restructuring of the Board. Carol Bell, Ian Bruce 
and Paul Mortimer advised their intention to not put themselves 
forward for re-election and would retire following the Company's 
AGM in May 2012. Accordingly, the Nomination Committee 
recommended to the Board for the appointment of Alasdair 
Locke as Non-Executive Chairman, the appointment of Peter 
Milne, as Non-Executive Director and Ian MacKenzie as Chief 
Executive Officer. 
Committee's role
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition and balance 
of the Board and senior executive team on a regular basis to 
ensure that the Board and senior management have the right 
structure, skills and experience in place for the effective 
management of the Company's business.
Main responsibilities
In 2013 the Nomination Committee reviewed its terms of 
reference and recommended that the Board adopt several 
changes which were approved by the Board in January 2013. 
A copy of the Nomination Committee's terms of reference can 
be found on the Company's website www.hardyoil.com. 
The main duties of the Nomination Committee are 
summarised below:
 - review the structure, size and composition of the Board and 
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
changes;
 - succession planning for Directors and other senior executives;
 - identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to 
fill Board vacancies as and when required;
 - reviewing annually the time commitment required of Non-
Executive Directors; and
 - making recommendations to the Board regarding membership 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committee in consultation with 
the Chairman of each Committee.
Committee membership
The Nomination Committee currently comprises of four Non-
Executive Directors with Alasdair Locke as Chairman. The 
Nomination Committee met twice in 2012. Mr Locke was 
appointed Chairman of the committee following the retirement 
of Ian Bruce. As part of a restructuring of all three Board 
committees, the Board approved the appointment of three 
Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman of the Board. 
The membership and attendance of members at Committee 
meetings held in 2012 are provided below:
Committee member Member through 2012
Meetings 
attended
Alasdair Locke (Chairman) from 16 May 2012 1 of 1
Ian Bruce (Chairman) to 16 May 2012 1 of 1
Peter Milne from 16 May 2012 1 of 1
Dr Carol Bell to 16 May 2012 1 of 1
Pradip Shah continuous 2 of 2
Yogeshwar Sharma from 16 May 2012 1 of 1
Committee activities during 2012 and subsequent to 
year end
Chair succession 
Paul Mortimer had advised the Board in 2011 that he intended 
to retire as Chairman. Accordingly, the Nomination Committee 
considered the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on 
the Board and prepared job specifications and estimated time 
commitments. Following a comprehensive recruitment process, 
which included the appointment of an external consultant and 
consultation with major shareholders, the Nomination Committee 
made a recommendation to the Board that Alasdair Locke be 
appointed to the Board as Chairman with effect of 16 January 
2012. The recommendation was approved by the Board on 
16 January 2012.
Chief Executive succession 
In late 2011 Yogeshwar Sharma advised the Board of his 
intention to cease being an Executive Director and his desire to 
continue as a Non-Executive Director following the recruitment 
of an appropriate candidate. Subsequently Alasdair Locke, 
Chairman of the Board, put forward a candidate for the 
Nomination Committee's consideration. Members of the 
Nomination Committee undertook a number of interviews with the 
candidate, resulting in the Nomination Committee recommending 
to the Board the appointment of Ian MacKenzie as Chief 
Executive Officer.
Board refreshment
In 2012 Carol Bell, Ian Bruce and Paul Mortimer advised the 
Board that they would not be putting themselves forward for 
re-election at the Company's 2012 Annual General Meeting 
scheduled for 16 May 2012.
Accordingly, the Nomination Committee evaluated the skills 
and experience of the outgoing non-executives, the Committee's 
review noted that Carol Bell, senior non-executive and Chair of 
the Audit Committee, and Ian Bruce, Chair of the Nomination 
Committee and member of the Audit Committee, had extensive 
relevant financial experience and expertise. It was agreed that a 
primary requirement of potential candidates would be current and 
relevant financial experience and expertise.
Having consideration for the pending loss of Board members 
with current and relevant financial experience and expertise, 
Alasdair Locke put forward a non-executive candidate for the 
Nomination Committee to consider. The Nomination Committee 
interviewed the candidate put forward by Alasdair Locke and 
subsequently recommended to the Board for the appointment 
of Peter Milne as Non-Executive Director. The Board accepted 
the Nomination Committee's recommendation and Peter Milne 
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the board which 
took effective on 1 March 2012.
Board Committee membership
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating 
appropriate individuals for membership of the Board's 
Committees. Following the refreshment of the Board a number of 
changes were made to the composition of the Board Committees 
to ensure that they are comprised of individuals with necessary 
skills, knowledge and experience. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
45
Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
Review terms of reference 
The Nomination Committee reviewed its terms of reference 
during the year. As a result of the review the Nomination 
Committee recommended that the Board adopt several 
amendments to comply with current ISCA guidelines and the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. The key amendments were:
 - Duties - Clauses 9.5 to 9.10 - several clauses were amended 
regarding guidelines for identification and appointment of 
Directors;
 - Other matters regarding: access to resources; timely training; 
consideration of law as and regulations; and periodic review 
of committee performance.
A copy of the revised terms of reference can be found on the 
Company's website www.hardyoil.com.
Committee evaluation
The performance of the Nomination Committee was evaluated 
as part of the Board evaluation which was completed in 2013. 
The review was coordinated by the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee with the assistance of the Company Treasurer.  
As a result the Nomination Committee was considered to 
be operating effectively.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
6 March 2013 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
46
Governance
Directors' Report
The Directors of Hardy Oil and Gas plc present their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2012. These will be presented before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held 
on 9 May 2013.
Business review and future developments
Hardy is an international upstream oil and gas company focused in India. The Company is incorporated in the Isle of Man and its 
registered office is Fort Anne, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 5PD. Hardy's objective is to be a leading independent exploration and 
production company in India and deliver consistent step change growth in shareholder value through the exploration of potential 
commercial hydrocarbon accumulations. A full review of the Company's activities during 2012 and plans for 2013 can be found in 
the Chairman's Statement, Chief Executive Officer's Statement, Review of Operations, Financial Review, Corporate Responsibility 
Statement, Directors' Remuneration Report and the Risks and Uncertainties section of the Annual Report, which are incorporated 
herein by reference. 
Directors
The Directors that served in office during 2012 were:
Board member Position Throughout 2012 Committee member
Carol Bell Senior Non-Executive Director to 16 May 2012 - Audit (Chairman)
 - Remuneration
Ian Bruce Non-Executive Director to 16 May 2012 -Audit
 - Nomination (Chairman)
Alasdair Locke Non-Executive Chairman from 16 January 2012 - Remuneration
 - Nomination (Chairman)
Ian MacKenzie Chief Executive Officer 
Executive Director
from 16 May 2012
from 1 March 2012
Peter Milne Senior Non-Executive Director from 16 May 2012 - Audit (Chairman)
Non-Executive Director from 1 March 2012 - Remuneration
 - Nomination
Paul Mortimer Non-Executive Chairman to 16 January 2012 - Remuneration
 - Nomination
Non-Executive Director to 16 May 2012 - Remuneration
 - Nomination
Pradip Shah Non-Executive Director continuous - Remuneration (Chairman)
 -Audit
 - Nomination
Yogeshwar Sharma Chief Executive Officer
Non-Executive Director
to 16 May 2012
from 16 May 2012
 -Audit
 - Nomination
Indemnity provision for Directors
Subject to the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004, but without prejudice to any indemnity to which a Director may otherwise 
be entitled, every Director shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses, 
damages and liabilities incurred by the Director in the actual or purported execution of his or her duties. The Company has a Directors' 
and Officers' liability insurance policy in place.
Results and dividends
The Group is reporting a total comprehensive loss of $11,069,191 for 2012 compared to a comprehensive loss of $1,877,954 
for 2011. The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for 2012.
Election and re-election of Directors
At the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held on 9 May 2013, Yogeshwar Sharma and Pradip Shah will offer 
themselves for re-election as Non-Executive Directors. Biographical details for Mr Yogeshwar Sharma and Mr Pradip Shah are set  
out on pages 28 to 29.
Messrs Locke, Shah, Milne and Sharma have entered into engagement letters with the Company in respect of their appointments  
as Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The appointments are subject to termination upon at least three months' notice by  
either party.
Ian MacKenzie has entered into a service agreement as an Executive Director with the Company pursuant to which his engagement  
is subject to termination upon 12 months' notice by either party.