 Letter from the  
Chairman of the Audit Committee
23124.04   25 March 2014 6:24 AM   Proof 11
Dear Shareholder,
The Audit Committee has continued to work over 2013 to improve the Company's risk management and reporting.
In this report of the Audit Committee as regards the year ending 31 December 2013, we have made every effort to provide detailed 
information as to the activities of the Committee over the course of the year, noting the purpose of such activities and their results, 
as well as to give shareholders some insight into the judgment calls made by the Committee and the basis upon which they were 
made.
The Committee's primary responsibility is to review the financial information provided to shareholders on behalf of the Board, to 
review the Company's internal financial controls and to oversee its relationship with the external auditors.
The main agenda items at the four meetings of the Committee in 2013 included reviewing the regular financial reports made to 
shareholders, monitoring and reviewing the internal audit programme, and reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems. 
Details of the further work carried out by the Committee are given in the report that follows. The Company's Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer are invited to all the meetings of the Committee, however the Committee also meets when 
appropriate with the external auditor without the presence of the Executive Directors or management.
In addition, during 2013, Deloitte assisted the Audit Committee with its internal audit function. In order to do this, the internal 
auditor prepared a risk report, on the basis of which work commenced on various internal audit projects, regarding which the 
audit committee received periodic updates. During 2013, the internal auditor produced three reports on issues of importance to 
the Group, which were received by the audit committee for comment and two of which have been finally approved. The audit 
committee has further prioritised a list of internal audit issues to be examined by the internal auditor in 2014.
In October 2013, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) issued a report on the reporting of audit committees, providing further 
insight from companies and investors on effective approaches to audit committee reporting in light of the changes to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee has sought in this report to include more detail on the specific matters raised by the 
FRC as well as generally to increase the visibility of shareholders to the activities of the audit committee.
Amos Pickel
Chairman of the Audit Committee
25 March 2014
Audit Committee Report
Stock Code: 888
31
www.888holdingsplc.com Governance 23124.04   25 March 2014 6:24 AM   Proof 10
Membership
The Audit Committee is chaired by Non-executive Director 
Amos Pickel. John Anderson also served on the Committee 
throughout the year. The members of the Committee are 
considered independent by the board, having no day-to-
day involvement with the Company. The Board is satisfied 
that Amos Pickel has sufficient recent and relevant financial 
experience to chair the Audit Committee. Normally, by 
invitation, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer and, where appropriate, representatives of 
the Company's external auditors attend the Audit Committee 
meetings. In addition, the Committee meets with the external 
auditors in the absence of the Company' Executive Directors 
and management.
Roles and Responsibilities
The Audit Committee's terms of reference are available on the 
Company's website, www.888holdingsplc.com.
Work of the Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and 
internal audits and controls, including reviewing 888's annual 
financial statements, considering the scope of the annual 
audit and the extent of non-audit work undertaken by external 
auditors, approving 888's internal audit programme, advising 
on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the 
effectiveness of internal control systems. There is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
risks faced by the group that was in place for the year under 
review and up to the date of approval of the report, which is 
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Turnbull 
guidance. The Board is responsible for the group's system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, which is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. We disclose below a summary of the processes the board 
and its committee applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the 
system and dealing with material internal control aspects of 
any significant problems disclosed in the report and accounts. 
During the year, the Committee fulfilled this role by carrying 
out the following:
 } Review of the terms of reference of the Committee 
to ensure that they correctly reflect the roles and 
responsibilities of the Committee in light of the recent 
developments;
 } Review of the Company's interim and annual financial 
statements and the published interim management 
statements, with particular focus on ensuring that - taken 
as a whole - the statements were fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provided the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, 
business model and strategy. In this respect, the Committee 
considered the adequacy of the systems and controls 
on which management relies in preparing the accounts, 
including procedures to ensure accuracy and completeness 
of information and to ensure consistency with information 
provided to the Board throughout the year;
 } Receipt and discussion of the internal audit program and 
reports from Deloitte, in its capacity as the Company's 
internal auditor, as well as prioritizing the internal audit 
program for the upcoming year;
 } Review of the legal and regulatory risks faced by the 
Company and the manner in which such risks are 
monitored and addressed on an ongoing basis by the 
Board;
 } Review of the going concern position of the company. 
Considering all relevant factors, the Committee 
determined that the Company remains a going concern.
The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the 
external audit process by establishing schedules and agendas 
for regular meetings with the auditors, supervising the audit 
function directly to ensure that the auditors are independent 
and objective in their findings, meeting with the auditors 
to assess their plans for the audit, and working to ensure 
comprehensive audit coverage to meet the risks and demands 
posed by the Company's business. 
During the year, the Committee fulfilled this role by carrying 
out the following:
 } Meetings with the auditors at the planning stage and at 
completion of their review of the interim accounts, at the 
planning and final stages of the year end audit. Within 
these meetings, areas of significant interest that were 
discussed were as follows: 
 } Review of the impairment tests applied to intangible 
assets in light of the future cash flows expected from 
such assets on the balance sheet and calculation of the 
appropriate discount rate; 
 } Revenue recognition policies of the group and the 
systems and controls around the recording of income 
in the accounts;
 } Taxation position of the group;
 } The appropriateness of the accounting in respect of 
the joint venture arrangements entered into by the 
Group in the USA;
 } Considering the adequacy of the Company's procedures 
for safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor; and
 } Considering the implications for the Company of the Code 
as to putting the external audit out to tender at least once 
every ten years. It is noted that this audit is provided under 
a joint arrangement within the same international firm 
structure and the relevant firm's audit partners have been 
rotated every five years with the next individual partner 
rotation due in 2014. The Committee is considering the 
requirement to put the external audit out to tender in the 
near future.
Audit Committee Report
888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013
32 23124.04   25 March 2014 6:24 AM   Proof 11
The appointment or reappointment of the external auditor is put 
to the vote of each Annual General Meeting. Prior thereto, the 
Audit Committee considers the auditor's performance during 
the year, and forms a view as to whether to recommend that the 
present auditor be re-appointed or an alternative be proposed. 
As regards 2013, the Audit Committee formed the view that the 
external auditors performed their role in a professional manner 
and recommended that the auditor be re-appointed for 2014 
at the next AGM in May 2014 and, if so appointed, that they will 
hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of 
the Company at which accounts are laid.
BDO LLP and BDO Limited were appointed as the Company's 
external auditors in 2004. Whilst the Code requires companies 
to comply with the requirement to put the external audit out 
to tender once every ten years, or explain their failure to do 
so, the Financial Reporting Council put forward some possible 
transitional arrangements, including suggesting that companies 
which appointed their auditor post-2000 may defer the tender 
process until after one more audit partner term. In addition, 
the Competition Commission proposals published in October 
2013, which are expected to pass into law in October 2014, 
also provided for transitional arrangements which will require 
companies which have not tendered since the beginning of 
2005 to tender two years after the present partner rotation 
period ends; as well as European regulations approved in 
December 2013 and which are expected to come into law 
within two years in the United Kingdom, but which currently 
contain no such transitional arrangements. Neither BDO LLP 
nor BDO Limited provides any material non-audit services 
to the Company. The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that 
the Company's auditors are objective and independent by 
monitoring the appointment of the auditors for any non-audit 
work involving fees above US$0.1 million. In 2013, the external 
auditors carried out non-audit work for the Company involving 
fees in the aggregate amount of US$0.1 million.
Stock Code: 888
33
www.888holdingsplc.com Governance