 Dear shareholder 
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
non-executive directors of the Company. The Audit Committee's 
t er ms 	 o f 	 r e f er enc e 	 i nc l ude 	 al l 	 m att ers 	 i nd i cat ed 	 b y 	 t he 	 Ju ne 	 2 008	
C omb i ned 	 C ode 	 on 	 C or por at e 	 Go v er n anc e 	 ( t he 	  2 008 	 C ode ')
published by the Financial Reporting Council. Further information 
on 	 t he 	 2 008 	 C ode 	 can 	 be 	 fou nd 	 on 	 t he 	 F i n anc i a l 	 R eport i ng	
Council's website, frc.org.uk. The terms of reference are 
considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then 
referred to the Board for approval. 
Composition of the Audit Committee 
Paul Harrison, an independent non-executive director, chairs  
the Audit Committee. Lesley Knox, William Eccleshare and Paul 
Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the year. 
Paul Harrison, a Chartered Accountant, is the Group Finance 
Director of The Sage Group plc. As such, he is considered suitably 
qualified to be the Audit Committee Chairman. The qualifications 
(both formal and by experience) of the other members of the 
Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report  
on page 45.
At the invitation of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the 
Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Head of 
Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and external Auditor 
regularly attend meetings.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the 
Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a member 
of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to  
the Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the 
Board. The Committee comprises four independent non-executive 
directors and two members constitute a quorum. 
Role of the Audit Committee 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Audit Committee 
terms of reference. These were considered to be in line with best 
practice and no changes were necessary. The terms of reference 
of the Audit Committee are published on the Company's website, 
haysplc.com and are also available from the Company Secretary 
at the Registered Office. 
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: 
 	 mon i t or 	 t he 	 appr opr i at eness 	 o f 	 t he 	 fin anc i a l 	 stat emen ts 	 and	
formal announcements relating to the financial performance 
including any significant judgements;
 	 r ec ommend 	 t o 	 t he 	 Board 	 for 	 appr o v al 	 b y 	 s har eho l ders,	 
the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the  
external Auditor;
 	 mon i t or 	 t he 	 r el at i ons h i p 	 w i t h 	 t he 	 C ompan y' s 	 A ud i t or , 	 i nc l ud i ng	
consideration of its fees, the audit scope and the terms of its 
engagement;
 	 r e v i e w 	 t he 	 e ffect i v eness 	 and 	 ob j ect i v i ty 	 o f 	 t he 	 e xt er na l 	 aud i t	 
as well as the Auditor's independence;
 	 r e v i e w 	 t he 	 po l i cy 	 on 	 en g a gemen t 	 o f 	 t he 	 A ud i t or 	 for 	 t he	
provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance;
 	 r e v i e w 	 t he 	 C ompan y' s 	 i n t er nal 	 c on t r o l 	 and 	 r i s k 	 managemen t	
systems;
 	 mon i t or 	 t he 	 e ffect i v eness 	 o f 	 t he 	 C ompan y' s 	 In t er nal 	 A ud i t	
function; and
 	 ens u r e 	 t he 	 C ompan y 	 ma i n ta i ns 	 s u i tab l e 	 ar r angemen ts 	 for	
employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Activities of the Audit Committee 
The Committee met four times during the financial year ended  
30 June 2010. Attendance at meetings is shown on page 51.
During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities  
as follows: 
Financial statements 
The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual financial 
statements and half year report prior to recommending their 
approval to the Board. The Committee discussed with the 
executive directors and external Auditor the appropriateness  
of accounting polices adopted, significant estimates and 
judgements, whether the financial statements gave a true and fair 
view and the appropriateness of the going concern assumption. 
External Auditor 
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the 
Board for approval by the shareholders the appointment of  
the external Auditor. Deloitte LLP is the external Auditor of  
the Company and, under ethical guidance, they are required  
to introduce a new audit partner every five years. The current 
audit partner has been in place for four years.
In line with its terms of reference, the Committee undertook a 
thorough annual assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value 
and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP, seeking 
the views and feedback of the Audit Committee and fellow  
Board members, together with those of Group and divisional 
management. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Committee as to the choice of external Auditor.
The Committee considered the scope and materiality for the  
audit work, considered the audit fee, reviewed the results of  
the Auditor's work and considered the Auditor's performance  
and effectiveness. The risk of the Auditor withdrawing from the 
market was also considered.
40 Hays plc a nnu al r epo rt & f ina ncial s tat ements 2010
directors' report - g ove rnance:
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee met the external Auditor twice during the year 
without management being present. 
The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of the 
Auditor for non-audit services and confirmed the applicability  
of that policy in satisfying itself that their independence and 
objectivity was not impaired. 
The key features of this policy are as follows: 
 	 w or k 	 c l o s el y 	 r el at ed 	 t o 	 t he 	 aud i t 	 ( e. g. 	 ta x at i on 	 or 	 fin anc i a l	
reporting matters) can be awarded to the Auditor by the 
executive directors provided the work does not exceed 
 150,000 in fees per item; and
 	 a l l 	 o t her 	 w or k 	 e i t her 	 r equ i r es 	 A ud i t 	 C omm i tt ee 	 appr o v a l	 
or forms part of a list of prohibited services where it is  
felt independence or objectivity may be impaired.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed 
by Deloitte LLP in the year and has concluded that the policy  
has been applied and their independence and objectivity has  
not been impaired as a result. Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP 
and their associates during the financial year are set out in note 7 
t o 	 t he 	 fin anc i a l 	 stat emen ts 	 on 	 pa ge 	 7 8 .
After due and careful consideration, taking account of the 
processes above, the Committee has recommended to the Board 
that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as the Company's Auditor at  
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2010.
Risk management and internal control
The Audit Committee reviewed the Company's risk management 
and internal control systems by considering the Group's  
risk assessment process which included detail of the extent  
of coverage, the assessment methods employed and the 
effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks. It also 
considered the results of testing performed by both the  
internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness 
of such controls. 
Internal Audit and risk
The Audit Committee oversees the risk management and 
assurance activities including the work of Internal Audit.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the terms  
of reference of the Internal Audit function and no changes  
were necessary.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance and 
effectiveness of the Head of Internal Audit and the Internal Audit 
function through an internal review process, which sought views 
from a number of internal stakeholders. The Committee also 
reviewed the independence and objectivity of Internal Audit  
and its activities, including the annual audit plan and resource 
requirements. The plan has delivered both geographic and 
financial coverage, as well as risk-based assurance in support  
of non-financial topics such as HR processes, finance system 
implementations and contract management capabilities. 
Internal Audit reports include recommendations to improve 
internal controls and management action plans to address  
any issues. At each meeting, the Committee received details  
of outstanding audit recommendations and those that were 
overdue, with management comments on progress made. 
The Committee also met the Head of Internal Audit twice during 
the year without management being present.
Raising concerns in confidence 
The Audit Committee reviewed the Group's procedures enabling 
employees to raise concerns in confidence. Employees are  
able to raise concerns or report compliance issues through an 
independent third-party organisation. The Committee receives 
reports of any serious concerns raised at each meeting. 
Audit Committee effectiveness 
The Audit Committee undertook its own annual performance 
evaluation, which concluded that the Committee has acted in 
accordance with its terms of reference, is operating effectively 
and met all legal and regulatory requirements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 
2010 Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about  
the work of the Committee. 
On behalf of the Audit Committee. 
 
P S Harrison  
Chairman, Audit Committee 
d irectors' r ep ort - Business r ev ie W d irec tors' r ep ort - g ove rnance r emun eration r epor t - g ov ernance f inanc ial s tat ements Hays plc a nnu al r epo rt & f ina ncial s tat ements 2010 41