 64 |  HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Members
Mark Morris (Chair)
Ian Chippendale
Ben Mingay
The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Mark Morris who has recent and relevant financial 
experience. He worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc 
Finance Director and now also chairs the Audit Committee of LSL Property Services plc.
The internal and external auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Chairman are invited, but are not entitled, to attend all meetings. Where appropriate, other 
Executive Directors and managers also attend meetings at the Chairman's invitation. The 
external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns 
that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings 
or, more informally, outside of them.
Responsibilities
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to:
  monitor, on behalf of the Board, compliance with and the effectiveness of, the Company's 
accounting and internal control systems
  agree audit strategy
  monitor the scope and results of the Company's annual external audit 
  review the independence and objectivity of its auditors
  review the preliminary and interim results and financial statements before they are 
presented to the Board
  approve and monitor the internal audit plan
  review the appropriateness of the internal audit function
Audit & Risk Committee report
Governance
Mark Morris 
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee
 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014  | 65   
Strategic report Corporate responsibility Financial statements Governance
  receive reports from the Company's internal and external auditors
  make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies
  make recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their 
approval in general meeting for the appointment of the external auditor, the approval of their 
remuneration and their terms of engagement
  receive reports from the Group Risk Committee
  advise the Board on the Group's overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy
  advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy 
  review and approve the means by which the Group and its regulated subsidiary 
undertakings seek to comply with their respective regulatory obligations
  review the adequacy and security of the Company's arrangements for its employees to raise 
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
Summary of meetings in the year
The Committee usually meets four times in the year and did so in FY14. During the year the 
agenda has included the following items:
  Half year results
  Full year results
  Principal judgemental accounting matters
  External audit plans and reports
  Internal audit plans and reports
  Risk assessments and reports, including a gap analysis in respect of the Group's risk 
appetite
  Updates on regulatory compliance activity
  Updates on certain key risks, including information security and data protection
  Update on the HomeServe Toolkit which sets out the delegated authorities across the Group
  Whistleblower reports
  Internal audit effectiveness and independence
  External audit effectiveness and independence.
  The Chairman of the Committee provides an update in respect of the matters discussed to 
the Board after each Committee meeting and the minutes of meetings are circulated to the 
whole Board. 
The Committee meets privately, without any of the Executive Directors or management present, 
with the external and internal auditors after each Committee meeting.
 66 |  HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Significant issues related to the financial statements
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether 
management has made appropriate estimates and judgements. Management prepares 
papers providing details on the key judgements and these are reviewed by the Committee. 
The Committee also reviews reports from the external auditor on the half year and full year 
results, which provide an overview of the audit work undertaken and highlight any issues for 
discussion.
The significant issues considered in the year were:
  revenue recognition, specifically the timing of when to recognise revenue so that sufficient 
revenue is deferred to cover future obligations including claims handling
  accounting in respect of new customers acquired through the Endesa and Enel  Sales 
Through Service' channels
  the exceptional provisions required in respect of the UK issues including the remediation 
exercises
  the exceptional provisions required for the FCA fine and associated costs
  the carrying value of intangible assets (specifically acquisition intangible assets) and 
goodwill arising on the purchase of businesses and books of policies and customers
The Committee addressed these matters using reports presented by management which set 
out the basis for the assumptions used. All of the issues were also discussed with the external 
auditor and its views were taken into account. The Committee is satisfied that the judgements 
made are reasonable and appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
Audit & Risk Committee report
Governance
 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014  | 67   
Strategic report Corporate responsibility Financial statements Governance
External auditor
The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, 
for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making 
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor. The 
Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Group's policy on the 
provision of non-audit services by the external auditor. 
The Committee has agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own 
effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process. The Committee reviews the 
performance of the external auditor annually. 
Deloitte LLP has been the Group's auditor since 2002, although the lead audit partner rotates 
every five years.
During the year the external auditor presented its transparency report to the Committee, which 
is intended to demonstrate the steps it takes to ensure audit quality with reference to the Audit 
Quality Framework issued by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council. 
The Committee also considered whether the auditor's understanding of the Group's business 
and its understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates, including the regulatory 
landscape, was appropriate to the Group's needs. It also assessed the performance of the audit, 
the auditor's conduct of its relationship with the Group and the requirements of the Group's 
financial control process. On this basis, the Committee concluded that the needs of the Group 
would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time. The Committee 
has therefore recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP should be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has noted the findings of the Competition Commission into the audit market, 
which will require all FTSE-350 companies to put their audit out to tender every ten years and, 
where auditors have been in office since before 2005, to conduct a tender no later than two 
years after the end of the current lead partner's five year term. Based on the expected date  
that these rules will be effective, this would mean that the Group would be required to put its 
audit out to tender by 2021. A recommended course of action will be proposed to the Board 
in due course. The Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of 
external auditor.
 68 |  HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for 
non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services. This policy provides 
that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should 
not normally be more than 100% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and audit-related 
assurance services. In addition, any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved 
by the Committee. 
The fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work (excluding audit-related assurance 
services) totalled  176,000 and the fees payable in respect of audit and audit-related assurance 
services totalled  320,000. Further detail on the fees paid is provided in Note 7. 
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) 260 and Ethical Statement 1 
issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditor has 
confirmed his independence as auditor of the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
Risk management and internal control
As stated in the Corporate Governance report, the Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit & Risk Committee 
supports the Board by advising the Group's overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, current 
risk exposures and future risk strategy. The Committee reviews risk registers produced by the 
management of each business and the plc function at each of its meetings. On a periodic basis,  
it also reviews action plans in respect of significant risks. 
The Committee also monitors, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Company's 
accounting and internal control systems. In fulfilling this responsibility, the Committee receives 
reports from management and the internal and external auditors.
Further details in respect of risk management and controls are set out in the Corporate  
Governance report.
Audit & Risk Committee report
Governance
 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014  | 69   
Strategic report Corporate responsibility Financial statements Governance
Internal audit 
The Committee considers and approves the internal audit plan which is based on an assessment 
of the key risks faced by the Group. Progress in respect of the plan is monitored throughout the year 
and care is taken to ensure that the internal audit function has sufficient resource to complete the 
plan. The audit plan may be reviewed during the year as a result of the ongoing assessment of the 
key risks or in response to the needs of the business. 
The Assurance, Risk and Best Practice Director reports ultimately to the Chairman of the Committee 
although he reports on a day-to-day basis to the Chief Financial Officer. He attends all meetings of 
the Committee and reports regularly to the Group Risk Committee. A quarterly report on completed 
internal audits is presented to the Committee and, where appropriate, action plans are reviewed. 
In addition, all grade 1 audit reports are circulated to the Committee as soon as they are finalised so 
any issues can be addressed in a timely manner.
During the year, the effectiveness of the internal audit function was assessed by the Assurance, Risk 
and Best Practice Director and the Committee.
By order of the Audit & Risk Committee.
Mark Morris
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee
20 May 2014
