 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
14
Corporate Governance
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE 
In July 2003 a new code,The Combined Code on
Corporate Governance, was issued by the Financial
Reporting Council (the 2003 FRC Combined Code).
The 2003 FRC Combined Code applies for reporting
years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The maintenance of effective corporate governance
remains a key priority for the Board and the
statement below describes how the directors have
applied the principles of corporate governance and
complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code
throughout the year subject to the exceptions
mentioned below.
The Board
The Board has ultimate responsibility and accountability
for the Group's operations.
During the year the Board comprised the Chairman,
Chief Executive, Finance Director and a non-executive
director.
During the year 12 Board meetings were held. The
directors attended as follows:
Board of Directors Attendance
NA Johnson 12
F Martin 12
J W Stansfield 11
N J Cosh 12
The Board believes the current structure is appropriate
for the scale of the business and to enable the Group
to be managed efficiently.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decisions including the
determination of strategy, the approval of business
plans, budgets, acquisitions and disposals, major capital
purchases, Board appointments, accounting policies
and treasury arrangements.The Board also delegates
specific responsibilities to committees as described
below.The Board meets monthly and monitors
progress against plan at each meeting.
The directors have the authority of the Board to
obtain external legal or other independent
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties
at the Company's expense.All directors have access
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary,
who is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are 
followed and applicable rules and regulations are
complied with.The executive directors have all
received appropriate training for their appointment
to the Board of a listed company.The non-executive
directors bring a broad expertise to the Board.
N A Johnson and N J Cosh are both experienced
company directors. Biographical details of each
director are shown on pages 10 to 11.
The Board has formal and informal procedures to
monitor its performance both as individuals at annual
appraisals and as a Board.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are
separate and there is a clear division of responsibility.
The Chairman is considered independent and
responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its
effectiveness.The Chairman and the Board are
satisfied that effective communication, principally by
the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is
undertaken with the shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the
business and ensuring that accurate, timely and clear
information is presented at monthly Board meetings
or when appropriate.
Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Board considers both of the non-executive
directors who served during the year to be
independent of management and free from any
business or other relationship which could interfere
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board believes that their interest in receiving fees
as directors and as being shareholders does not
prejudice their independence.
N J Cosh has been identified as the senior
independent non-executive director through whom
shareholder and stakeholder concerns can be
conveyed to the Board.
Availability of Information
Executive management have a responsibility to
provide the Board with sufficient information in a
form and quality appropriate to enable it to discharge
its duties.The Board therefore expects to receive
timely information, circulated in advance, on all issues
scheduled to arise at Board meetings. On a regular
basis these will include management accounts  15
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
indicating the performance of the business against
budget together with financial forecasts that are
updated on a monthly and quarterly basis.
Nominations Committee
Appointments to the Board require the Board's
authorisation and are conducted by the Nominations
Committee comprising the Chairman, executive and
non-executive directors.
The Nominations Committee held no meetings in
the year as no appointments were necessary.The
Board believes it is appropriate that all directors are
members of the Nomination Committee and although
non-executives do not constitute a majority the
Chairman has the casting vote.The non-executives
not forming a majority of the Nominations Committee
is an area where the requirements of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code are not met.
The Chief Executive and executive directors approve
a job specification, review comparative terms of
remuneration and may appoint an external consultant
to prepare a short list of potential candidates.
The potential candidates are interviewed by either
the Nominations Committee or a panel appointed 
by that Committee.An appointment requires final
approval by the Board prior to an offer being
forwarded.
The Company's Articles of Association currently
require one third of the directors to retire by rotation
at each Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the 
non-executive directors. The current members of the
committee are N A Johnson (Chairman) and N J Cosh.
The Committee normally meets twice per annum but
more frequently if required.
During the year two Remuneration Committee
meetings were held. The Committee members
attended as follows:
Remuneration Committee Attendance
NA Johnson 2
N J Cosh 2
The composition is in compliance with the 2003 FRC
Combined Code provision B.2.1 which states that the
Committee should consist exclusively of independent
non-executive directors, and provision B.1.6 which
requires setting notice or contract periods at, or
reducing them to, one year or less.
Details of directors' contracts are provided in the
Remuneration Report.
The Committee is responsible for establishing formal
and transparent procedures for determining policy on
executive remuneration and advising the Board on
executive remuneration and in particular for ensuring
that executive remuneration packages are sufficient
to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of
the required quality whilst avoiding paying more than
necessary. It also endeavours to establish performance
related elements of remuneration which align the
interests of the directors with those of the
shareholders. No director is involved in deciding his
own remuneration.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company communicates regularly with its
institutional shareholders and encourages
communication with private investors through the
Annual General Meeting.
The executive directors update major shareholders at
institutional visits and analyst presentations immediately
after the interim and final announcements. The
Chairman attends a selection of these meetings.
The meetings facilitate open discussion and direct
face-to-face contact and the views of shareholders
are reported to the Board by the Chairman and
Chief Executive.
The senior independent non-executive director also
welcomes direct discussions with shareholders.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an
occasion for communication with its shareholders.
All proxy votes are counted by the Company's
registrars and the voting on each resolution is made
available to the meeting. Directors of the Company
and the UK subsidiary attend the meeting to respond
to specific questions. HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
16
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive
directors. The current members of the Committee
are N J Cosh (Chairman) and N A Johnson.The
Board considers that N J Cosh and N A Johnson have
recent and relevant experience. During the year two
Audit Committee meetings were held. The Committee
members attended as follows:
Audit Committee Attendance
N J Cosh 2
NA Johnson 2
The Committee has written terms of reference,
which set out clearly its authority and duties. These
include the following:
 review of the interim and full year results and the
Annual Report and Accounts
 review the scope and results of the audit and its
cost effectiveness
  review the external auditor's appointment
including remuneration and terms of engagement
 review the independence and objectivity of 
the auditors 
  review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the
Group's internal controls, policies and procedures
The Committee considered the requirement of an
internal audit function but believed it would be
inappropriate for the Group at this stage given its size.
The position is reviewed annually.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and the
meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive,
Finance Director and the Group's auditors.
On occasions the auditors provide non-audit services
particularly in regard to potential acquisitions.The
Board considers alternative providers if practical and
seek assurances regarding independence and ensure
alternative personnel to the audit team are involved.
Informal arrangements exist for staff of the Group to
raise concerns in confidence, about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or
other matters. During the year, the Audit Committee
reviewed these arrangements and deemed them
adequate given the size of the Group.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The directors have overall responsibility for the Group's
system of internal control.Although no system of
internal control can provide absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss, the system is
designed to provide the directors with reasonable
assurance that problems are identified on a timely
basis and are dealt with appropriately.
The key elements of the Group's system of internal
control are as follows:
Control environment
The Board has put in place an organisational structure
with clearly defined and understood lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. The Board
promotes a strong control environment with a strong
ethical climate.
Identification of business risks
The Board has the primary responsibility for
identifying the major business risks facing the Group
and developing appropriate policies to manage those
risks. The Board has completed a risk assessment
programme in order to identify the major business
risks and has reviewed and determined the key
control objectives.
Major corporate information systems
The Group operates a comprehensive annual
planning and budgeting system in conjunction with a
three year business plan which is regularly updated to
reflect changing circumstances.The annual plans and
budgets are approved by the Board.The Board
reviews the management accounts at its monthly
meetings and financial forecasts are updated monthly
and quarterly. Performance against budget is
monitored and where any significant deviations are
identified appropriate action is taken.
Main control procedures
Management establishes control procedures in
response to each of the key risks identified. Standard
control procedures operate to ensure the integrity of
the Group's financial statements.
Corporate Governance
continued