 HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles underlying the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance. 
 
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the good corporate governance of the Group. The principles of 
corporate governance and a code of best practice are set out in the Combined Code. Under the rules of AIM market the 
Group is not required to comply in full with the Code nor to state where it derogates from it. The Board considers that the 
size and nature of the Group does not warrant compliance with all the Code's requirements. This statement sets out how 
the principles of the Code are applied to Hot Tuna (International) PLC. 
 
BOARD STRUCTURE 
The Board comprises a non executive director and three executive directors.  Given the size of the Group, it is considered 
that this gives the necessary mix of industry specific and broad business experience necessary for the effective governance 
of the Group. 
 
There are no matters specifically reserved to the Board for its decision, although board meetings are held on a regular basis 
and effectively no decision of any consequence is made other than by the directors. During the year 6 board meetings were 
held.  All directors participate in the key areas of decision making, including the appointment of new directors. 
 
The  Board  is  responsible  to  shareholders  for  the  proper  management  of  the  Group.   A  statement  of  directors' 
responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 11.  The non executive director has a particular responsibility 
to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.  
 
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.  
 
There is no agreed formal procedure for the directors to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense.  
 
All directors submit themselves for re election at the Annual General Meeting at regular intervals.  There are no specific 
terms of appointment for the non executive director. 
 
The following committees, which have written terms of reference, deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs. 
 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
The Audit Committee comprises of Marcus Yeoman (Chairman of the committee) and Francis Ball. Meetings can also be 
attended by the external auditors. 
 
The remit of the Committee is to review: 
  the appointment and performance of the external auditors 
  the independence of the auditors 
  remuneration for both audit and non audit work and nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors 
  the interim or final financial report and accounts 
  the external auditors management letter and management's responses 
  the systems of risk management and internal controls 
  operating, financial and accounting policies and practices, and 
  to make related recommendations to the Board 
 
The Audit Committee meets once a year. 
 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Remuneration Committee comprises Marcus Yeoman (Chairman of the committee), and Francis Ball, with Mark Percy 
(Seymour Pierce) advising, and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Company's framework of 
Executive remuneration and its cost.  The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for 
the directors. The report on directors' remuneration is set out on pages 9 to 10. 
 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
There is no separate Nomination Committee at the moment due to the size of the Board. All directors are subject to re 
election at regular intervals. 
 
  HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC  
8 
INTERNAL CONTROL  
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Company's systems of internal control.  
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the 
Company's systems are designed to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a 
timely basis and dealt with appropriately. 
 
The Group maintains a comprehensive process of financial reporting. The annual budget is reviewed and approved before 
being formally adopted. Other key procedures that have been established and which are designed to provide effective 
control are as follows: 
 
 management structure - where the Board meets regularly to discuss all issues affecting the Company; and 
 
 investment appraisal - the Company has a clearly defined framework for investment appraisal and approval is 
required by the Board where appropriate. 
 
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and considers the major business risks 
and the control environment.  No significant control deficiencies have come to light during the period and no weakness 
in internal financial control have resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties which would require 
disclosure as recommended by the guidance for directors on reporting on internal financial control. 
 
The Board considers that in light of the control environment described above, there is no current requirement for a 
separate internal audit function. 
 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The chairman is the Company's principal spokesperson with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested 
parties.  At the Annual General Meeting (AGM), private investors are given the opportunity to question the Board. 
 
This report and its financial statements will be presented to the shareholders for their approval at the AGM. The notice of 
the AGM will be distributed to shareholders together with the Annual Report. 
 
GOING CONCERN 
The financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 has been prepared on a going concern basis. As at the date of this 
report, the Company has no available credit facilities. In the event the Company required further funds to continue, a fund 
raising exercise would be proposed with existing and/or potential new investors, and additionally the Company is in the 
process of selling the Group's IP and assets which the Directors believe will be successful, and raise sufficient cash 
resources to enable the new  Group structure to continue for the next 12 months. Accordingly, the directors believe the 
going concern basis to be appropriate.  HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT 
 
Remuneration Committee 
 
The members of the committee are Marcus Yeoman and Francis Ball with Mark Percy (Seymour Pierce) advising.  Details of 
the remuneration of each director are set out below.  
 
Executive remuneration packages are prudently designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of high calibre, who are 
needed to drive and maintain the Group's position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to the 
shareholder. 
 
Remuneration Policy 
 
Share options 
The directors have options granted to them under the terms of the Hot Tuna (International) PLC Share Option Scheme 
which is open to other qualifying employees. The reason for the scheme is to incentivise the directors and management 
personnel and enable them to benefit from the increased market capitalisation of the Company.   
 
Pension arrangements 
There are no pension arrangements in the Group.  Two alternative schemes are under review. 
 
Directors' contracts 
It is the Company's policy that the executive director should have a contract with an indefinite term providing for a 
maximum of six months notice. In the event of early termination, the directors' contracts provide for compensation, where 
appropriate, up to a maximum of basic salary for the notice period. 
 
Non executive directors 
The fees of the non executive director is determined by the Board as a whole having regard to the commitment of time 
required and the level of fees in similar companies.  
 
The non executive director is employed on a renewable fixed term contract not exceeding three years. 
 
 
Directors' emoluments  
 
  2011  
 000's 
2010  
 000's 
Salary  Fees  Total Salary Fees  Total
Geoff O'Connell  83    83 81 50 131 
Kiran Morzaria (*)       12 12 24 
Francis Ball (**)    12  12     
      
  83  12  95 93 62 155 
 
* Kiran Morzaria resigned on 29 April 2011. 
** Francis Ball was appointed on 21 February 2011  HOT TUNA (INTERNATIONAL) PLC  
10 
DIRECTORS' INTERESTS IN OPTIONS  
 
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in 
the Company or granted to or held by the directors. Details of options held by directors who served during the year are as 
follows: 
 
 
 
Director 
 
 
Date of grant 
 
Vesting date 
Number of
options over 
Ordinary shares 
Exercise
Price 
(pence) 
 
Option exercise period 
Kiran Morzaria  22/05/2008  22/05/2008  1,000,000 2 5 years from date of grant.
Geoff O'Connell  03/07/2006  03/07/2007  100,000 2 6 years from date of grant.
Francis Ball            
 
 
All options have been granted under the Hot Tuna (International) PLC Share Option Scheme. Options granted under this 
scheme are not subject to performance criteria.  The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 June 2011 was 0.09 pence 
(2010: 0.18 pence) and the range during the year was 0.08 pence to 0.28 pence (2010: 0.18 pence to 0.55 pence). 
 
There was no exercise, forfeiture or waiver of any of the above options during the year. 
 
APPROVAL 
 
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 December 2011. 