 Page 12
H.R. Owen Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 200 The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance as it seeks to protect and enhance shareholder value 
and improve financial performance. The Company has kept under review its position in relation to adherence to the 
Combined Code and has complied throughout the period under review with most of the Code's recommendations.
Statement of compliance
The Board believes it has complied with the relevant principles and provisions of the Combined Code throughout the 
period under review save in respect of the following matters: Code Provision A.1.3 and A.6.1 - The Chairman did not 
meet with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present, and neither did the non-executive 
directors meet without the Chairman to review his performance. These meetings have now been held in 2006.
The Board
The Board comprises four executive and seven non-executive directors. It is chaired by Mr MacArthur who is a non-
executive director. The non-executive directors bring a breadth of successful commercial and professional experience  
to the Board and are all considered independent with the exception of Mr Moynahan who represents the Shelton 
Corporation. The senior independent non-executive director is Mr Pajares. Mr Giltrap and Mr MacArthur have been 
directors for more than ten years but are still considered to be independent and free from any business relationship that 
would interfere with their independent judgement. Directors' biographies which appear on page 4 demonstrate a breadth 
of relevant experience in the motor and other industries.
The Board met seven times during the year and is scheduled to meet six times in 2006 with additional meetings if 
required. The Board reserves to itself a range of key decisions to ensure it retains proper direction and control of  
the Group, whilst delegating authority to individual directors who are responsible for the day-to-day management  
of the business. Any two directors would be able to approve and authorise routine banking and operational matters.
An executive committee comprising the executive directors and other senior managers meets on a regular basis. This 
committee is responsible for co-ordinating manufacturer specifications and regulations and brand changes across the 
Group. It is also responsible for agreeing new and used car stock funding policies and implementation of health and 
safety practices.
The Board retains responsibility for formulating the strategy for the Group, reviewing and approving all acquisitions  
and disposals, monitoring divisional performance, approving the annual budget, and generally seeking to improve 
performance and profitability to deliver value for shareholders from Group assets.
All directors receive detailed financial and operational reports on each division on a monthly basis. Additionally, the 
non-executive directors are encouraged to attend one of the monthly franchise board meetings, held at franchise level 
and attended by senior operational executives, in order to gain more insight into operational issues within the Group.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that the Board 
procedures are followed and for compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. In addition, a formal procedure has 
been established for any director to seek independent professional advice in furtherance of his duties, at the Company's 
expense. All directors receive appropriate training as and when required.
The Board has established the following committees:
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Mr MacArthur, Mr Pajares and Mr Robertson. Mr Robertson chairs the Committee, 
and is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience. The Committee has written terms of reference which 
are available on the Company's website. The Committee met twice during the year to review the annual and interim 
accounts, and the effectiveness of the Group's internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee agrees the scope, and the cost effectiveness of, the external audit function and assists the Board in 
ensuring that the Group's published financial statements give a true and fair view. The Committee reviews the findings of 
the external auditor and agrees the main accounting policies and judgements. It also monitors accounting and control 
activities in order to report to the Board on the development of the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls. In 
accordance with the New Combined Code, a written procedure for the reporting of financial irregularities was fully 
implemented during 200. 
The Committee considers the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the level of fees payable for both 
audit and non-audit work, and the need for an internal audit function.
Corporate Governance Report Page 13
H.R. Owen Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 200 www.hrowen.co.uk
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr MacArthur, Mr Robertson and Mr Pajares, and is chaired by Mr Pajares. 
Full details appear in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 8 to 11.
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee also comprises Mr MacArthur, Mr Robertson, and Mr Pajares, and is chaired by  
Mr Pajares. The Committee did not meet during the year.
The Company Secretary is the secretary of each of the above Committees.
The attendance by individual directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees during 200 is shown below.
   Main Board  Audit  Remuneration  Total 
J P MacArthur   7  1  2  10 
C J Giltrap   4  -  -  4 
R Pajares   7  2  3  12 
J L Robertson   7  2  3  12 
B G Moynahan   2* -  -  2 
N B Mason     -  -   
J A Smith   4  -  -  4 
N R Lancaster   7  -  -  7 
D H Jaggar   7  2  3  12 
D G Evans   7  -  -  7 
B C A Green   7  -  -  7 
* Mrs L Shelly from Shelton Corporation attended a further three meetings as Mr Moynahan's alternate.
Internal controls
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and believes it has maintained  
a sound system to safeguard the Group's assets during the period under review.
Whilst the Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal controls, it should be recognised that such a system 
can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Group's system of 
internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board has established a process for identifying and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This process 
was conducted throughout the period under review and continues up to the date of approval of the Report and 
Accounts. A risk assessment committee comprising senior management across the Group and chaired by the finance 
director regularly reviews previously identified risks and evaluates new risks faced by the Group. It will assess, where 
possible, the potential impact of these risks and, if necessary, either enhance the internal control systems in place, or 
implement new ones to manage them. A schedule of all risks identified, any action planned, and the outcome of such 
action is documented for presentation to the Audit Committee. The Finance Director reports any concerns regarding 
significant risks to the Board as appropriate. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the 
guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The risk review conducted during 200 covered strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks inherent in the 
business and identified, assessed and prioritised those risks. For each significant risk identified, the adequacy of current 
controls was considered and further action taken as necessary.
All of the Group's businesses are integrated into the Group's management information system, which is frequently 
upgraded in line with best practice. This system continues to bring benefits in terms of efficiency. 
A separate Health and Safety audit was carried out at all of the dealerships during the year and all sites have been 
deemed compliant. Separate audits relating to disability discrimination and asbestos have been completed and any 
improvements required are being implemented.
Corporate Governance Report continued Page 14
H.R. Owen Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 200 The Audit Committee will report to the Board any material weakness in the internal control system together with the 
action taken to prevent any recurrence. The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for 
the period. Key elements of the Group's system of internal controls are as follows:
There are clearly defined lines of authority and responsibility at management and operational levels, including 
procedures for authorisation of capital expenditure.
All business units are required to adhere to a financial accounting manual detailing Group policies and financial 
accounting procedures.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system, which compares actual  
out-turn to budget.
Monthly management accounts are compiled and analysed and any variance from budget is investigated fully.
The full year forecast is reviewed quarterly in the light of ongoing trading results.
Cash flow is checked against forecast regularly and bank accounts are reconciled on a timely basis.
Regular Health and Safety audits of dealership activities are conducted.
Extensive use is made of site security measures.
The Company did not have a dedicated internal audit function during the year, and it remains the view of the Board  
that this has not impaired the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The Board believes the systems in place  
are sophisticated and far-reaching enough not to require a separate internal audit function at this time. The Board  
will continue to review this annually.
Going concern
At the time of preparation of these accounts, after making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group's financial statements.
Shareholder relations
The Board maintains a close relationship with its institutional shareholders and keeps them informed as to the 
Company's activities. This dialogue primarily involves the Chief Executive and the Finance Director. All shareholders 
are welcome to communicate with the Company at any time and the Annual General Meeting is seen as an opportunity 
for investors to put questions to the Board and to meet the directors informally after the meeting. The chairmen of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
The Company also has a website, found at www.hrowen.co.uk, which provides corporate, financial and dealership 
information.
James Adams
Company Secretary
28 March 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report continued