 HUNTSWORTH PLC report and accounts 2006 23
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good 
corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Company's compliance with 
the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in 
June 2006 and appended to the Listing Rules (the  Code').
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
The Board
The Board comprises the independent non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Human Resources Director 
and three independent non-executive directors. The Board considers that, notwithstanding their interests in the shares and share options 
of the Company as set out in the Report of the directors on remuneration on pages 26 to 31, the current non-executive directors are independent 
of the management of the Group and are free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement. The Huntsworth PLC Non-Executive Directors Share Option Scheme provided a basis for aligning the interests 
of the non-executive directors with those of the Company's shareholders. It is not intended to make any further awards under this scheme.
One of the non-executive directors, Robert Alcock, has the role of senior independent director. 
The biographies of the directors appear on page 19. These demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect 
of the financial statements is set out on page 25 and a statement on going concern is given on page 20.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision-making. The Board generally meets every month, reviewing 
trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining acquisition possibilities and when appropriate, 
reporting to shareholders. The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive 
directors are fully considered. Monthly Board papers containing current and forecast trading results, treasury and shareholder information 
are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow time for preparation by directors and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all directors. 
The Board also receives presentations from executive directors and from divisional management on specific issues as well as having direct 
access to senior operational management within the Group as required.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. In addition, the senior independent director ensures 
that the directors have access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Company's expense. 
All directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter one 
third of the Board retire annually by rotation. Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to reappointment.
Attendance at meetings
Details of attendance of directors and Committee members at the principal Board and Committee meetings in 2006 are as follows:
   Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
H Jon Foulds   14 of 14     1 of 1
Francis Maude (to 1 March 2006)   1 of 2      
Lord Chadlington   14 of 14     1 of 1
Roger Selman (to 31 May 2006)   7 of 7      
Anthony Brooke    11 of 14 3 of 3 5 of 5  
Eugene Beard   11 of 14      
Robert Alcock   14 of 14 3 of 3 5 of 5 1 of 1
Charles Good (to 4 July 2006)   7 of 9 1 of 1    
Tracey Reid   12 of 14      
Sally Withey (from 1 June 2006)   7 of 7      
Board performance evaluation 
The performance of the Board is assessed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the strengths and weaknesses identified are discussed 
at meetings of the Board.
The Board uses performance evaluation questionnaires. Any improvements required are implemented based on the results.
Corporate governance
_01_HNT_ar06_back.indd   4 08/05/2007   15:09:21 24 HUNTSWORTH PLC report and accounts 2006
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES CONTINUED
Committees of the Board
The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the Group's affairs and all the Committees have specific terms of reference which 
can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by the Company's senior independent director, Robert Alcock, and its other member is Anthony Brooke. 
Charles Good also served as a member of the Audit Committee until 4 July 2006. Members of the Audit Committee have broad financial 
experience which has been gained in a variety of disciplines and which the Board considers appropriate to enable the Committee to carry 
out its responsibilities. 
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the 
Chief Executive and the Finance Director. There is provision for the external auditors to discuss any concerns they may have with the Committee 
in the absence of management if necessary.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the interim and annual financial statements and monitoring 
the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The Audit Committee advises the Board 
on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and 
results of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditors. In particular the Audit Committee oversees the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors 
each year to ensure that external auditor independence is safeguarded.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Robert Alcock and its other members are Jon Foulds and Lord Chadlington. The Nominations 
Committee meets as necessary and is responsible for reviewing and making proposals to the Board on the appointment of directors.
In 2006 the Nominations Committee reviewed the search and selection process for the appointment of Sally Withey to succeed Roger Selman 
as Group Finance Director. This involved a thorough search both internally and externally including the use of external headhunters.
The Nominations Committee is also in the process of selecting a new Chairman to succeed Jon Foulds.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Anthony Brooke and its other member is Robert Alcock. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, 
by the Chairman, the Human Resources Director and the Chief Executive. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Remuneration Committee recommends to the Board the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors 
and other senior executives of the Group, including performance related bonus schemes, share-based incentive plans and pension rights. 
Such recommendations are determined after a review of the performance of the individual and by reference to the Company's financial 
results. In the case of the executive directors, other than the Chief Executive, the Committee seeks the advice of the Chief Executive in any 
review. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors. External advice from a leading firm of remuneration 
consultants is sought when necessary. 
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration, service contracts, and share-based incentive plans are given in the Report of the directors 
on remuneration on pages 26 to 31.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In order to create an ongoing process to fulfil this responsibility the Board has established a number of measures in order to identify, evaluate 
and manage the key financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the Group and these have been in place throughout the year and 
up to the date of the signing of the accounts. These measures are summarised below:
The Board meets monthly, and is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate 
course of action to manage those risks. The Board has put in place the procedures necessary to implement and comply with the guidance 
 Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code' (The Turnbull Report).
The Group has a budgetary process in which the key risks faced by the Group are identified. Performance is monitored and relevant action 
taken through the monthly reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the period together with information 
on the key risk areas. 
Capital expenditure is regulated by the budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written 
proposals have to be submitted to the Board. Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group including delegation of authority 
and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures and each operating Company maintains a system of controls 
appropriate to its business. The Audit Committee monitors controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment, 
and also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. The findings of the 
Audit Committee are communicated to the Board.
Corporate governance continued
_01_HNT_ar06_back.indd   5 08/05/2007   15:09:21