 Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
The Board of the Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and ethics. The Financial
Reporting Council (FRC) published the new  UK Corporate Governance Code' in June 2010, replacing the  Combined Code on
Corporate Governance', and in September 2010 the Quoted Companies Alliance (QCA) published  Corporate Governance Guidelines
for Smaller Quoted Companies', replacing previous guidelines issued in 2004 and 2005. Although as an AIM listed company it is not
formally required to do so, the Group has sought to comply with the  UK Corporate Governance Code' so far as is practical and
appropriate for a public group of its size and nature. The Group supports the recommendations on corporate governance of the
QCA and has implemented steps to reach compliance.
The Group's approach to corporate governance
The Group seeks to apply established best practice in the field of corporate governance. The Board is focused on creating shareholder
value through respecting the needs of shareholders, employees, clients, candidates and contractors.
Board effectiveness
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading and controlling the Group by:
  Having a Board constitution that exercises direction and supervision of the Group's operations and defines the line of responsibility
from the Board to the business;
  Retaining specific responsibility for agreeing the strategic direction of the Group, the approval of accounts, business plan, budget
and capital expenditure, the declaration of dividends, the review of operating results, the effectiveness of governance practice and
risk management, and also the appointment of senior executives and succession planning;
  Delegating responsibilities to sub-committees; Audit Committee; Remuneration Committee; and Nominations Committee.
Board balance
The Group's commitment to achieving a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors is shown by the Non-Executive Directors
being considered to act independently of management and free from any business relationship that could materially interfere with the
exercise of their independent judgement. The Company Secretary maintains a register of conflicts of interest.
The Board consists of 3 Executive Directors and 3 Non-Executive Directors. Ian Fallmann was appointed as a Non-Executive director
during 2010. The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Transparency of Board appointments
The Nominations Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and for making recommendations on
Board composition and balance. The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Ishbel Macpherson
The other members of the Committee are the Non-Executive Directors, Martyn Phillips and Ian Fallmann (following his appointment),
and the Executive Chairman, Ian Temple.
The Nominations Committee met on three occasions during 2010 and was fully attended.
The procedure for appointments to the Board includes the requirement to specify the nature of the position in writing and to ensure
that Non-Executive Director appointees have sufficient time available to meet the demands of the position.
The Nominations Committee's Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Group's website:
www.hydrogengroup.com.
Regular re-election of Directors
All Directors are subject to re-election every three years. Prior to re-nomination, the Nominations Committee will conduct an
assessment of the performance of each retiring Director. The Board will not approve such a re-nomination if the performance of the
retiring Director is not considered satisfactory.
Ian Fallmann is due for election in 2011, and the Board have considered and agreed that Ian be put forward for election. The Board
member due by rotation for re-election in 2011 is Ian Temple, and the Board have considered and agreed that Ian be put forward for
re-election.
Timeliness and quality of Board information
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings by establishing procedures for:
  Distributing Board papers in advance of meetings and considering the adequacy of the information provided before making decisions;
  Adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when Directors have concerns about the information available to them; and
  Making the Company Secretary responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information.
12 Hydrogen Group plc Annual Report 2010
Corporate governance statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Performance evaluation
An evaluation of Board performance and effectiveness is undertaken annually. Each Director completes a detailed questionnaire giving
their assessment of individual and collective performance. The results are discussed and debated at Board and Committee level to
ensure that issues arising are effectively addressed. In 2010, the process identified the need for an additional Non-Executive Director,
to maintain the executive to non-executive balance on the Board, which led to the appointment of Ian Fallmann in October 2010.
The Remuneration Committee set financial and personal development objectives for the Executive Directors. Each Executive Director
has a performance review conducted biannually by another Executive Director.
Going concern
The major areas which could affect the Group's financial position are detailed on page 19. Having taken account of the situation
outlined there the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dialogue with institutional and major shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders by:
  Making annual and interim presentations to institutional investors;
  Meeting shareholders to discuss long term issues and obtain their views;
  Communicating regularly throughout the year; and
  Regular meetings of the Board being used as the forum to ensure that Non-Executive Directors are updated on the views of major
shareholders that have been communicated to the Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
The Board has nominated Ishbel Macpherson as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ishbel Macpherson is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman or Executive Directors.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourage their participation by providing
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control. The Group's system of internal control is
designed to safeguard the Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of information used within the business and for publication.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it or its duly authorised committee
for decision, aimed at maintaining full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues
on an ongoing basis.
The Group held nine board meetings in 2010 and the average attendance was 96%.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined responsibilities and delegation of authority.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee's primary responsibilities are to review the financial statements; to review the internal control systems including
risk management; to consider the appointment of the external auditors and their independence, and to review audit effectiveness.
Annually, the Audit Committee considers the requirement for an internal audit function and, to date, has concluded that it is
unnecessary for a group of the size and complexity of Hydrogen. This will be kept under review.
The Committee consists entirely of the independent Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director, Ishbel Macpherson. At the invitation of the Committee, the Finance Director, Chairman and representatives of the external
auditors attend the Audit Committee meetings. The Audit Committee meet without Executive Board members present at least once
during the year.
The Audit Committee met six times during 2010 and was fully attended.
The Audit Committee's Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Group's website: www.hydrogengroup.com.
Whistleblowing policy
Hydrogen Group operates a positive commitment and open approach to whistleblowing. It encourages all individuals to raise any
concerns that they may have about the conduct of others in the business or the way in which the business is run. Martyn Phillips,
Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Group's appointed person for all whistleblowing matters and his contact details are available
to all staff, and are published on the Group's intranet.
Hydrogen Group plc Annual Report 2010 13