 14 Hydrogen Group plc Annual Report 201 1
                                                                                                                                                                                             
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
The Board of the Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and ethics. The Financial Reporting  
Council (FRC) published the new  UK Corporate Governance Code' in June 2010, replacing the  Combined Code on Corporate Governance' , and in 
September 2010 the Quoted Companies Alliance (QCA) published  Corporate Governance Guidelines for Smaller Quoted Companies' , replacing 
previous guidelines issued in 2004 and 2005. Although as an AIM listed company it is not formally required to do so, the Group has sought to comply 
with the  UK Corporate Governance Code' so far as is practical and appropriate for a public group of its size and nature. The Group complies with the 
recommendations of the QCA on corporate governance.
The Group's approach to corporate governance
The Group seeks to apply established best practice in the field of corporate governance so far as is practical and appropriate for a public company 
of its size and nature. The Board is focused on creating shareholder value through respecting the needs of shareholders, employees, clients, 
candidates and contractors. 
Board effectiveness
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading and controlling the Group by: 
>  Having a Board constitution that exercises direction and supervision of the Group's operations and defines the line of responsibility from the Board 
to the business;
>  Retaining specific responsibility for agreeing the strategic direction of the Group, the approval of accounts, business plan, budget and capital 
expenditure, the declaration of dividends, the review of operating results, the effectiveness of governance practice and risk management, and also 
the appointment of senior executives and succession planning; and
>  Delegating responsibilities to sub-committees; Audit Committee; Remuneration Committee; and Nominations Committee. 
Board balance
The Group's commitment to achieving a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors is shown by the Non-Executive Directors being 
considered to act independently of management and free from any business relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement. The Company Secretary maintains a register of conflicts of interest. 
The Board consists of 3 Executive Directors and 3 Non-Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the 
presence of the Executive Directors. 
Transparency of Board appointments 
The Nominations Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and for making recommendations on Board 
composition and balance. The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director , Ishbel Macpherson The other members  
of the Committee are the Non-Executive Directors, Martyn Phillips and Ian Fallmann and the Executive Chairman, Ian Temple.
The Nominations Committee met on three occasions during 2011 and was fully attended.
The procedure for appointments to the Board includes the requirement to specify the nature of the position in writing and to ensure that Non-
Executive Director appointees have sufficient time available to meet the demands of the position. 
The Nominations Committee's Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Group's website: www.hydrogengroup.com. 
Regular re-election of Directors 
All Directors are subject to re-election every three years. Prior to re-nomination, the Nominations Committee will conduct an assessment of the 
performance of each retiring Director . The Board will not approve such a re-nomination if the performance of the retiring Director is not considered 
satisfactory .
The Board members due by rotation for re-election in 2012 are Tim Smeaton and Ishbel Macpherson, and the Board have considered and agreed that 
Tim and Ishbel be put forward for re-election.
Timeliness and quality of Board information
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings by establishing procedures for:
> Distributing Board papers in advance of meetings and considering the adequacy of the information provided before making decisions; 
> Adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when Directors have concerns about the information available to them; and 
> Making the Company Secretary responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information. 
Corporate governance statement
 For the year ended 31 December 201 1 Hydrogen Group plc Annual Report 201 1 15
                                                                                                                                                                                             
Performance evaluation 
An evaluation of Board performance and effectiveness is undertaken annually . Each Director completes a detailed questionnaire giving their 
assessment of individual and collective performance. The results are discussed and debated at Board and Committee level to ensure that issues 
arising are effectively addressed. In 2011 no major issues were identified from the evaluation process.
The Remuneration Committee set financial and personal development objectives for the Executive Directors. Each Executive Director has  
a performance review conducted biannually by another Executive Director .
Going concern
The major areas which could affect the Group's financial position are detailed on page 21. Having taken account of the situation outlined there  
the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason they consider  
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dialogue with institutional and major shareholders 
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders by: 
> Making annual and interim presentations to institutional investors; 
> Meeting shareholders to discuss long term issues and obtain their views; 
> Communicating regularly throughout the year; and 
>  Regular meetings of the Board being used as the forum to ensure that Non-Executive Directors are updated on the views of major shareholders 
that have been communicated to the Executive Directors. 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
The Board has nominated Ishbel Macpherson as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director . 
Ishbel Macpherson is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman or Executive Directors. 
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting 
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourage their participation by providing  
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control. The Group's system of internal control is designed to 
safeguard the Group's assets and to ensure the reliability of information used within the business and for publication. Such a system is designed  
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it or its duly authorised committee for decision, 
aimed at maintaining full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues on an ongoing basis. 
The Group held ten Board meetings in 2011, nine of which were fully attended, and one where one Director was absent. 
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined responsibilities and delegation of authority . 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee's primary responsibilities are to review the financial statements; to review the internal control systems including risk 
management; to consider the appointment of the external auditors and their independence, and to review audit effectiveness. Annually , the Audit 
Committee considers the requirement for an internal audit function and, to date, has concluded that it is unnecessary for a group of the size and 
complexity of Hydrogen. This will be kept under review.
The Committee consists entirely of the independent Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director , 
Ishbel Macpherson. At the invitation of the Committee, the Finance Director , Chairman and representatives of the external auditors attend the  
Audit Committee meetings. The Audit Committee met without Executive Board members present once during the year , and had a meeting with  
the auditors without Executive Board members present.
The Audit Committee met four times during 2011 and the meetings were fully attended.
The Audit Committee's Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Group's website: www.hydrogengroup.com. 
Whistleblowing policy
Hydrogen Group operates a positive commitment and open approach to whistleblowing. It encourages all individuals to raise any concerns that they 
may have about the conduct of others in the business or the way in which the business is run. Martyn Phillips, Independent Non-Executive Director , is 
the Group's appointed person for all whistleblowing matters and his contact details are available to all staff, and are published on the Group's intranet. 