 The Directors recognise the importance of sound corporate
governance. The Company intends to comply with the
Corporate Governance Guidelines for AIM Companies 
as published by the Quoted Companies Alliance (as far 
as appropriate to the nature and size of the Company).
The Board
The Board comprises two executive and two non-executive
Directors. The members of the Board and their roles 
are given in the Directors' biographies on page 20.
The Board recognises that its composition should comply
as far as reasonably practicable with good practice. T o this
end, the Board recognises the need to recruit an additional
non-executive Director as soon as reasonably practicable.
The Company holds at least 10 Board meetings throughout
the year. The Board is responsible for formulating,
reviewing and approving the Group's strategy, budgets,
major items of capital expenditure and acquisitions.
The remuneration report (pages 18-19) highlights that
James Faulds has an interest in 471,000 ordinary shares
held by Fontmerle Limited, of which he is a director. 
James Faulds has therefore been deemed non-
independent by the Board. In its deliberation as to whether
or not a director is independent, the Board also takes into
account whether a director has business relationships 
with the Company or any of its related companies, and if so,
whether such relationships could interfere, or be reasonably
perceived to interfere, with the exercise of the director's
independent judgement with a view to the best interests 
of the Company. In this connection, the Board noted 
that James Faulds has no business relationships with the
Company other than his role as Non-executive Chairman.
The Board further considers that the integrity and
independence of James Faulds are beyond doubt in 
view of his credentials, his effectiveness, and his actual
conduct during Board and Board committee meetings. 
The remuneration report (pages 18-19) highlights that Mark
Hogarth has an interest in 220,029 ordinary shares held 
by Sigma T echnology Management Limited of which he 
is a director, 1,620,009 ordinary shares held by Sigma
T echnology Venture Partners and 1,245,625 ordinary
shares held by Sigma Innovation Fund (East of Scotland).
Both of these funds have appointed Sigma T echnology
Management Limited as manager. 
Mark Hogarth has therefore been deemed non-
independent by the Board. In its deliberation as to whether
or not a director is independent, the Board also takes 
into account whether a director has business relationships
with the Company or any of its related companies, and 
if so, whether such relationships could interfere, or be
reasonably perceived to interfere, with the exercise of the
director's independent judgement with a view to the best
interests of the Company. In this connection, the Board
noted that Mark Hogarth has no business relationships with
the Company other than his role as Non-executive Director.
The Board further considers that the integrity and
independence of Mark Hogarth are beyond doubt in 
view of his credentials, his effectiveness, and his actual
conduct during Board and Board committee meetings.
Board committees
The Directors have established an audit committee,
remuneration committee and nominations committee, each
with formally delegated rules and responsibilities. Each of
the committees currently comprises the non-executive
Directors and will meet at least twice each year in respect 
of the audit committee and once per year in respect of each
of the nominations committee and remuneration committee.
Audit committee
The audit committee is responsible for ensuring that the
financial performance of the Company is properly reported
on and monitored. It is also responsible for meeting the
auditors and reviewing the reports from the auditors
relating to the financial statements and internal control
systems. It will meet once a year with the auditors without
executive Board members present. The audit committee
comprises the non-executive Directors of the Company
and is chaired by Mark Hogarth.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee reviews the performance 
of the executive Directors and sets and reviews the scale
and structure of their remuneration and the terms of their
service agreements with due regard to the interests of
shareholders. In determining the remuneration of executive
Directors, the remuneration committee seeks to attract and
retain executives of the highest calibre. The remuneration
committee also make recommendations to the Board
concerning the allocation of share options to employees. 
Corporate Governance report 
14 No Director is permitted to participate in discussions 
or decisions concerning his own remuneration. The
remuneration committee comprises the non-executive
Directors of the Company and is chaired by James Faulds.
A separate report on remuneration is on pages 18-19,
which is to be approved by the shareholders at the annual
general meeting.
Nominations committee
The nominations committee meets as required for the
purpose of considering new or replacement appointments
to the Board. The nominations committee comprises the
non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired 
by James Faulds. 
Board attendance
There were 12 meetings held in the year attended by all
Directors with the exception of James Faulds who attended
11 meetings.
Share dealing code
The Company has adopted a share dealing code for
Directors' and key employees' share dealing which is
appropriate for an AIM quoted company. The Directors 
will comply with Rule 21 of the AIM Rules for Companies
relating to Directors' dealings and, in addition, will take all
reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the Company's
applicable employees.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Company's systems 
of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness
throughout the year. Such a system can only provide
reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has approved a financial reporting process
which includes, among other things, budgeting and
monthly reporting procedures.
Where there is insufficient knowledge or experience within
the Company, for example in the area of human resources,
the Company retains the services of consultants. 
Key internal controls include: revenue and cost of sales
reconciliations, credit control procedures, purchase and
payroll authorisations and full monthly balance sheet
reconciliation.
Risk management
A risk management process including establishing a risk
framework and compiling risk registers has been approved
by the Board and introduced with the assistance of external
consultants. The registers cover both strategic and
operational risks and identify possible impacts and
likelihoods and also the manner of treatment of the risk. The
registers are updated regularly or as circumstances change. 
Going concern
The business model of the Company together with the
principal risks & uncertainties are set out in the Operating
and Financial Review. Additionally the current financial
position of the Company is described in the Chairman's
statement and note 17 to the Financial Statements
highlights the Company's Risk management objectives
and policies. 
Having reviewed cash flow projections, the Directors believe
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore
adopted the going concern basis in preparing these
financial statements. Whilst there has been turmoil in the
wider economy, which has had a negative impact on results
in 2010 the Directors believe that the progress made in
identifying revenue streams through overseas resellers
along with an expectation of software licence revenue 
from the UK banking sector and the upturn in advertising
revenues mean that current projections are achievable. 
In addition, the Directors have considered scenarios where
software revenues are delayed. Under these scenarios the
Directors are satisfied that the cost base can be reduced
accordingly to enable the Company to continue to operate
within its current funding limits for at least 12 months from
the date of signing these financial statements.
Communication with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of communication
with shareholders. The Company has an investor relations
page on its website in accordance with AIM rule 26. The
Company uses its website www.i-designplc.com as a
means of providing information to shareholders and 
other related parties. In addition, the Company retains the
services of financial PR consultants, providing an additional
point of contact for investors. The Board encourages
shareholder participation at its annual general meeting
where shareholders can be updated on the Company's
activities and plans. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15 Leveraging sponsorship
investment through
integrated A TM marketing
Nationwide Building Society
Football Bond
To coincide with the 2010 FIFA World Cup and
their status as official sponsor of the England
team, Nationwide created a series of football-
focused ad campaigns, which were fully
integrated across a wide range of media
including in-branch posters, TV ads, online 
and ATM advertising, using atmAd.
The campaigns aimed to leverage their significant
sponsorship investment by engaging and
entertaining consumers through a series of ads
that featured the characters from TV comedy
Little Britain. The TV ads were, for the first time,
specifically re-shot for the ATM platform and the
campaign scheduling was managed through the
atmAd software. This integrated marketing
approach, which was so closely tied to the
football interest of the nation, demonstrates an
intelligent use of atmAd as part of an event-
targeted, cross media brand campaign.
Campaign highlights:
Event-led
communication
Bespoke, video-led
ATM campaign
Maximised
sponsorship
investment 