 20 | Ideal Shopping Direct PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
 
Corporate Governance 
 
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Company seeks to comply so far 
as possible with the voluntary Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the Quoted Companies 
Alliance (QCA), and the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Voting Policy issued by the National 
Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) in 2007. The Board is also aware of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance to which fully listed companies must comply or explain  and seeks to apply it 
where appropriate. 
 
The Board does not comply with the QCA and NAPF guidelines in one respect, in that it only has one 
independent Non-executive Director (Graham Cole), and not a minimum of two as required by the 
guidelines. Its other two Non-Executive Directors, Paul Wright and Valerie Kaye, do not qualify as 
independent  by virtue of the fact that as co-founders of the Company they have been Executive 
Directors in the past; and they also have substantial shareholdings in the Company, together controlling 
more than a third of its voting rights.  
 
Since 22 September 2009, Graham Cole has been the Independent Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and is also a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Further details are set out 
below. 
 
In all other respects the Board has complied with the QCA and NAPF guidelines and considers that the 
Board is operating effectively, with all members actively contributing to debate and decision-making. 
 
The Board 
 
The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, making decisions relating to the Group's 
strategic direction and measuring progress towards strategic goals. 
 
The Board has eleven scheduled meetings per annum, including one strategy meeting which is usually 
held off site. There was full attendance at all Board and Committee meetings during 2010. 
 
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, the full list is available from 
the Company Secretary. Examples of these include Group strategy and budget, Group capital structure, 
approval of financial results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual commitments, 
maintaining internal control and risk management, and approval of Group wide policies. 
 
At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director issue formal reports. The Board also 
receives a monthly report containing information on health and safety, shareholder register, regulatory 
compliance and corporate governance developments. Other matters are discussed by the Board as 
required, supported by a presentation or briefing paper where a decision is to be made by the Board. 
 
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken and circulated for approval. Any unresolved 
concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes. 
 
The Non-executive Directors have regular dialogue outside Board meetings.  
 
Directors 
 
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, Paul Wright, two additional Non-executive Directors, 
Val Kaye and Graham Cole, and two executive Directors, Mike Hancox who is the Chief Executive Officer 
and Ian Jebson who is the Finance Director and Company Secretary. The Board considers that Graham 
Cole is independent. Biographical details are set out on page 13. 
 
In general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is 
responsible for running the Company's business. 
 
Directors are required by the Company's Articles of Association to retire from the Board by rotation and 
offer themselves for re-election at least every three years. 
  Ideal Shopping Direct PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 |  21 
 
Board Committees 
  
The Audit Committee is chaired by Graham Cole, the other members are Paul Wright and Val Kaye. The 
Chief Executive, Mike Hancox and Ian Jebson, the Finance Director sometimes attend meetings by 
invitation, along with a representative from the Company's auditor. 
 
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year, to coincide with key dates in the Company's 
financial reporting and audit cycle, during 2010 it met in March and September.  
 
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: 
 
  Monitor the integrity of the Group's financial statements and public announcements relating to 
financial performance 
  Oversee the external audit process, including the appointment of the auditors, their objectiveness 
and independence and the scope and effectiveness of the audit 
  Monitor the effectiveness of internal controls. 
 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Paul Wright, the other members are Val Kaye and Graham 
Cole. Mike Hancox sometimes attends meetings by invitation. 
 
The Committee's responsibilities include: 
 
  Recommending to the Board the specific pay and benefits packages for the executive Directors 
and the Chairman, including bonus, pensions and any compensation payments 
  Approval of bonus for executive Directors and senior management 
  Approval of awards made to Directors and management under share incentive schemes. 
 
During the year the Committee met four times. No Director votes on his or her remuneration and advice is 
sought from the Company's Nominated Adviser as to the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman and 
the Non-executive Directors. 
 
 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Paul Wright and the other members are Val Kaye, Graham 
Cole and Mike Hancox. The Committee's responsibilities include: 
 
  Reviewing the composition and balance of the Board ( including succession planning) 
  Making recommendations on appointments to the Board.  
 
The Committee met once during the year. 
 
 
Advice and insurance 
 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. In addition Directors may 
seek legal advice at the Company's cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties. 
 
The Company purchases Directors' and Officers' Liability insurance cover for its Directors. Details of the 
qualifying third party indemnity given to Directors by the Company are set out in the Directors' Report. 
 
 
 
   22 | Ideal Shopping Direct PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
 
Shareholder relations 
 
As required by Rule 26 of the AIM Rules for Companies, we have a corporate website which contains up 
to date information relevant to shareholders and potential shareholders. Please see 
www.idealshoppingdirect.co.uk 
.  
 
Shareholders are invited to contact the Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director with any questions or 
concerns, on 01733 316203. We also have a dedicated contact email address for questions, 
ir@idealshoppingdirect.co.uk, this goes direct to the Finance Director and members of his team.  
 
There is a formal investor relations programme based around results presentations and trading 
statements. In addition analyst / shareholder visits are arranged. The Chairman and executive Directors 
feed back the results of meetings with shareholders to the Board. 
 
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their 
questions.  
 
 
Risk management and internal control 
 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. However such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against 
material loss and misstatement. The Group does not employ a separate internal audit function due to the 
relatively small size of the Group. Also the Directors and key management personnel are close to the 
business and are directly involved in the operation and monitoring of the systems of internal controls. 
Over the last two years the Group's auditors have reported consistent improvement in the control 
environment. This area will be kept under review as part of the Board's assessment of the Group's 
systems of internal control. 
 
 
The key elements of the Group's system of internal control are as follows: 
 
 The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing the system of internal control. 
This risk management approach is used to focus available resources on the Group's most 
significant areas of risk and to determine key control objectives.  
 The Group has in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility, 
delegation of authority and reporting requirements. 
 The executive Directors are closely involved in the management of the business at a detailed 
level.  This is supported by reviews of daily, weekly and monthly analyses of the performance 
of the business and key performance indicators associated with the trading risks facing the 
Group.  
 Detailed annual budgets are prepared, reviewed in detail and agreed by the Board, and actual 
performance is reported against these budgets on a regular basis. Major commercial, 
technological and financial risks are assessed as part of this process. 
 The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of the data held on its 
computer systems and also has in place disaster recovery plans for certain key areas of the 
business. 
 Controls were reviewed and further strengthened by the Board during 2010, with particular 
emphasis on the quality of management information, control of cash and stock, and 
reinforcement of delegated authorities. 
  
   Ideal Shopping Direct PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 |  23 
 
Auditor independence 
 
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to review and monitor the external auditor's independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK 
professional and regulatory requirements; and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm. 
 
The Audit Committee reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services supplied by the external 
auditors to the Group, seeking to balance objectivity and value for money.  In determining policy, the 
Audit Committee has taken into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external audit firm, and does not agree to the auditor providing a service if, having regard 
to the ethical guidance, the result is that: 
 
 the external auditor audits its own firm's work; 
 the external auditor makes management decisions for the Company; 
 a mutuality of interest is created; or 
 the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  