 16 IGas Energy Plc
 Annual report and accounts 2012/13
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Committed to the environment
 We want to build on 
our community heritage 
continuing to provide 
jobs and grow local 
economies. 
Openness and transparency is at the heart 
of everything we do as a company and as 
a wider industry. The UKOOG Charter will 
ensure we, as an operator, continue to be 
aligned to the needs of the community. 
Our people
Our workforce is an integral and critical 
part of every aspect of our business and 
a key focus is developing the skills of our 
team. We are conscious of the role we 
can play in helping to support local 
employment and the local economy. 
We currently have five employees at 
different stages of their apprenticeships 
with IGas. Including managers and 
supervisors, we have over 90 employees 
engaged in production, maintenance and 
well servicing operations across our sites. 
Of these, more than 30 have in excess of 
15 years' service with the company and 
collectively, including trainees and 
apprentices, average service is over 10 
years. Our drivers and vehicle maintenance 
team average over 12 years' service. This 
provides us with a solid base of knowledge 
to progress our operations into the future 
with a significant understanding of the 
geology and with a deep understanding of 
the communities and the environment in 
which we operate. 
We are committed not only to developing 
our people and continuing to improve our 
internal skills but also to provide a positive 
and safe working environment for all 
staff and contractors.
Summary
At IGas, we are committed to the 
environment, our employees and the 
communities in which we operate.
During the year we have worked in 
collaboration with Community Liaison 
Groups, Planning officials, the Health and 
Safety Executive, (HSE ) the Environment 
Agency (EA ), the government 
Department of Energy & Climate Change 
(DECC ) and the United Kingdom Onshore 
Operators Group (UKOOG ), to ensure  
all our stakeholders have a thorough 
understanding of our activities. We are 
committed to being aligned in our work 
with these organisations to ensure the 
development of, and further investment 
in, the onshore oil and gas industry. 
Working collaboratively with the wider 
industry and associated partners means 
that together we can continue to support 
the regional and local economies and 
ensure Britain's future energy security.
Since the lifting of the restrictions on 
exploration for shale gas in December 2012 
and the establishment of the Office of 
Unconventional Gas and Oil, UKOOG 
has established a Community Engagement 
Charter, setting out guiding principles 
to ensure open and transparent 
communications between industry, 
stakeholder groups and the communities 
in which we operate. 17 IGas Energy Plc
 Annual report and accounts 2012/13
Overview Business 
Review
Corporate 
Governance
Financial 
Statements 18 IGas Energy Plc
 Annual report and accounts 2012/13
Corporate Social Responsibility  
Report continued
All operators displaying the UKOOG 
logo will have to adopt these as minimum 
standards and will be measured against them 
on a regular basis. Each operator will report 
annually to UKOOG on their performance 
and UKOOG will produce and publish an 
annual industry report on its website.
Full details of the UKOOG Charter can 
be found at www.ukoog.org.uk.
IGas is a signatory to this charter.
IGas Energy Community Fund
The IGas Energy Community Fund is a 
further commitment we make towards 
the vitality of the communities in which 
we operate. Our Community Fund has 
committed to distribute several hundred 
thousand pounds a year to projects that 
are charitable, educational or benevolent 
in purpose. It is an independently managed 
fund with projects being chosen by 
members from community groups 
and parish councils from areas in, 
and adjacent to, our operations. 
These projects aim to benefit groups 
of people within the local communities 
as well as wildlife and the surrounding 
environment. Projects have supported 
children and young people, vulnerable 
members of our communities, regeneration 
projects, self-help groups delivering basic 
services, wildlife projects and projects 
providing education and skills 
development opportunities. 
Over recent years, the fund has 
helped projects ranging from nature 
reserves to playgrounds. We provided 
funds to lay on water to a church in 
Hampshire to enable it to be used 
for wider community gatherings.
At Albury in Surrey, grants have helped 
the parish council to bring about a series 
of improvements to enhance the overall 
village environment.
Currently, we are supporting three separate 
projects where people in rural communities 
want to buy potentially life-saving 
emergency equipment in places where 
999 crews will take time to respond.
Further projects are described in the case 
studies above.
Employee volunteering 
and engagement
The social investment we make through 
our Community Fund is complemented by 
employee engagement. Many of our team 
at IGas have independently raised their 
own funds for charities. We admire their 
commitment and initiative towards looking 
after each other and our communities 
and encourage their efforts with matched 
funding. Charities which the team at 
IGas have supported include a number 
of cancer foundations including the 
Everyman Foundation. 
Our health, safety and security
The security, health and safety of our 
workforce is of paramount importance 
and an integral part of everything we 
do. A positive, safe and productive work 
environment for all of our team comes 
from ensuring the contribution of each 
team member towards building and 
sustaining a strong safety culture. 
We conduct routine assessments of our 
operating standards and review on an 
on-going basis our facility HSE and ER 
Plans. These include risk assessments and 
mitigation that extend from site facilities 
to considering issues within the local 
geographical area. 
Our community
IGas has a long track record of engaging 
with the communities in which it operates. 
We are a British business and our 
workforce largely lives and works in the 
areas in which we operate which helps 
build the strength and the quality of 
our relationship with local residents. 
Local engagement
We are committed to ensuring we work 
with the neighbouring communities at 
each of our operating locations through 
our local liaison groups, ensuring 
transparency and an opportunity for open 
and effective dialogue. We recognise that 
we are a part of the community and we 
are committed to in-depth and meaningful 
consultations, working together with the 
aim to bring real benefits to the area 
and address any concerns. This local 
engagement occurs both before and 
during the planning process and continues 
throughout the life of the development.
UKOOG Charter
In June the industry body, UKOOG, 
announced a charter for community 
engagement. The Charter exists to ensure 
open and transparent communications 
between industry, stakeholder groups and 
the communities in which they operate.
Its objectives, to which we fully subscribe, 
are threefold:
 	 to identify and proactively address local 
issues and concerns; 
 	 to facilitate the sustainable development 
of extractive resources; and 
 	 to achieve an appropriate balance 
between the safe production of energy 
and the community's needs.
SCHOOL ALLOTMENT BOOSTED
Penketh South Primary School in Cheshire 
has received  4,000 from the community 
fund towards a greenhouse and raised 
planting beds for its allotments. Residents 
from a neighbouring care home join pupils 
in growing vegetables which are used in 
the school kitchen and sold to further 
fund the project.
POOL MADE SAFE
A  15,000 grant from the company's 
community fund has resulted in much 
needed repairs to the local swimming 
pool at Shere in Surrey. The pool is a 
popular facility amongst people from 
villages close to the IGas wellsite at 
Albury. There had been growing concern 
about the dangers of the previously 
uneven pool surround. 19 IGas Energy Plc
 Annual report and accounts 2012/13
Overview Business 
Review
Corporate 
Governance
Financial 
Statements
In terms of site safety, we have Emergency 
Preparedness and Response arrangements 
and Incident Response and Reporting 
processes in place. We place great 
importance in ensuring the effectiveness of 
our response, and the ultimate safety and 
security of our site personnel and others 
who may be affected by our activities. 
Our Management System is aligned to the 
requirements of the occupational health 
and safety standard OHSAS 18001, and we 
remain committed to pursuing certification 
to this standard.
Our Lost Time Injuries (LTIs ) for 2012 
continue to decline, which is a result of our 
continued commitment to safe operations. 
Our environment
We have successfully extended our 
certification to the Quality Management 
standard ISO 9001, and the Environmental 
Management standard, ISO 14001 through 
our on-going commitment to maintaining 
the requirements of these standards.
Our mandatory environmental operating 
standards are applied to all operating 
facilities. Initial risk assessments are 
conducted, along with baseline surveys, 
applying impact mitigation throughout 
all phases up to site restoration. 
Our desire to sustain and enhance 
the environments in which we operate 
means that we work in collaboration with 
organisations involved in protecting local 
flora and fauna including, for example, The 
Royal Society for Protection of Birds. 
 We have been 
embedded with our local 
communities for decades 
and we seek to work 
collaboratively, which is 
why we consult at every 
stage of our projects. 