 13 | Annual report and accounts 2006 | Imagelinx plc
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good corporate 
governance. Whilst the Company does not comply with the Combined Code, this statement describes how the principles of corporate governance 
are applied.
Following publication of the Higgs Review - The Role and Effectiveness of Non-executive Directors and the Smith Report - Combined Code Guidance 
for Audit Committees in January 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued the Combined Code on 23 July 2003, which came into effect for reporting 
years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. The principles and provisions of the Code have been considered by the Board. The Board will continue 
to review its practices in the light of the Code.
The Company moved from a full listing on the London Stock Exchange to a listing on AIM on 26 September 2003 and as such the Company is not 
covered by the Listing Rules. Nevertheless, in the interests of providing maximum transparency to shareholders, the Board complies with those 
provisions of the Code it deems relevant, ensuring that embedded risk controls are in place.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions at this year's AGM to be held on 27 April 2007.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive and two other Non-executive Directors. Short biographies of each 
of the Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 8. There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company, 
the Chairman being responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive for implementing Group strategy. The Board structure ensures that 
no individual or group dominates the decision-making process. The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. 
A statement of the Directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 12 and a statement on going concern is given on page 6.
The Board has not appointed a Finance Director as the Chief Executive takes direct responsibility for the finance function and the size of the Group does 
not warrant a separate Executive Director for this area.
The Board considers that David Straker-Smith is deemed not to be independent under the definition of independence in the Code as he has 
a substantial shareholding in the Company.
The Board also considers that Dr. Franz Wimpffen is deemed not to be independent under the definition of independence in the Code, as he represents 
LTG Holding GmbH, a significant shareholder and is a former Executive Director of the Company.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The need for Director training is regularly assessed by the Company. 
The Directors take independent professional advice as required.
The Board met formally on nine occasions in 2006 and managed the Company through a formal schedule of matters. These include overall 
management of the Group; approval of strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals; approval of commercial strategy, including the annual 
business plan covering operating and capital expenditure budgets; approval of the financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring 
projects; treasury policy; control, audit and risk management; and remuneration.
In 2007 the Board will meet once every two months at set dates and manage the Company through a formal schedule of matters as referred to above. 
It will arrange other meetings if required. The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive 
Directors are fully considered. The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Board papers being sent out several days prior to the meeting. 
It delegates responsibility to the Board Committees detailed on pages 13 and 14.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is Dr. Franz Wimpffen. It is responsible for proposing candidates 
for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board. In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants will be used 
to assist the process. All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is Dr. Franz Wimpffen. It is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company's framework of Executive remuneration and its cost. The Remuneration Committee 
determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including performance related bonus schemes, 
pension rights and compensation payments. The Board itself determines the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration 
Committee will be advised as necessary by a firm of remuneration consultants.
Further details of the Company's policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration Report 
on pages 15 to 17. The report has been prepared by the Board following the provisions in the Combined Code.
Corporate governance
_1_IMX_ar06_back.indd   4 28/03/2007   12:37:20 14 | Annual report and accounts 2006 | Imagelinx plc
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Straker-Smith and its other member is Dr. Franz Wimpffen. It meets not less than twice annually. 
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Group's external auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the 
Chief Executive and the Executive Chairman.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and annual accounts on or before their submission 
to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders. The Audit Committee 
advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work and discusses the nature, 
scope and results of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of communication with shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood. The Chief Executive's 
Business Review provides a detailed review of the business and future developments. There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including 
presentations following the Group's announcement of the full year and interim results.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation. Details of resolutions to be proposed 
at the AGM on 27 April 2007 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting, which is enclosed with this Annual Report.
Risk and internal controls
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group's system of internal control. Internal control systems are designed to meet the 
particular needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The Group's systems and controls are designed to safeguard the Group's assets and to ensure reliability of information 
used within the business and for publication.
Day to day responsibility for the management and operations of the business has been delegated to a Divisional Board. This ensures that the business 
obtains maximum leverage from sector specific skills. Clear levels of authority exist for the Group's Executive Management and the Divisional Board. 
Subsidiaries are given autonomy to manage operations, whilst operating within an established control environment. The Divisional Board meets 
on a regular basis and Group Executive Management attends these meetings. This ongoing process identifies, evaluates and manages the significant 
risks, which are regularly reviewed by the Group's Board.
The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal controls are as follows:
  Management structure 
  The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. 
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group's affairs.
  Quality and integrity of personnel 
  The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses. High quality personnel 
are seen as an essential part of internal control.
  Identification of business risks 
  The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course of action to manage 
those risks.
  Budgetary processes 
  The Board is responsible for Group strategy, approving budgets and plans, approving acquisitions or disposals and determining treasury and dividend 
policy. Each year the Board approves the annual budget and strategic plan. Key risk areas are identified.
  Monitoring and reporting performance 
  Monthly results, including variances from plans and prior year, together with updated forecasts for current performance for up to 24 months are reported 
to the Board. These reports cover sales, profits and losses, cash flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets. Key risk areas are identified. 
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting process to the Board.
  Investment appraisal 
  Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals 
have to be submitted to the Board. Reviews are carried out after the capital expenditure or acquisition is complete, and for some projects, during 
the project or acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; major overruns are investigated. Proposals for research and development programmes 
beyond specified limits are considered by the Board. Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
  Audit Committee 
  The Audit Committee monitors the controls which are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment. It considers and determines 
relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors. It reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control 
as it operates during the year and reports conclusions to the Board. It assists the Board in the discharge of its duties regarding the Company's 
financial statements, accounting policies and maintenance of internal controls and risk management systems.
Retirement and appointment of Directors
Dr. Franz Wimpffen retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Corporate governance continued
_1_IMX_ar06_back.indd   5 28/03/2007   12:37:20