 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2009
The Group is fully committed to the highest standards
of corporate governance, however, it is not required to
comply with the governance requirements set down in
the Combined Code. The Board recognises the value of
the Code and are committed to meeting its
requirements as far as can be reasonably expected for a
public company of its size and nature. The commentary
below therefore reflects voluntary compliance that has
been achieved in the year.
Board of Directors
The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors
which currently comprises one executive and one non-
executive director. The key positions of Chairman and
Chief Executive are fulfilled by two separate individuals
with the Chief Executive retaining operational control of
the Group. The Board currently considers that the
breadth of experience of the Directors is sufficient to
provide effective leadership for the Company and the
Group, however, the Board intends to appoint a further
non-executive director in order to comply with the
Combined Code.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at the
first opportunity after their initial appointment and, in
accordance with the Combined Code, at least every
three years thereafter.
The board meets a minimum of eight times during the
year and is responsible for overall Group strategy,
approval of annual budgets and monitoring of those
budgets, approval of major capital projects and
monitoring exposure to key business risks. The Board
delegates day to day and business management control
to the Executive Director. All Directors have access to
independent professional advice, if necessary at the
Group's expense.
The Group has established Remuneration, Audit and
Nomination Committees of the Board with formally
delegated duties and responsibilities.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for
reviewing and recommending the framework and policy
for the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive
Director and Senior Executives. The committee is also
responsible for the approval of proposals for granting of
share options.
The members of the Remuneration Committee during
the year included MD Abrahams CBE, DL (Chairman of
the Committee), The Rt Hon Michael Howard QC MP
and Len Sanderson. The committee met twice in the
year.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the
board in meeting its responsibilities with regard to
external financial reporting. Its duties include reviewing
the Group's financial controls, financial statements,
preliminary announcements and any formal
announcements relating to financial performance.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters
pertaining to the appointment and remuneration of
external auditors, including the scope of the audit and
its cost-effectiveness. The committee also annually
reviews the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors, accounting for any non-audit services
provided by them.
The external auditors, Deloitte LLP, are normally invited
to attend all meetings of this committee.
The members of the Audit Committee during the year
were MD Abrahams CBE, DL (Chairman of the
Committee) and The Rt Hon Michael Howard QC MP .
The committee met twice in the year. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size
and composition of the Board and makes
recommendations to the Board in respect of all new
Board appointments.
The members of the Nomination during the year
included MD Abrahams CBE, DL (Chairman of the
Committee), The Rt Hon Michael Howard QC MP and
Len Sanderson. The committee met twice in the year. 
Relations with Shareholders
The board considers communication with both its
institutional and private shareholders as a high priority.
The principal communication with investors is through
the Annual General Meeting, the provision of Annual
and Interim Reports and the company's website.
The Company's brokers provide summary feedback
from institutional shareholders and the Chairman is
available to meet institutional shareholders.
All shareholders receive at least twenty one days notice
of the Annual General Meeting and separate resolutions
are put forward on each substantially separate issue. 
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the
establishment and maintenance of the Group's systems
of internal control. 
While a system of internal control can only provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance the key features
of the Groups internal control structures are as follows:
imJack plc
(formerly Amteus plc)
7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
continued
l Management Structure and Defined
Responsibilities - The Board meets regularly and
monitors the key business risks and reviews the
strategic direction of the Group. It also has
responsibilities as noted above. The board reserves
to itself a range of key decisions to ensure it retains
proper control of the Group. However it delegates
authority to Executive Director and Senior
Executives who are responsible for the day to day
management of the business.
l Timely production of comprehensive
management information - There is a
comprehensive system of budgeting and
forecasting which is regularly presented to the
board. The performance of the Group is reported
monthly and compared to the latest forecasts.
Share Options
The Group has previously established and granted
share options in an approved share options scheme
under the Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme.
Further share options will be issued as the board deem
necessary in order to recruit, retain and incentivise key
staff and align their interests with that of the
shareholders. Such grants are approved by the
Remuneration Committee. During the year no share
options were issued.
Going Concern
After making all appropriate enquiries, the Directors
have reasonable expectations that the Company and
the Group have sufficient resources to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future however as set out
in the Chairman's Statement there remains significant
uncertainty in this respect. The Directors have
continued to adopt the going concern basis for the
preparation of the financial statements. The Directors'
consideration of the going concern basis is set out in
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors' Responsibilities Statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors are required to prepare the group financial
statements in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
have elected to prepare the parent company financial
statements in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law).
Under company law the directors must not approve the
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and
of the profit or loss of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements,
the directors are required to:
l select suitable accounting policies and then apply
them consistently;
l make judgments and accounting estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
l state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards
have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements; and
l prepare the financial statements on the going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements,
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that
directors:
l properly select and apply accounting policies;
l present information, including accounting policies,
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,
comparable and understandable information; 
l provide additional disclosures when compliance
with the specific requirements in IFRSs are
insufficient to enable users to understand the
impact of particular transactions, other events and
conditions on the entity's financial position and
financial performance; and
l make an assessment of the company's ability to
continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the company's transactions and disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the company and enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the company's website. Legislation in the
United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
imJack plc
(formerly Amteus plc)
8