 29
Management and governance
3
Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings PLC Annual report & accounts 2013
The UK Corporate Governance Code is intended to promote the principles of 
openness, integrity and accountability. 
The Company fully supports these principles and, although not required to do so, the Directors have decided to provide Corporate 
Governance disclosures.
The Board has formally adopted the principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code. However, the 
Directors have taken into consideration the Guidance for Smaller Quoted Companies on the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
produced by the Quoted Companies Alliance, and the size and the nature of the Group in deciding how to apply these principles  
within the Group. 
Directors
As at the Group's year end 31 March 2013, the Board comprised of four Executive Directors, a Non-executive Chairman and three 
other Non-executive Directors. Details of the current Directors are set out on page 26. The composition of the Board is designed to 
provide an appropriate balance of executive and non-executive experience and skills and will be reviewed regularly. The Board look  
to meet in a formal manner on a bi-monthly basis at the head office in Boldon, Tyne and Wear and elsewhere, with additional meetings 
held as required.
A summary of Board meetings attended in the 12 months to 31 March 2013 is shown below: 
 
Board meetings
 
  
Director   Attended Eligible
Dr A F Martin  9 9
Dr P O Dahlen  8 9
Mr C H F Yates  1 1
Dr M L Garrity  8 9
Mr A Rousseau  9 9
Dr E D Blair  9 9
Dr B Wittek  8 9 
Mr R Sackers  8 9
Mr P Hailes  - -
Mr C I Cookson  1 3
Dr R T Duggan  5 5
Mr G T Murray  7 7
It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the Directors receive all of the information necessary for the effective 
performance of their duties. In the furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and service of the Company 
Secretary and are permitted to take independent professional advice, where necessary, and to undertake any training considered 
appropriate, both at the Company's expense.
The Chairman, Dr A F Martin, has a number of other Non-executive Directorships, details of which are shown on page 24. The 
Chairman is considered by the Board to be independent and is responsible for the running of the Board. The Board also considers  
Dr E D Blair and Mr R Sackers to be independent.
The Executive Directors are Dr P O Dahlen, Mr C H F Yates, Dr M L Garrity and Mr A Rousseau. The offices of Chairman and  
Chief Executive are separate.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining and directing the Group's corporate strategy. This is achieved through 
consideration and approval of the annual business plan and financial strategy and through the monitoring and discussion of financial 
results and corporate matters, including the exposure to key business risks and the results of individual trading subsidiaries, their 
annual budgets and financial strategy, at regular Board meetings.
Corporate governance report 30
Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings PLC Annual report & accounts 2013
Directors' commitments
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed to enable them to discharge their duties. In particular, detailed 
management accounts are prepared and copies sent to all Board members every month. In advance of each Board meeting, 
appropriate documentation on all items to be discussed is circulated.
Before appointment, Non-executive Directors are required to assure the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary  
to properly fulfil their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and to discuss matters on the telephone.
Board committees
The Board has established the following committees, under specific terms of reference: 
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Mr R Sackers, (a qualified accountant and Chairman of the committee), Dr A F Martin and Dr B Wittek. 
The Board considers that this committee is independent, as two of the members are independent Non-executive Directors. The Audit 
Committee is responsible for the relationship with the Group's external auditors, the review of the Group's financial reporting and  
the Group's internal controls.
The committee will normally meet at least three times a year and is responsible for monitoring the quality of internal control, ensuring 
that the financial performance of the Company is properly measured and reported on, meeting with the auditors and reviewing reports 
from the auditors. It meets with the auditors at least twice a year.
The Audit Committee has undertaken an assessment of the auditors' independence, including:
 	 a review of non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees
 	 discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect 
independence or the perception of independence
 	 a review of the auditors' own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the 
audit, including regular rotation of the audit partner, and 
 	 obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
An analysis of fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out  
in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The Board is satisfied that the external auditors are independent in the discharge of their audit responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Dr E D Blair (Chairman), Dr A F Martin and Dr B Wittek. It reviews the performance of 
Executive Directors, sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and reviews the basis of their service agreements with due 
regard to the interests of shareholders and the policy set by the Board (on the recommendation of the Committee). The Board itself 
determines the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee also makes recommendations to the 
Board concerning the allocation of share options to employees. No Director is permitted to participate in discussions or decisions 
concerning his or her own remuneration. The details of Directors' remuneration are contained within the Directors' remuneration  
report on pages 32 to 36.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Dr A F Martin (Chairman), Dr B Wittek and Dr E D Blair. The Nomination Committee  
is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, establishing appropriate succession plans for the 
Executive Directors and other senior executives in the Group and for the nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies, where 
required. The Committee will meet on an occasional basis, as matters arise.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with its shareholders. The Group engages a firm of financial 
PR consultants to provide another channel of communication to shareholders, potential investors and analysts. Throughout the year, 
the Board maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors and brokers' analysts, providing them with such information on the 
Company's progress as is permitted within the guidelines of the AIM Rules and requirements of the relevant legislation. In particular, 
twice a year, at the time of announcing the Group's half and full year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director.
Corporate governance report 31
Management and governance
3
Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings PLC Annual report & accounts 2013
Accountability and audit
The Board believes that the annual report and financial statements play an important part in presenting all shareholders with  
an assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
The Chairman's statement, Operational review and Financial review contain a detailed consideration of the Group's position  
and prospects.
Internal controls
The Board has designed the Group's systems of internal control in order to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that its 
assets are safeguarded, that transactions are authorised and properly recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either 
prevented or will be detected within a timely period. However, no system of internal control can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives or provide absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Group's 
systems of internal control include regular meetings of management to discuss operational, strategic and risk issues, designed to 
ensure that the possibility of misstatement is kept to a minimum.
The system in place for financial reporting ensures that the Board receives management accounts, forecast variance analysis and 
other ad hoc reports on a timely basis.
The Group has not implemented an internal audit function because the Directors believe that in the past the controls in place have 
been appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group's activities. Going forward, however, consideration will be made as regards 
to an internal audit function as part of an overall risk management review.
Going concern
The Board has considered the applicability of the going concern basis in the preparation of these financial statements. This included 
the review of internal budgets and financial results. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason they have adopted the going concern 
basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
Compliance statement
The Board considers that, throughout the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group has substantially complied with the principles set  
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (June 2010) as appropriate to the size and nature of the Group.
By order of the Board
Andrew Davison LLB
Company Secretary
14 June 2013