 INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland) 
Page 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) issued by the Finance Committee on 
Corporate Governance in October 2000, which sets out the principles, best practices and guidelines 
on structures and processes that companies may use in their operations towards achieving  
the optimal governance framework. 
 
The Board believes that the practice of ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance 
throughout the Group is fundamental and vital in discharging its responsibilities to protect and 
enhance shareholders' value and improve the financial performance of the Group. 
 
The Board fully supports the recommendations of the Code. The Board has considered the manner in 
which it has applied the Principles of the Code and steps are currently being taken to evaluate the 
status of the Group's corporate governance procedures and to implement the best practices of the 
Code. 
 
The Board considers that it has complied with the best practices as set out in the Code for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2002. 
 
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 
The Board has six members, of whom five are Independent Non-Executive Directors. Tuan Haji 
Mohd Ariff bin Taib resigned on 5 September 2002. No individual or group of individuals dominates 
the Board's decision making and the number of Directors reflects fairly the investment of the 
shareholders. The Executive Chairman at the Board is Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf. 
 
The composition of the Board reflects a balance with a mix of technical, administrative and business 
experiences that has been vital to the direction of the Group. 
 
The Board meets on a regular basis, and also on other occasions as required, to approve the annual 
financial results and any other matters that require the Board approval. Due notice is given for all 
scheduled meetings for all matters reserved specifically for its decision. Regular and ad-hoc reports 
and presentations to the Board and its Committee ensure that the Directors are supplied timely 
information on financial, operational, legal, regulatory, corporate and strategic matters. 
 
The Directors also have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary in 
furtherance of their duties and may take independent professional advice at the Company's expense. 
 
All Directors offer themselves, on a rotation basis, for re-election by shareholders at the annual 
general meetings. The Articles of Association of the Company has been amended to provide for all 
Directors to submit themselves for re-election at least once every 3 years. 
 
The Independent Non-Executive Directors fulfill a pivotal role in corporate accountability. None of 
these Directors participate in the day-to-day management in the Group. 
 
In accordance to the requirement of the Code, Tuan Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir has been 
appointed as the senior Independent Non-Executive Director to be available to deal with concerns 
regarding the Group where it could be inappropriate for these to be dealt with by the Chairman. 
 
A statement by the Directors and their responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is 
included on page 26. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland) 
Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attendance at Board Meetings 
 
Date 27/02/02 23/05/02 21/06/02 22/06/02 
Tuan Haji Mohd Ariff bin Taib     
Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf     
Dato' Hashim bin Md Salleh     
Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed     
Encik Abdul Khudus bin Mohd. Naaim     
Tuan Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir     
Mr. Alan Maitland Dewar McWilliam     
Total Board Meetings 4 
All meetings were held at 22
nd
 Floor Menara 
Promet, Kuala Lumpur except on 21 and 22 
June held at the Perhentian Island Resort, 
Terengganu. 
 
The Board has also delegated certain responsibilities to other Board committee, which operate within 
clearly defined terms of reference. 
 
 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
 
Attendance at Audit Committee Meetings 
 
Date 27/02/02 23/05/02 26/08/02 18/11/02 
Dato' Hashim bin Md Salleh     
Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed     
Encik Abdul Khudus bin Mohd. Naaim     
Tuan Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir     
Total Audit Committee Meetings 4 
All meetings were held at 22
nd
 Floor Menara 
Promet, Kuala Lumpur. 
 
The terms of reference of the Committee, is in accordance with the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange 
(KLSE) Listing Requirements. The terms of reference, which outline the Committee's functions and 
duties, are furnished separately in the Annual Report. 
 
The Committee has reviewed the Group's quarterly and annual financial statements as well as any 
related party transactions prior to their approval by the Board. It has further reviewed with the 
external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, the scope of their engagement, their fees as well as the 
accounting and reporting matters emanating from their examination of the annual financial 
statements. The Committee has also been appraised on significant risk, control, regulatory and 
financial matters that have come to the attention of the external auditors in the course of their 
examination. The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets annually with the external auditors 
without the presence of the Executive Chairman of the Board. 
 
The Committee is aware of the risk management, control and governance processes relating to 
critical corporate and operational areas. It also closely monitors the recommendations made in order 
to obtain assurance that all key risk and control concerns have been duly addressed. 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)  INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland) 
Page 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
 
The Directors' Remuneration Committee (Remuneration Committee) was set up on 20 February 
2003. The Remuneration Committee comprises all Independent Non-Executive Directors and is 
headed by Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed. A policy framework will be implemented to assess all 
elements of the remuneration and other terms of employment for the Executive Chairman. The 
Executive Chairman abstains from the deliberations and voting on decisions in respect of his 
remuneration at the Board level. 
 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors will be a matter to be decided by the Board and 
approved by the shareholders. A full statement on directors' remuneration is included on pages 16-18. 
 
 
NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
 
The Nominating Committee was set up on 20 February 2003 and is headed by Dato' Adnan bin 
Maaruf. The Nominating Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on all 
new nominees to the Board as well as Committees of the Board. The Committee will review the 
required mix of skills and experience of the Directors, in determining the appropriate Board balance 
and size of non-executive participation. 
 
 
STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL 
 
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls covering 
not only financial controls but also operational and compliance controls, as well as risk management. 
The internal control system involves each subsidiary business and is designed to meet the needs of 
each subsidiary, to ensure that the risks faced by the business in pursuit of its objectives are identified 
and managed at known acceptable levels. The Group will be continuously reviewing the adequacy 
and integrity of its system of internal control. A full statement on internal control is included on   
pages 14-15. 
 
The Board also acknowledges the internal audit function as an integral part of an effective system of 
corporate governance. In this regard, the Board has taken steps to establish a proper internal audit 
division to undertake the internal audit functions within the Group. 
 
 
SHAREHOLDERS COMMUNICATIONS AND INVESTOR RELATIONS POLICY 
 
The Group believes in establishing clear and effective communications with its shareholders. The 
Annual Report and the quarterly announcements are the primary modes of communication to report 
on the Group's business activities and financial performance to all shareholders. Shareholders also 
have the opportunity to put forward questions at the Annual General Meeting where the Directors are 
available to discuss aspects of the Group's business activities and performance. 
 
 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)  INCH KENNETH KAJANG RUBBER PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
(990261-M)(Incorporated in Scotland) 
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL AUDITED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
The Board has seen and approved the Annual Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 
December 2002, and collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the 
information given and confirm that after making reasonable enquiries to the best of their knowledge 
and belief, there are no other facts, the omission of which would make any statement or information 
therein misleading. 
 
This statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 23 April 
2003. 
 
 
 
Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf 
Executive Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.) 