 10
Corporate 
Governance
The Board welcomes the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Finance Committee on Corporate 
Governance which sets out the principles, best practices and guidelines on structures and processes that companies may 
use in their operations towards achieving the optimal governance framework.
The Board believes in the practice of ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group 
is fundamental and vital in discharging its responsibilities to protect and enhance shareholders value and the fi nancial 
performance of the Group.
The Board fully supports the recommendations of the Code. Within the Group, steps are currently being taken to 
evaluate the status of the Group's corporate governance procedures and to implement the Code's best practices.
The Board considers that it has complied with the best practices as set out in the Code for the fi nancial year ended 
31 December 2005.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board has six members and one alternate member, of whom fi ve are Independent Non- Executive Directors. No 
individual or group of individuals dominates the Board's decision making and the number of Directors refl ects fairly the 
investment of the shareholders. The Executive Chairman at the Board is Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf.
The Composition of the Board refl ects a balance with a mix of technical, administrative and business experiences that 
has been vital to the direction of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis, and also on other occasions as required, to approve the annual fi nancial results and 
any other matters that require the Board approval. Due notice is given for all scheduled meetings for all matters reserved 
specifi cally for its decision. Regular and ad-hoc reports and presentations to the Board and its Committee ensure that the 
Directors are supplied timely information on fi nancial, operational, legal, regulatory, corporate and strategic matters.
The Directors also have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary in furtherance of their duties 
and may take independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
All Directors offer themselves, on a rotation basis, for re-election by shareholders at the annual general meetings at least 
once every 3 years.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors fulfi ll a pivotal role in corporate accountability. None of these Directors 
participate in the day to day management in the Group.
A statement by the Directors and their responsibilities for preparing the fi nancial statements is included in page 28. 11
Corporate 
Governance
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (cont'd)
Directors' Training
All the Directors have attended and completed the Mandatory Accreditation Programme conducted by the Research 
Institute of Investment Analysts Malaysia (now known as Bursatra Sdn Bhd).  Each Director has also accumulated the 
Continuing Education Programmes points for the years 2003 and 2004.
Under the revised Bursa Malaysia Listing Requirements, the Board will assume the onus of determining or overseeing 
the training needs of their Directors from year 2005 onwards.  Directors are encouraged to attend various external 
professional programmes necessary to ensure that they are kept abreast on various issues facing the changing business 
environment within which the Group operates.
Attendance at Board Meetings in 2005
 1-2005 2-2005
 24/03/05 23/11/05
 11.30am 11.30am
Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf    
Abdul Khudus bin Mohd. Naaim    
Dato' Hashim bin Md Salleh*    
Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed    
Dr. Radzuan bin A. Rahman    
Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir    
Alan Maitland Dewar McWilliam - -
Tengku Mohamed Fauzi bin Tengku Abdul Hamid    
* resigned w.e.f. 1 December 2005
All meetings were held at 22nd Floor Menara Promet, Kuala Lumpur. 12
Corporate 
Governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The terms of reference of the Committee, is in accordance with the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa Securities) 
Listing Requirements. The terms of reference, which outline the Committee's functions and duties, are furnished 
separately in the Annual Report.
The Committee has reviewed the Group's quarterly and annual fi nancial statement as well as any related party transactions 
prior to their approval by the Board. It has further reviewed with the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP., the scope 
of their engagement, their fees as well as the accounting and reporting matters emanating from their examination of 
the annual fi nancial statements. The Committee has also been appraised on signifi cant risk, control, regulatory and 
fi nancial matters that have come to the attention of the external auditors in the course of their examination. The Audit 
Committee meets annually with the external auditors without the presence of the Executive Chairman.
The Committee is aware of the risk management, control and governance processes relating to critical corporate and 
operational areas. It also closely monitors the recommendations made in order to obtain assurance that all key risk and 
control concerns have been duly addressed.
Attendance at Audit Committee Meetings in 2005
 1-2005 2-2005 3-2005 4-2005 5-2005
 28/02/05 24/03/05 26/05/05 24/08/05 23/11/05
 10.00am 10.00am 2.30pm 2.30pm 10.00am
Abdul Khudus bin Mohd. Naaim          
Dato' Hashim bin Md Salleh*           
Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed           
Syed Yassin bin Syed Abdul Kadir          
* resigned w.e.f. 1 December 2005
All meetings were held at 22nd Floor Menara Promet, Kuala Lumpur.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Committee was established on 20 February 2003 and is headed by Dato' Haji Muda bin Mohamed. A policy 
framework will be implemented to assess all elements of the remuneration and other terms of employment for the 
Executive Chairman. The Executive Chairman abstains from the deliberations and voting on decisions in respect of his 
remuneration at the Board level.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors will be a matter to be decided by the Board and approved by the 
shareholders. A full statement on Directors' remuneration is included in pages 19 to 21. 13
Corporate 
Governance
NOMINATING COMMITTEE
The Committee was established on 20 February 2003 and is headed by Dato' Adnan bin Maaruf. It will be responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board on all new Board and Board Committee appointments. The Committee will 
review the required mix of skills and experience of the Directors of the Board, in determining the appropriate Board 
balance and size of non-executive participation.
STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group's system of internal controls covering not only fi nancial 
controls but also operational and compliance controls, as well as risk management.  The internal control system 
involves each subsidiary business and is designed to meet the needs of each subsidiary, to ensure that the risks faced 
by the business in pursuit of its objectives are identifi ed and managed at known acceptable levels. The Group will be 
continuously reviewing the adequacy and integrity of its system of internal control. A full statement on internal control 
is included in pages 17 to 18.
The Board also acknowledges the internal audit function as an integral part of an effective system of corporate governance. 
In this regard, the Board has taken steps to establish a proper internal audit division to undertake the internal audit 
functions within the Group.
SHAREHOLDERS COMMUNICATIONS AND INVESTOR RELATIONS POLICY
The Group believes in clear communications with its shareholders. The Annual Report and the quarterly announcements 
are the primary models of communication to report on the Group's business activities and fi nancial performance to 
all shareholders. Shareholders also have the opportunity to put questions at the Annual General Meeting where the 
Directors are available to discuss aspects of the Group's business activities and performance.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board has seen and approved the Annual Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 and 
collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information given and confi rm that after 
making reasonable enquiries to the best of their knowledge and belief, there are no other facts, the omission of which  14
Corporate 
Governance
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
Share Buy-backs:
During the fi nancial year, there were no share buy-backs by the Company.
Options, Warrants or Convertible Securities:
There was no exercise of options, warrants or convertible securities during the fi nancial year.
American Depository Receipt (ADR ) or Global Depository Receipt (GDR ) Programme:
The Company did not sponsor any ADR or GDR programme during the fi nancial year.
Imposition of Sanctions and/or Penalties:
There were no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed on the Company and its subsidiaries, Directors or management 
by any regulatory bodies during the fi nancial year.
Non-Audit Fees:
Non-audit fees payable to the Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young LLP for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2005 
amounted to RM28,000.
Profi t Estimate, Forecast, Projection, and Variation in Results:
The Company did not make any release on the profi t estimate, forecast and projection for the fi nancial year.
There was a variation of 10% or more between the audited results for the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2005 and 
the unaudited results previously released by the Company, whereby the loss after tax is now stated at RM23.136 million 
as compared to RM26.404 million reported earlier, all of which were due to writeback of depreciation on reclassifi cation 
of assets to investment property and impairment of investment in associate. 
Profi t Guarantee:
The Company did not give any profi t guarantee during the fi nancial year.
Material Contracts:
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors and major 
shareholders' interests.
Revaluation Policy on Landed Properties:
The Group revalues its landed properties whenever the market value of the revalued assets has changed materially from 
their carrying value as disclosed in Note 1.
Recurrent Related Party Transactions:
There were no transactions with related parties undertaken by the Group during the period under review other than 
those announced on 28 April 2006 to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
This statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 28 April 2006.
DATO' ADNAN BIN MAARUF
Executive Chairman