   
IndigoVision Group plc 
 Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 2009 
  
 
 
 3 
 
Chairman's statement 
 
The year to 31 July 2009 turned out to be a remarkably successful one for IndigoVision, notwithstanding 
the turbulence in financial markets in the first half, and the impact on the economies in which we operate 
in the second half.  The rate of growth fluctuated throughout the year but in the end the group has 
achieved record sales, profit and earnings.  Good progress was also made in developing and bedding in 
the sales, service, and distribution infrastructure globally.  The group ended the year with strong cash 
balances and no debt, and the board is recommending a dividend to shareholders for the first time. 
 
 
Results 
In the year to 31 July 2009, revenue growth was achieved in each of the three regions in which we 
operate, and overall sales grew 43% to a record  26.4m.  Sales doubled in the Americas to  11.2m, grew 
by 50% in Asia Pacific to  3.9m, and increased 10% in Europe, Middle East and Africa to  11.3m.  All of 
these rates of growth are creditable given the economic backdrop. 
  
Gross margins were lower than last year, reflecting a change in sales mix and greater volumes, but the 
contribution from gross margin grew 30% to a record  16.9m. Operating costs were 24% higher at 
 13.6m; operating profits reached a record  3.26m, 59% higher than the previous year; and adjusted 
earnings per share reached a record 34.1p, up 59% on the year to 31 July 2008. 
 
The Group started the year with net cash balances of  1.4m.  By the year end these balances had 
increased to  3.5m, notwithstanding an increase in working capital of  1.6m to finance the greater level 
of sales.   
 
 
Dividend 
The directors believe there is now sufficient balance sheet strength to commence the payment of 
dividends to shareholders, who have patiently supported IndigoVision as its business has been 
developed. 
 
The directors are therefore recommending a dividend of 5.0p per share, payment of which will be subject 
to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.  If approved, the dividend will be paid on 
27 November 2009 to shareholders on the register on 6 November 2009.   
 
 
IndigoVision's business 
IndigoVision innovates and manufactures Security Management Systems. We integrate popular 3
rd
 party 
systems such as access control, perimeter detection and vehicle license plate recognition, giving users 
freedom to choose the best technology for their needs yet control it from one  front end'. For video 
management IndigoVision provides an end-to-end solution - both hardware and software - giving users 
the maximum performance and confidence which is possible from having a single point of supply. We are 
also active participants in the ONVIF and PSIA open standards, meaning our users will in future have the 
same freedom to choose whichever camera manufacturer best suits their needs. 
 
 
Growth 
The security market is undergoing a fundamental technology shift from analogue to IP. More than 90% of 
this transition to IP has yet to occur, representing a significant opportunity for IndigoVision. In recent 
years market growth has been 10-20% per annum (source: IMS Research). We estimate IndigoVision 
has grown sales at an average of roughly twice the rate of growth in the available market in the last five 
years, steadily increasing our market share. IndigoVision's strategy is to continue to grow organically, 
funded by our strong margins and net cash generation, with the goal of continuing to outstrip the rate of 
growth in the IP market.  
 
 
 
    
IndigoVision Group plc 
 Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 2009 
  
 
 
 4 
 
Technology 
IndigoVision has a reputation for providing IP systems that scale smoothly from just a few to thousands of 
cameras. A recent industry survey identified reliability as the single most important factor affecting a 
user's confidence to move from analogue to IP. The fact that IndigoVision is end-to-end - taking the 
software-hardware integration headaches away from our partners - is an inherent source of confidence 
for our users. Our technology also employs a unique distributed architecture with no single point of 
failure, hugely important for mission critical systems which cannot afford to  go down' just because a 
central server is temporarily unavailable over the network. Video playback is also a hot favourite with our 
users with our facility to assess 24 hours of video in just 3 seconds. This, coupled with our suite of video 
analytics, can enable a ten-fold reduction in the time and cost expended in incident investigation. 
 
 
Partners 
In providing an end-to-end solution we give our partners a single point of accountability so they can have 
confidence that their project will roll-out smoothly with optimum performance and stability.  We are their 
single point of training, accreditation, design, purchasing and support.  IndigoVision authorises partners 
on completion of technical training and we supply exclusively through these partners - never direct to end 
users or to  box shifters'. This encourages loyalty from our partners and protects our brand.  
 
We think end-to-end means customer satisfaction and profit: if it deploys smoothly then the end user gets 
a great system, our partners make money, and we make money. Yet we also recognise that users need 
choice and that open systems are good for the whole market. We have a strong reputation as a provider 
of world-class end-to-end video solutions integrated with popular 3
rd
 party security systems. This gives 
partners the ease of a single point of supply coupled with freedom of choice for those that prefer to select 
different manufacturers. 
 
 
Global reach and markets 
We have people in 22 countries, serving hundreds of integrators who deploy IndigoVision systems in 
approximately 80 countries. Our global supply chain manufactures in the Far East and uses three 
stocking and service hubs (APAC, EMEA, Americas) to provide local & rapid response to our partners' 
needs. IndigoVision systems are now installed in 31 airports, having recently won Delhi and Shanghai. In 
the US alone we have 7000 cameras in 18 casinos, the majority of which have been won in the last year. 
We continue to build a strong position in Rail, with a number of systems with thousands of cameras in 
Europe and North America. The Government sector continues to be important for us with the 1000 
camera US-Canada border win, which we believe to be the largest project in the world using HD 
cameras.  
 
We have now provided security for four Olympics Games, three G8 Summits and one G20 Summit. We 
continue to expand in the Police sector with a growing number of stations using IndigoVision systems 
across the world. We also continue to build reference sites in Ports, with the Port of Montreal, Suez 
Canal, Spanish Ports and the St Lawrence Seaway. Retail is also growing, with a large North American 
bank part-way through a major roll out within their retail branch network. Petrochem is also growing, with 
the Sakhalin pipeline, Shell Albian and state oil companies in Latin America. Key Education projects 
include Miami University and John Hopkins University in the US.  Safe Cities' projects are starting to 
emerge in scale, with IndigoVision already having completed a system for a major city in the Far East and 
projects in 17 cities in Latin America.  Rail projects include the continuing roll out of a major North 
American project and the Santiago Metro in Chile. Other sectors in which we are making progress include 
Health, Industrial, Mining, Traffic and Luxury Residential. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
IndigoVision Group plc 
 Directors' report and consolidated financial statements 2009 
  
 
 
 5 
 
Current trading and outlook 
The underlying strength of IndigoVision's business model, people and products has served it well in 
recent years.  Although financial markets seem to be recovering, the severe contraction in bank balance 
sheets continues to affect business confidence and investment in all major economies and we expect this 
will continue for some time.  It remains to be seen how much this will affect business performance in the 
short term, but expecting an easy year would be unrealistic.  The strength of IndigoVision's market 
position and technology should enable it to meet this challenge. 
 
The security market is moving from older analogue systems to IP, but 90% of this transition has still to 
take place.  This presents a clear medium and long term opportunity for IndigoVision to develop further.  
In the current year, we will be stepping up the spend on research and product development to prepare 
IndigoVision for the next stage of growth. 
 
Sales and order intake for the first few weeks of the current year show a mixed picture, with some 
markets doing well and others falling short.  We expect a clearer picture to emerge by the end of the first 
quarter, and we will update shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at the beginning of November.   
 
 
 
Hamish Grossart 
Chairman   
29 September 2009 