 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 6
Chairman' s statement
This time last year , I wrote about what I had found since 
joining AMEC some months beforehand. My knowledge 
of the company - its governance procedures, strategy , 
customers, people and markets - has increased 
dramatically since that time, but my fundamental opinion 
has not changed. We have a highly energised and 
extremely able team at AMEC, who demonstrate their 
sheer professionalism and expertise every day . Our 
customers rely on our ability to deliver their projects on 
time, on budget, and without causing harm. We take this 
responsibility seriously and it is this proven ability to deliver 
excellence that will underpin our future growth. 
During 2012 we made progress on each of the priorities 
I identified at the start of the year . In particular I would 
like to highlight the work we have been doing on board 
effectiveness and composition, on AMEC's strategy beyond 
2015, on succession planning and on improving our 
governance framework.
The board
Let me start by commenting on our board. One of our 
key priorities for 2012 was to conduct an independent 
evaluation of board effectiveness, an exercise which had 
last been undertaken in 2008. This took place in the first 
half and, I am delighted to say , concluded that your 
company has in place a strong, highly competent, board 
that performs well. There were some relatively minor 
suggestions for improvements and these are explained 
further on page 46. 
The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and 
effectively lead the company in delivering long-term 
sustainable success for the benefit of all of our shareholders. 
If it is to achieve this, the board needs to contain the right 
mix of individuals, each with the relevant experience, 
skills and determination to take the company forward. 
Importantly , the board should reflect the diversity of 
the organisation. 
We all recognise that increasing diversity is vital for our 
future success. We need greater diversity of thought to 
inform our decisions, whether represented by the gender 
mix, nationality , ethnic background or any other measure. 
Simplistically , AMEC is an engineering company with its 
roots in the UK, Canada and the US and our employee 
base reflects this history . We are looking to widen the pool 
of talent from which we select our most senior leaders. 
I am delighted that AMEC's management team is now 
30 per cent female and that during 2012, a rigorous 
external search resulted in the appointment of Linda 
Adamany as a non-executive director . These are important 
signals to the organisation about our objectives.
Linda joined the board in 1 October 2012 and has already 
made a valuable contribution to our discussions. A qualified 
accountant and US citizen, she has more than 30 years ' 
experience of the global energy sector and significant 
knowledge of the operations of AMEC's major customers. 
On a wider point, the board objectives for 2013 include 
agreeing our policy on diversity and the measurable 
objectives we wish to set to track progress. 
I will discuss AMEC's new organisational structure and 
its impact on our strategy in a moment. One immediate 
impact was that Neil Bruce left the company and the board 
on 5 October 2012. I would like to thank him for his 
contribution to the board and to AMEC over the years. 
In Colin Day and Neil Carson, the AMEC board contains 
two non-executive directors who are highly respected, 
serving chief executives at other companies. I am 
sometimes challenged on whether they have sufficient 
 Y our company has in place 
a strong, highly competent, board 
that performs well. 
John Connolly 
Chairman 
Key highlights
 Independent evaluation of board effectiveness 
concluded positively with only minor improvement 
recommendations
 As a result of the board review process, board 
diversity has improved
 New operational structure better supports future 
growth strategy and facilitates greater board 
interaction with senior management
 Final dividend of 24.8 pence recommended, which 
would make a total of 36.5 pence, 20 per cent 
above 2011. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 7 
Strategy Performance Governance Financials Overview
time to allocate to AMEC, given the commitments of their 
executive roles. I firmly believe the board gains enormous 
benefit from the up-to-date and highly relevant experience 
they bring to discussions and each has demonstrated that 
they dedicate the amount of time needed to meet what 
is expected of them in their roles as directors of AMEC. 
T ogether with our other non-executive directors I believe 
we have in place the appropriate mix of skills and 
experiences which make this an effective board.
Board priorities
I believe there are three key elements to the role the board 
should take in supporting successful, sustainable growth.
The first is to debate and agree the strategy the company 
is to follow - and then monitor performance against the 
strategic goals. AMEC is now halfway through its Vision 
2015 growth strategy and is delivering ahead of schedule. 
Hence board discussions in the latter part of 2012 turned 
to how we achieve success beyond 2015. We agreed that 
strategic fundamentals remain broadly unchanged but 
felt that a new structure could better maximise future 
growth opportunities. The company's operations are now 
managed by three presidents, one in each geography , each 
reporting to the Chief Executive and responsible for our 
business in their region with a specific focus on our four 
markets - oil & gas, mining, clean energy and environment 
& infrastructure. 
The second element is ensuring the company has the 
right people in place to deliver its targets. This means not 
only assessing the management skills currently in place 
but also ensuring that mechanisms exist to develop future 
talent and plan for succession. The board now has more 
regular , and deeper , interaction with the leaders of the 
company' s three geographies. I see this as a positive result 
of the new organisational structure. Remuneration is a 
key part of our people plan and that of directors remains 
very much in the public eye. We have redesigned our 
remuneration report to show more clearly how we link 
short and long-term incentives to hard measures of 
improvement in the company's performance, in line 
with the strategy - see page 56. 
The final element is ensuring there is an appropriate 
level of governance in place, a topic I elaborate on 
later, on page 38. During 2012 we updated our Code of 
Business Conduct training and made it compulsory for 
all employees. We have been working to simplify our global 
mandatory policies and procedures, making them easier 
to understand and so comply with. The revisions will be 
launched in early 2013. But good governance needs to be 
more than just a set of policies and procedures; it should 
inform the decisions our employees take every day . I have 
the pleasure of talking to our employees on a regular basis 
and so see how seriously we take our commitment to 
safety , how involved we are with our communities and how 
hard we work to win repeat business from our customers. 
Others recognise this too: in 2012 we were yet again sector 
leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability index and judged to 
be one of Canada' s top 100 employers. 
Performance and shareholder returns
The company' s performance in 2012 remained good, 
particularly when viewed against a backdrop of economic 
uncertainty . As reported in more detail in the Chief Executive' s 
review and elsewhere, our company achieved revenue 
growth in 2012 of 28 per cent and growth in earnings per 
share
1
 of 14 per cent. We expect continued growth in 2013.
As a result of our confidence in the future, the board 
is recommending a final dividend of 24.8 per share. 
This makes a total of 36.5 pence per share for the year , 
a 20 per cent increase over 2011 and a dividend cover 
of 2.2 times (2011: 2.3 times). If approved, it will be paid 
on 1 July 2013 to those shareholders on the register at 
31 May 2013. It is the board's intention to continue with 
a progressive dividend policy .
Given the strength of the balance sheet, a  400 million share 
buyback programme was instigated in February 2012 and 
has now been completed. 
Looking ahead
On your behalf, I would like to thank Samir Brikho, 
his management team and all of AMEC' s 29,000 people 
for their hard work and valuable contribution in 2012.
We at AMEC understand what we do well, have built solid, 
long-term customer relationships, and are well positioned 
across the energy market. The economic outlook remains 
challenging but we remain firmly focused on delivering our 
Vision 2015 goals.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
14 February 2013
1
  Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
before intangible amortisation and exceptional items