 08 UNiq Uely placed
INMARSAT PLC Annu Al Repo Rt And Accounts 2005
Chairman and Chief Executive's Review
A transformational year
o ur customers use us in business critical, and 
often life-saving tasks globally, on a daily basis. 
t hey have come to rely on us in situations 
where other networks either cannot serve or 
cannot service them well. We take this 
reliance very seriously, and over the last five 
years, have committed to a us$1.5 billion 
investment programme, which allows us to 
introduce a new generation of mobile 
communications services.
t his next generation is enabled by our new 
global constellation of satellites, which we call 
 Inmarsat-4'. o ur new satellites are now in 
place, covering approximately 85% of the 
landmass of the earth. We have already 
launched our first new service on these 
satellites. We call it Broadband Global Area 
n etwork or BGAn .
t his is an important investment in our future. 
c ombined with the recent public listing of  
our shares, it gives Inmarsat the stable 
platform it needs to provide its customers 
with high quality services into the next  
decade and beyond.
We enjoyed a strong finish to a transformational 
year. We are pleased with our solid financial 
performance and significant operational 
achievements in 2005. o ur revenues for 2005 
were us $491.1 million, an increase of us $10.4 
million over 2004. Inmarsat's core business 
accounted for the majority of the overall 
2005
Year in review
June
Inmarsat completes public offering  
of shares and lists on the l ondon  
stock exchange
 
March
First Inmarsat-4 satellite launches  
successfully on an Atlas V rocket  
from c ape c anaveral, Florida
January
Inmarsat terminals used to  
provide vital communications  
in tsunami-devastated areas
 
This is Inmarsat's first Annual Report as a public limited company, 
following our successful listing on the London Stock Exchange in  
June 2005. We have a long and successful history as a global mobile 
satellite communications services provider. Our new public ownership 
structure positions us well to continue delivering highly reliable and 
innovative global mobile satellite services. 
revenue with a portion of the remaining 
revenues contributed by two subsidiary 
companies which were disposed of during the 
year. earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (eBItd A)  
year-on-year showed an improvement of 5% 
from us $301.7 million to us $317.1 million.
As part of the c ompany's stock exchange 
listing, we advised shareholders that we would 
be introducing a policy of paying dividends, 
and I am pleased to advise that your Board of 
d irectors is recommending a final dividend 
payment of 10.95 cents (us $) per ordinary 
share, making a full year dividend for 2005  
of 16.42 cents per ordinary share.
o ur full-year results for 2005, and our 
dividend policy, reflect our confidence in  
the c ompany's future prospects and our 
commitment to deliver attractive overall 
returns for shareholders.
Operations
o nce again, Inmarsat delivered on its 
commitments and produced high quality 
service and reliability in its core services.  
2005 was a transitional year for the business, 
progressing the Inmarsat-4 programme. 
Key operational highlights for 2005 included 
the successful launches of two newly-built  
and tested Inmarsat-4 satellites. t hese  
state-of-the-art satellites form the central 
piece of our Inmarsat-4 programme, which 
also includes the development and launch  
of our new BGAn service. 
o ur staff and vendor partners who dedicated 
years of effort to this programme, deserve 
our congratulations and thanks. 
d uring the year, we continued to experience 
increasing data traffic and revenue growth. 
d ata now represents 68% of our  on-demand' 
revenues. Voice revenue decline has slowed 
a ndrew Sukawaty
Ch AIRmAN AND  
Ch IEF Ex ECUTIv E OFFICER 09 UNiq Uely placed
INMARSAT PLC Annu Al Repo Rt And Accounts 2005
due in part to increasing demand for  social 
and crew calling' voice services by our 
maritime users. We are committed to 
ensuring customer satisfaction for users of our 
established services, and in particular our new 
BGAn service. We believe that, through an 
excellent network of partners, we will be able 
to expand the number and type of customers 
using satellite communications as an extension 
to their regular office environment. We will 
also be there for users in times of crisis or 
natural disaster.
Board changes
d uring 2005, we transitioned from a private 
equity-backed company to a public company.  
I would like to thank our directors and 
shareholders in place prior to our stock exchange 
listing for their stewardship of the c ompany, 
their absolute belief in the Inmarsat-4 
programme and their commitment to  
ensure that funding was in place to realise  
this achievement. 
At the time of our listing, we reconfigured the 
Board to ensure we had a majority of 
independent directors and welcomed three 
new independent, non-executive directors - 
sir Bryan c arsberg, stephen d avidson and 
Admiral James ellis Jnr (Rtd). We are delighted 
that they decided to join the Inmarsat Board 
and also that John Rennocks agreed to take on 
the enlarged role of d eputy c hairman and 
senior Independent d irector. Bjarne  
Aamodt stepped down from the Board as  
a non-executive director in n ovember 2005 
and we thank him for his service to the Board. 
Full details of the experience of our directors 
are given on page 21.
Social responsibility
Inmarsat continues to be the only provider of 
satellite communications services for the 
Global Mobile d istress and safety system 
(GMdss), ensuring that those at sea can rely 
upon our services in times of emergency - 
we are very proud of our maritime heritage 
and that our services do help save lives. 
Another example of our continued 
commitment to our maritime background  
is Inmarsat's support for the education of 
maritime specialists through a funding grant 
to the World Maritime u niversity. 
o ur support of the charity t  l coms sans 
Fronti res has been established for many 
years. d uring 2005 they were often among 
the first to arrive at many of the world's 
disaster zones, setting up Inmarsat equipment 
to provide communications for other agencies 
and to provide a much needed and welcomed 
opportunity for victims to call their relatives. 
t Fs worked extensively, using Inmarsat 
equipment, to help other aid agencies and 
survivors in the tsunami affected areas and 
again provided support following the south 
east Asia earthquakes
o ur services were vital for many days 
following the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. 
t here was significant use of them by the 
d epartment of Homeland security, civilian 
emergency services and the media to assess 
the extent of the damage.
Strategy
o ur focus will be on identifying opportunities 
to grow our revenues, increasing eBItd A and 
managing our costs to achieve efficiency gains 
where possible. 
We currently have a diverse service offering 
for land, sea and air users. As we take the 
c ompany forward to the next phase, we are 
seeking to grow our business in the defence 
sector, in the newly emerging opportunity in 
hybrid satellite terrestrial systems in the us 
and c anada and in the hand held satellite 
voice market. t hese have all been identified as 
exciting growth opportunities for the business. 
u nderpinning these opportunities, we will be 
maintaining our focus on ensuring that the 
core Inmarsat business, significantly our 
maritime business, continues to grow and that 
our new BGAn business builds steadily in 
2006, providing a further platform for growth 
in the years ahead.
An exciting new opportunity emerged this 
year for Inmarsat, as we were successful in 
being part of the selected consortium to 
develop the european Global positioning 
system, Galileo. We have been selected as the 
lead in the operating company in this eu -
supported programme. t his is a good fit for 
us as a european mobile satellite operator.
Looking forward
While we will seek to grow revenues in 2006 
over 2005, we recognise that time will be 
needed for BGAn to gain momentum 
throughout the year. 
Inmarsat's global business would not be what  
it is today without the excellent partnership 
network we have around the world. A close 
relationship exists with our distributors, 
manufacturers, service providers and 
application developers.
We achieved a number of significant 
milestones in 2005. n one of them would have 
been possible without the skills and dedication 
of our employees, and I would like to thank 
them for their expertise, enthusiasm and 
commitment. I would also like to thank our 
shareholders for their support of the business, 
and now that we are a public company, we 
look forward to welcoming new shareholders 
and to developing a strong relationship  
with them.
We are uniquely placed in our markets and 
remain committed to delivering attractive 
returns, plus a sustainable growing dividend,  
to our shareholders, good value to our 
customers and a motivated place to work  
and develop for our staff.
July
successful migration of R-BGAn  
customers to the Inmarsat-4 satellite
	 October
Inmarsat-sponsored aid agency, t  l coms  
sans Fronti res (ts F) helps surviving families  
 of the se Asia earthquakes to make contact  
 with relatives using Inmarsat terminals
	 November
second Inmarsat-4 satellite launches  
  successfully on a Zenit-3sl rocket from  
the sea l aunch platform in the pacific o cean
December	 2005
l aunch of BGAn (Broadband Global  
Area n etwork) service, delivered via  
the Inmarsat-4 satellites
It was a strong finish to a transformational year.  
We are pleased with our solid financial performance  
and significant operational achievements in 2005. 