 2 Inter Link Foods PLC
Annual Report 2006
In the year we witnessed significant growth in turnover
which increased by 33%, and our adjusted (before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) profit
before tax increased by 21%. Profit before exceptional
items and tax grew by 16%, whilst profit before tax fell
by 3%. This growth reflected our focus on multiple
customers and their continued requirement for a
consistently good stream of innovative own label
products matched with high service levels.
 
Turnover has increased by 33% to  130 million.
 
EBITDA pre-exceptional costs has increased by
36% to  13.3 million.
 
EBITA* pre-exceptional costs has increased by
32% to  9.4 million.
 
Profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation
of goodwill has risen by 20.7% to  7.1 million
 
Profit before tax has decreased by 3% to  4.4
million.
 
Profit after tax for the year has increased by 5% to
 3.2 million.
 
Like-for-like sales, excluding acquisitions, have
risen by 10%.
 
Proposed final dividend of 5.0p (2005: 4.3p).
* This is measured before amortisation of goodwill only.
Although the results after exceptional items and the
amortisation of goodwill were below our internal
expectations, they are nevertheless record results for
the 8th consecutive year.
We have been building on our core strategies  
consolidation of manufacturing units, reinforcing our
position as a one stop shop with customers through
efficient low cost production and developing growth
through a combination of organic and acquisition
investment. 
Trading Results for the Year
During the year, sales increased by 32.5% to  130 million.
Profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation rose 20.7% to  7.1 million while the profit
before tax was down 2.7% to  4.4 million. The profit
before tax figure reflects the impact of the exceptional
costs incurred during the year with the commencement of
the Group's consolidation strategy. Adjusted earnings per
share have increased by 8.6% to 44.1p, whilst basic
earnings per share have decreased by 4.1% to 27.9p. The
weighted average number of shares in issue, which has
been used in the calculation of the earnings per share
figures, reflects the impact of existing share options being
exercised. The Group's operating profit (excluding the
impact of goodwill amortisation but after taking account of
exceptional costs) has increased by 5.6% on last year to
 7.5 million on last year reflecting the solid underlying
performance of the Group. The Group has continued in its
stated aim to remain the lowest cost producer in its market
sector with further investment in new plant and machinery
which partly explains the 35.7% increase in EBITDA (pre-
exceptional costs) to  13.3 million.
Consolidation and Investment
The year has also seen management heavily engaged not
only in consolidation and investment in new plant and
machinery, but also in significant initiatives that are
important to the future prosperity of the Group. Although no
acquisitions were made in the period, the Group invested
heavily in plant and machinery in those existing facilities
where we anticipate growth and where such investment is
in line with our site consolidation programme. For example,
the new build 50,000 sq ft bakery in Blackburn opened in
August 2005 and initially housed the highly efficient small
fruit pie line. Since then we announced the closure of a
much older facility in Blackburn (Crossfield Foods) and its
entire production will be transferred into the new bakery
during July 2006. Similarly, during the year we transferred
some production from our bakery in Herne Bay, Kent into
the same new bakery. This focus on operating from fewer,
more efficient, cost-effective sites will bring considerable
savings to the Group during the next few years.
The site consolidation strategy also led to the closure
during the financial year of the Newton House bakery in
Dewsbury, West Yorkshire. Its production transferred into
Yorkshire Cottage Bakery in Bradford. In June 2006, we
also announced that Hoppers Farmhouse Bakery which
was acquired in January 2004, will close during the first
quarter of 2007. Its production will transfer to the modern
Blackburn bakery referred to above. The consolidation of
sites will enable the Group to become more efficient
leading to a more manageable process where we are
better able to maximise returns on investment.
Poland-based Cukiernia Mistrza Jana, which was acquired
in December 2004, has benefited from major capital
investment. This in turn has led to gaining new business for
UK retail multiples. During the year this new business
amounted to over  6.3 million and involved 14 new
products. We are delighted by the amount of still further
new business interest this acquisition continues to generate.
The work on installing new IT systems into all areas of
the business, including manufacturing, finance and
sales disciplines, has involved the entire Group and will
deliver significantly improved management information.
The initiative, which will be live in all sites, is being
progressively enhanced for completion in August 2006.
These systems will bring real benefits and has been
welcomed by everyone within the business.
Central Distribution
The strategic move to Central Distribution is a logical
extension of all our other activities. This work has been in
planning and preparation for some 18 months and is
executive
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT The Soreen business, which was acquired in 2003,
has proven a great success as demand for its malt loaf
products continues to grow. A new bakery will open
during 2006, doubling production capacity.
3 Inter Link Foods PLC
Annual Report 2006
vital to the Group and to our customers. The current
distribution arrangements are complex, expensive and
inefficient. The Group will therefore move away from a
series of informal arrangements with up to 12 different
distribution and haulage contractors. In its place we have
appointed Christian Salvesen as the sole provider of
storage and logistics services to the Group. A new
dedicated distribution centre at Warrington, Cheshire, will
be central to the new arrangements which will transform
our operations. It brings a whole host of benefits such as
the centralisation of sales invoicing and credit control. It
will go live in August 2006.
Soreen Growth and Expansion
The Soreen business, which was acquired in 2003, has
proven a great success as demand for its malt loaf
products has outstripped production capacity. This led
to the decision to operate from a new 30,000 sq ft
facility in close proximity to the existing site in Trafford
Park, Manchester, to complement the existing facility.
This effectively doubles our capacity to produce malt loaf
and snack products for the UK market. The new bakery
will begin production shortly.
The Group has also decided to enter the market for
Puddings. We intend to produce Christmas puddings
and all year round puddings for the Mrs Peeks brand,
and for retailer brands, from a new 30,000 sq ft site,
opening in spring 2007, that is to be built adjoining the
new Soreen Bakery.
The UK Cake Market
The total cake market continued to grow by 6.0% in
the year, with growth in all of the major sectors. In the
category that most interests us, which is ambient cake,
the market grew by 6.1%. We remain the number two
supplier in the UK cake market and in partnership with
our leading customers we continue to develop and
provide quality, value for money private label products.
These are produced alongside our branded Soreen
products and licensed products.
The year saw the development and launch of over 254
new products into the marketplace. The pace of
development and the ever increasing demand for more
new products clearly contributed to the increase in
turnover of 33%. Similarly, our growing seasonal
business is very important to us as we sold some 120
million mince pies at Christmas 2005. It is anticipated
that that figure will rise to around 140 million in 2006.
Our People
We continue to invest in recruiting new management with a
variety of skills into the Group, as we prepare the ground
for the growth ahead. New product development and
technical resource, for example, have been stepped up
and are now in a stronger position than ever to service the
Group and our customer needs.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank all our
employees for their contribution to these results. Their hard
work, dedication and commitment are much appreciated.
We depend on them to take care of our customers and
they do this in a very positive manner as they have done
for many years.
Outlook
The UK cake market continues to grow at over 6% with
our retail customers now growing and leading the
market with their own label brands. The healthy eating
category recorded the highest growth in the year albeit
from a very low base and we continue to play a
responsible part in product improvement.
In the year ahead we are encouraged by the many new,
strong business opportunities which are presented to us
as we look to continue our sales growth. We continue to
become an even more important supplier to our
customers with whom our relationships have been
strengthened. In this respect the first two months' sales
were ahead of budget expectations. As a supplier to all
UK retailers, we recognise that to stay ahead we must
constantly strive to improve efficiency and establish new
ways to maintain a lower cost base. Our key strategic
initiatives are therefore designed to improve particular
aspects of our business. Site consolidation, introducing
new IT systems and moving to a dedicated central
distribution arrangement will bring strong financial
and non-financial benefits to the Group.
Having invested heavily in recent years,
going forward we now see a much more
modest level of capital investment in the
future as we set out to reduce our
gearing and borrowings and fully utilise
the solid asset base of the Group.
We are confident that we are
continuing to build a platform of
performance improvements across
the Group and we expect the
significant initiatives that are in place
to bring considerable future
benefits. We look forward to the
year ahead with continuing
confidence.
Alwin Thompson
Executive Chairman
11 July 2006 