 Results
For the year ended 28 February 2005, Group turnover
reduced by 15.0% to  82.3m. Pre-tax profit before
goodwill and exceptional items was  1.3m (2004 -  1.8m).
After tax, minority interest and exceptional items the loss
attributable to shareholders was  0.6m (2004 -  0.9m
profit). Basic loss per share was 2.4p (2004 - 3.9p profit).
The current year's results have been adversely impacted
by a legal dispute with a major Chinese supplier, leading to
a loss of business. This has been offset by the effect of
more appropriate stock valuation accounting at G & A
Limited (G & A) and the release of certain specific
provisions which are no longer required.
The exceptional items reported relate to the on-going
reorganisation of the Group's manufacturing operations
( 1.3m) and the legal costs in relation to the dispute with a
major Chinese supplier which has now been amicably
settled ( 0.3m).
Dividends
A continued reduction in borrowings and the imminent
completion of the restructuring programme leads the
directors to recommend a final dividend of 1.0p per share
making a total for the year of 2.0p (2004 - total dividend
2.0p). The dividend will be paid on 21 July to all
shareholders on the register at the close of business on
Friday 24 June 2005.
Balance Sheet
In a difficult period of declining sales, strict stock control
has been maintained and Group stock levels have reduced
marginally to  27.0m from  27.5m. Debtor balances were
 1.8m lower at  16.0m. Net debt at the year-end was
 18.7m, a reduction on the 2004 year-end of  1.6m. In the
light of the capital expenditure in the year of  1.6m, this
represents further evidence of the commitment to debt
reduction and cash generation.
Business Review
The major restructuring of the Group's activities is now
virtually complete. Our gold jewellery manufacturing
operations in Birmingham will close finally in June 2005
and the Group will begin to realise the cost savings from
operating its manufacturing primarily in a Far East labour
cost environment.
As well as the imminent opening of the fully integrated gold
plant, a brand new gem factory has been constructed on
an adjacent plot to address the growing demand for the
products produced by Essex International pcl (Essex). This
plant was successfully opened in April 2005. More details
are provided in the manufacturing review below.
Having state-of-the-art manufacturing plants in the Far
East for both gem and gold has enabled the Abbeycrest
Group to position itself uniquely in the UK market. The
Group now offers a full menu of services to UK retailers
from full stock-holding, fulfilment and category
management through to direct bulk supply of product to
the customer at the factory gate. The UK market is
changing markedly with many large customers looking to
source directly at least some element of their jewellery
requirements from outside the UK; we are now in a
position to react positively to any customer requirements of
this nature.
Chairman's Report
2
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2005
New gem factory under construction Completed factory for both gold and gem production 3
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2005
Our commitment to debt reduction remains and I am
pleased that the Group's borrowings continue to reduce
despite a year of significant capital expenditure.
The UK trading environment has been difficult for
Abbeycrest with sales during the key Christmas period
being generally depressed coupled with a significant
reduction in sales levels to one of our major customers.
Taking this into account, the level of profit before
exceptionals compared with last year demonstrates a
better level of cost control than hitherto. Brown & Newirth
Limited continues to be profitable in line with last year.
Manufacturing
As noted above, the Group will shortly be able to
manufacture parts and assemble gold jewellery in
Abbeycrest Thailand Limited's (ATL) dedicated facility in
Northern Thailand. This will include, for the first time, in-
house production of the raw material, gold strip. This latter
process not only affords further cost savings but also
opens up the ability to efficiently manufacture new product
categories, such as gold tubing which has great market
potential.
The new state-of-the-art gem plant is next door to the gold
factory. This has relieved capacity pressures which
became evident last year as demand for Essex gem
products grew. The opportunity has been taken to merge
ATL and Essex with the combined entity going forward
under the ATL banner with effect from April 2005. Again,
this will simplify operations and enable cost savings to be
achieved in areas such as administration and information
technology.
The logic of the expansion of Abbeycrest's productive
capacity in Thailand is two-fold. Firstly, almost without
exception, major UK customers have begun to expect
direct import of key products from low labour cost
manufacturing areas in an effort to reduce product prices.
Without our own manufacturing capacity, this business
may well have been lost. Now Abbeycrest can offer a
direct import service, uniquely backed up by local sales
liaison in the UK. The second advantage is that Dynamic
Creations Limited (DCL), our Hong Kong based business,
can also begin to utilise the additional capacity in Thailand.
This alleviates a recent problem for DCL, which has been
the availability of reliable sub-contracted manufacturing
from the Chinese mainland.
Commercial
The vulnerability of the Group due to the reliance of G & A
on a small number of large customers has been
demonstrated during the last financial year by the impact
of a 40% reduction in order intake from a major customer.
As reported in November 2004, this was precipitated by a
legal dispute with a major Chinese supplier, which
effectively prevented this supplier's products being offered
for sale. Since Christmas, this dispute has been amicably
settled and the products in question are once again being
considered by Abbeycrest's customers.
A major drive has been launched this year to attract new
major retail customers for the business. This has proved
most promising and, amongst other opportunities, G & A
will be undertaking a trial of fine jewellery with a major UK
retailer in the last quarter of this calendar year. If successful,
this could be a major step forward in distribution outlets for
the Group. In addition, the Group has targeted the UK's
Gold strip material entering the annealing furnace G & A stand at the International Spring Fair 4
Abbeycrest Plc Annual Report 2005
specialist jewellery chains as an opportunity to increase
sales. These specialists have historically had the knowledge
and contacts to purchase product directly from
manufacturers and have therefore been reluctant to trade
substantially with G & A. Since Christmas, these retailers
have been approached with a view to buying directly from
our factories in Thailand, backed by local sales support in
the UK. The reaction has been positive and this business
segment should prove a significant growth area.
Outside of the UK, Essex (now merged with ATL) has had a
promising year with turnover growing by 38% and has
recorded a profit before exceptional items for the first time
in several years. With the growth of business in North
America, the increasing demand in the UK for direct import
of product and the facilities and capacity offered by the
brand-new factory, the prospects for gem sales are
excellent.
ATL has consolidated the excellent performance of the first
year of operations with another set of solid financial figures.
Turnover and profit were steady at  7.2m and  0.5m
respectively. As noted, the project to move parts stamping
from the UK and commence raw material manufacture in
Thailand is on target for imminent completion.
DCL has had difficulty in finding reliable manufacturing
capacity on the Chinese mainland. Despite this, turnover
increased by 20% to  11.4m though profits declined from
 1.1m to  0.9m due to increased overheads related to the
number of sub-contract manufacturers, which it has been
necessary to manage throughout the year. The availability
of the new factory in Thailand will help alleviate this issue.
Current Trading and Prospects
The Group's major market remains the UK and the
difficulties experienced by many retailers since Christmas
have been well documented. The Abbeycrest Group is
being directly affected by these difficulties and order intake
for the first two months of the current financial year is lower
than last year. However, the Abbeycrest Group will
imminently be at the end of a two-year restructuring
exercise. The Group now stands able to begin to reap the
benefits of volume manufacturing being performed in a low
labour cost environment. In addition, two sets of
infrastructure in Thailand will be replaced by one as Essex
and ATL are merged.
Overall, despite a more difficult retail environment in the
UK, the Directors are confident of the outlook and
prospects for the Group for the year ending 28 February
2006 particularly because of the reduced cost base arising
from the relocation of the Group's volume manufacturing to
Thailand.
Michael Lever
Chairman
17 June 2005
Chairman's Report
continued
G & A product manufactured by Essex Silver product