 Intercytex Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
 
...WE ARE CLOSE TO A SERIES OF VALUE 
ENHANCING EVENTS AS OUR FIRST PRODUCT 
SALES ARE ACHIEVED AND CLINICAL TRIAL DATA 
ARE REPORTED ON ALL FOUR OF OUR PRODUCTS. 
I am very pleased to present Intercytex' 
2006 Annual Report and Accounts. This 
has been a year in which we have laid 
the foundations for the launch of our first 
product and our lead clinical candidate 
has advanced through its Phase III trial. 
Considerable efforts have been made in 
preparing the Company's other products 
for their next stages of development. Thus 
we are close to a series of value enhancing 
events in 2007 as our first product sales are 
achieved and clinical trial data are reported 
on all four of our products.
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
In March we received confirmation from 
the MHRA that ICX-RHY is outside the 
scope of the current legislation covering 
the marketing of medicines and devices 
in the UK; since it therefore does not need 
a marketing authorisation we are able to 
launch the product in the UK. We are also 
reviewing the opportunities in certain other 
European markets.
Since receiving the letter from the 
MHRA we have been evaluating the 
market opportunity and preparing for 
launch. Until recently the only cell therapy 
approach to facial rejuvenation on the 
UK market was the autologous product, 
Isolagen. This was withdrawn in November 
2006 because, despite good sales, being 
an autologous product with high 
manufacturing costs it was reported to 
be unprofitable. Our market research has 
shown that there remains a strong appetite 
amongst aesthetic doctors for the natural 
outcomes which a cell therapy approach 
to facial rejuvenation could achieve. We 
are therefore confident that ICX-RHY will be 
well received and that, as an allogeneic 
product with a much simpler manufacturing 
process, it will achieve satisfactory margins.
The branding process was completed 
earlier this year and the product has been 
named Vavelta. We intend to launch the 
product in the second half of this year, 
when we have obtained early data from 
our Phase II trials, through our own sales 
and marketing organisation. Initially we 
will target a niche of high-end aesthetic 
doctors who are particularly interested in 
cell therapy. In 2008, with an increasing 
clinical data package, we will escalate 
promotional efforts and broaden the 
customer base. 
We are investigating whether there are 
opportunities to initiate the small scale 
commercialisation of ICX-TRC in 2008. 
This will depend on the outcome of the 
ongoing Phase II trial and further 
regulatory review. 
06 Intercytex Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
In conjunction with the branding of ICX-RHY 
we will shortly finalise a brand for ICX-PRO. 
We have developed an elegant transport/
delivery system for the product which will 
enhance its ease of use characteristics. 
In consultation with a panel of clinicians 
we have identified removal of basal 
cell carcinomas as an interesting early 
application of ICX-SKN. Assuming a 
successful Phase I trial we will examine 
the use of ICX-SKN in patients undergoing 
this procedure in the first Phase II trial 
of the product.
CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT
ICX-PRO
Our lead clinical product, ICX-PRO for 
the treatment of chronic ulcers, is currently 
being used in two clinical trials. The first is 
a multi-centre Phase III trial in the US, UK 
and Canada evaluating efficacy in venous 
leg ulcers. Patient recruitment accelerated 
during the year and we anticipate reaching 
the initial recruitment target of 216 patients 
later this month. The trial is designed to 
demonstrate improved wound healing 
compared with the standard of care 
- four layer compression bandaging. 
The DSMB has conducted a sample size 
re-estimation based on a review of the data 
from the first 108 patients randomised to 
the trial. The DSMB has stated its belief 
that the response rate from the standard 
of care control arm assumed in the original 
trial design was too low. We are pleased to 
report that the DSMB has recommended 
continuation of the trial with an increase 
in patient numbers in order to ensure a 
statistically significant result. The Company 
is currently discussing with the FDA the 
exact number of additional patients to be 
recruited, but based on an initial discussion 
our expectation is that this will be around 
135. Recruitment is now expected to be 
complete in Q4/2007 and data from the 
trial announced in mid-2008.
Recruitment is also ongoing for a Phase II 
trial in the UK in diabetic foot ulcers to 
assess proof of concept in this indication.
ICX-TRC
We started a Phase II trial of ICX-TRC, our 
cell therapy product for hair regeneration 
in male pattern baldness, in September. 
The process involves taking a biopsy from 
the subject, separating out the relevant 
cells, and growing them in our facility 
using our proprietary process. All biopsies 
from the first cohort of nine patients have 
been taken and most of these patients 
have been treated. Further cohorts will 
follow investigating variations in delivery 
technique. We expect to report preliminary 
data from this trial around the middle 
of the year.
ICX-RHY (VAVELTA)
During the period we completed a Phase I 
clinical trial of ICX-RHY , our innovative 
product for facial rejuvenation. The 
study, conducted in collaboration with 
Professor Nick Lowe MD FRCP at the 
Cranley Clinic, London, consisted of a 
placebo-controlled safety and tolerability 
study in ten healthy volunteers. Each subject 
received a course of three injections given 
into the skin of the upper arm. ICX-RHY was 
shown to be very well tolerated; no serious 
adverse events were reported and all adverse 
events were transient and resolved 
without treatment.
On the basis of these very encouraging 
data we have designed two Phase II studies. 
The first, to examine the effect of the product 
on naso-labial folds, commenced in March 
again with Professor Lowe. A second study 
should commence in the second quarter 
in Birmingham with Dr David Eccleston 
to assess the impact of ICX-RHY on facial 
imperfections caused by acne. 
Data will become available from these trials 
from the middle of 2007 onwards that will 
support both the launch of the product in 
07 08 Intercytex Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
the UK and the continuation of the clinical 
development programme.
ICX-SKN
ICX-SKN is our fourth product candidate 
which has been designed as a living skin 
replacement for use as an off the shelf 
skin graft. A Phase I trial in volunteers 
to assess safety and persistence of the 
product commenced in February; the 
patient treatment phase is complete and 
early observations are encouraging.
REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS
ADVANCED THERAPIES MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS (ATMP) REGULATION 
(2005/0227/COD)
Although currently ICX-RHY is not 
regulated in the UK as either a device or 
a medicine we believe that in time it will 
become regulated by pending European 
legislation covering ATMPs. This legislation 
is currently in draft form and we do not 
anticipate that it will become law in the UK 
until sometime in 2008. The legislation will 
contain  grandfather' provisions allowing 
for the continued sale of products which 
were available prior to the legislation 
coming into force.
The new legislation will also probably 
regulate ICX-TRC and ICX-SKN as ATMPs 
which are both currently regulated as 
medicines in the UK. We do not expect 
the new regulation to have any significant 
effect on the development path of either 
of these products.
REGULATORY AUTHORITY FOR TISSUE 
AND EMBRYOS (RATE)
Being based upon human cells our product 
candidates are also regulated by the 
Human Tissue Authority (HTA). The 
government has announced plans to 
merge HTA with the Human Fertilisation 
and Embryology Authority (HFEA) to form 
the new Regulatory Authority for Tissue 
and Embryos. RATE will combine the 
statutory functions that are currently the 
responsibility of HTA and HFEA. We do not 
anticipate that this change will affect the 
development of our product candidates.
MANAGEMENT
One key appointment was made to 
our senior management team when 
Jan Benschop joined us as VP Commercial 
Development in July. Jan has over 25 years' 
experience in the sales and marketing of 
pharmaceutical, healthcare and biological 
products. In particular he brings highly 
relevant experience in aesthetic medicine 
having been a Director of Allergan 
responsible for the European marketing 
of BOTOX
 
.
FACILITIES
Our R&D and production operations are 
conducted from our premises in Manchester. 
During the year we leased an additional 
2,228 square foot in Manchester immediately 
adjoining our Good Manufacturing Practice 
(GMP) suite to provide additional QC 
laboratories and GMP raw material storage. 
We also took out an option over a further 
12,454 square feet on the ground floor of 
our building to provide the in-market 
production capacity we will need following 
the launches of ICX-RHY and ICX-PRO.
Following the successful GMP inspection 
of our facility in Manchester last year the 
MHRA conducted a Good Clinical Practice 
(GCP) inspection which I am pleased to say 
we passed. 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT CONTINUED 09 Intercytex Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
FUNDRAISING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
 13.7m of net proceeds were received 
in February 2006 from the IPO in which 
13.9m new ordinary shares were issued 
at a price per share of 108p.
The operating cash outflow for the 
year was  9.2m (2005:  6.3m). The net 
cash inflow after financing was  5.3m 
(2005:  3.9m) resulting in year end 
cash and liquid resources of  11.0m 
(2005:  5.7m).
Turnover in the year relates to receipt of 
the second milestone from Bosley under 
the ICX-TRC option agreement and other 
operating income comprises funding under 
the DTI grant for ICX-TRC. The pre-tax loss 
for the year was  9.2m (2005:  7.2m). 
The increase reflects higher R&D costs due 
to the increase in clinical trial programme 
activity, in particular the costs of the 
multi-centre ICX-PRO Phase III trial, and 
the additional staff hired to support this 
activity. The reduction in general and 
administrative costs reflects lower fundraising 
costs. The charge for share-based payments 
resulting from implementation of FRS 20 
(IFRS 2) was  252k.
PROSPECTS
In recent months a number of well qualified 
observers have commented that the field of 
regenerative medicine is beginning to fulfil 
its early promise. With its late stage 
pipeline and strong commercial prospects 
Intercytex is a significant force in this 
sector. In 2007 continued clinical progress 
and the launch of ICX-RHY will emphasise 
the attractiveness of our business and 
our prospects. 
IAN KENT
CHAIRMAN
22 MARCH 2007