 INVU PLC 
 
Chairman's Report 
 
2 
 
I am pleased to report the achievement of a profit for the year of  0.2 million and operating cash 
generation  0.7m. This resulted in earnings per share of 0.04 pence on both a basic and fully diluted 
basis. 
This is the second consecutive year that we have reported a profit and the fourth consecutive year of 
operating cash generation. 
Shareholders approved cancelation of trading of the company's shares on AIM (the Delisting ) effective 
2 December 2013. This change in the status of the Company, along with the requirement to introduce a 
Strategic Report, has impacted the structure and content of this annual report. Accordingly the Strategic 
Report includes content that used to be in the CEO and Finance reviews and some of the content from 
the directors report and I address corporate governance and remuneration in this statement rather than in 
separate reports. 
Following the Delisting we have reduced the size of the board from 5 to 3 directors. The Executive role of 
Chief Executive Officer has been made redundant and the board position eliminated. Colin Gallick 
resigned his directorship effective 31 January 2014 and left the office of Chief Executive Officer in early 
February. We thank Colin for guiding the company from a position of heavy losses and cash consumption 
in 2009 to a profitable and cash generative business in 2014. We have also reduced the number of non 
executive directors on the board by one, Bernard Fisher resigned his position as a non executive director 
in early February 2014. We thank Bernard for the wise council he has offered to Invu over a number of 
years. I am now the non executive Chairman and independent non executive director and Daniel 
Goldman has taken on the role of non executive director. Ian Smith remains on the board as the 
representative of executive management. 
The Company is a holding Company and the group trade is carried out in the subsidiaries. The executive 
management team are directors of the trading subsidiaries. The executive team comprises Tim Newman 
the Sales Director, Stuart Evans the CTO and Ian Smith the Finance Director. The executive team is led 
by Ian Smith in the role of General Manager. 
In December 2013 the Company established a share trading facility utilising the services of BritDaq 
Limited who also became the Company's registrar effective 1 February 2014. Shareholders can obtain on 
line information about their shareholding by registering at www.Britdaq.com and can also sign up to the 
trading facility by visiting that website. The Company will post information on the BritDaq website and on 
the company's own website. Shareholders should contact BritDaq if they have any questions about their 
shareholding. 
Communication with private shareholders is principally through the Annual General Meeting, where 
participation is encouraged and where the Board is available to answer questions. Shareholders are also 
encouraged to contact the Company directly and the directors undertake to reply to all such contacts 
either by telephone or e-mail with information that is within the public domain. To this end, the Group's 
website has a specific investor relations area with access to annual reports and other information. The 
website also affords the opportunity for investors and potential investors to contact the Group with any 
queries they may have. The Group will always use its best endeavours to respond to these requests. 
The directors have agreed to ensure that the annual report and the financial statements are made 
available on a website.  Financial statements are published on the company's website in accordance with 
legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, 
which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.  The maintenance and integrity of the company's 
website is the responsibility of the directors.  The directors' responsibility also extends to the ongoing 
integrity of the financial statements contained therein. 
Governance 
The Board are responsible to shareholders for the overall strategy of the Group as well as considering a 
formal schedule of matters reserved to it. The board delegates certain authorities to the executive 
management team based on agreed budgets and taking account of the schedule of matters reserved to  INVU PLC 
 
Chairman's Report 
 
3 
 
it. The Board will in future meet quarterly and the chairman will meet with the executive team monthly to 
review trading performance, setting and monitoring strategy and examining major capital expenditure and 
acquisition opportunities.  The Board will continue to be supplied in a timely manner with information in a 
form suitable to enable it to discharge its duties.  Professional advice from independent sources is 
available if required. All directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General 
Meeting following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. 
The directors consider that the board supported by the executive team has an appropriate mix of skills 
and experience for a business of the size of Invu. The board used to delegate certain powers to 
committees. The duties of these committees, audit, remuneration and nomination have now been 
absorbed by the board with members not participating in matters where they have an individual interest. 
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing business risk.  Strategic 
risks are regularly reviewed by the Board. Risks relating to the key activities of the Group are assessed 
continuously and, where necessary, mitigation strategies implemented. The principal risks and 
uncertainties are identified in the Strategic Report. 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness.  These systems of internal control can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
that no material loss or misstatement has occurred.The Group's internal controls are based on operating 
procedures that encompass a comprehensive system for providing information, both financial and non-
financial, to the Board including: 
  Established organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and delegation of 
authority; 
 
  Clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation limits set at appropriate 
limits; 
 
  Formal accounting policies and procedures applicable to all areas of the Group; 
 
  Annual review of internal controls; 
 
  Budgeting and financial reporting systems involving review and approval of budgets by the Board, 
monthly monitoring of performance against these budgets and full variance analysis; 
 
  Detailed operational procedures, that incorporate key controls, have been developed within the 
Group.  These procedures take account of the implications of changes in law and regulations. 
 
Remuneration 
The policy of the Group is to ensure that staff, including the executive management, are fairly rewarded 
for their individual contributions to the Group's overall performance and is designed to attract, motivate 
and retain executive directors and key staff of the right calibre.  The board is responsible for 
recommendations on all elements of executive managements remuneration including,basic salary, 
annual bonus, share options, benefits and any other incentive awards. In setting executive salaries, the 
board considers a number of factors, such as market conditions, salaries in comparable companies in 
similar industries and affordability, also taking into account performance and market comparisons. 
The Board determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.  The non-executive directors do 
not currently participate in the various benefit schemes operated by the Group apart from share option 
schemes.  All non-executive directors are engaged on letters of appointment, which set out their duties 
and responsibilities. Both the Company and the non-executive directors are required to give one months 
notice of termination.  INVU PLC 
 
Chairman's Report 
 
4 
 
Directors' remuneration 
The remuneration of the directors is as follows: 
    
 
Total 
 
Salaries 
and fees Bonus 
Benefits in 
kind  
Loss of 
office 2014 2013 
  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000  '000 
       
Colin Gallick 135 125 20 163 443 192 
Ian Smith 108 50 14 - 172 136 
Daniel Goldman - - - - - - 
Bernard Fisher - - 5 - 5 4 
Mark Wells 37 - - - 37 37 
 
280 175 39 163 657 369 
Pension contributions were 
    
 2014 2013 
  '000  '000 
   
Colin Gallick 6 6 
Ian Smith 2 2 
 
8 8 
The company pays Cortexplus Limited for the services of Mark Wells. 
The directors remuneration table above has been audited. 
 
During the year the following directors held options:  
 
    
  Granted 
 
Number of options Exercise price    Exercise period 
     
Ordinary shares of  0.001 
Daniel Goldman 6 Dec 07 150,000  28.500p 6 Dec 07 to 6 Dec 17 
Bernard Fisher 6 Dec 07 50,000 28.500p 6 Dec 07 to 6 Dec 17 
Colin Gallick  30 Jan 12 6,000,000 1.75p 30 Jan 13 to 30 Jan 22 
Ian Smith  30 Jan 12 3,000,000 1.75p 30 Jan 13 to 30 Jan 22 
A Ordinary shares of  0.01 
Colin Gallick  30 Jan 12 12,400,000 1.75p 30 Jan 13 to 30 Jan 22 
Ian Smith  30 Jan 12 6,200,000 1.75p 30 Jan 13 to 30 Jan 22 
 
The options held by Colin Gallick were forfeited at the end of the financial year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Wells, Chairman 
10 June 2014