 iPoint-media plc
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
4
Chairman's Statement
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
During the period, the Company focused on implementing projects with mobile operators and creating new
business opportunities for Vitrage, its leading video application platform for fixed line, 3G mobile operators and IP
broadband users, in particular working closely with Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (Ericsson ) and Ericsson's
market units globally. Several projects were delivered to Ericsson's customers during the period.
The Group experienced slippage with new contracts throughout 2009 as a result of a major slowdown in the
telecom industry and the global economy, resulting in customers taking longer to commit to prospective 3G video
calling related projects. Consequently, several significant contracts which were anticipated to be signed during
2009 were delayed. As a result, turnover for the year ended 31 December 2009 was significantly lower than
expected and the loss before taxation for the same period was significantly greater than anticipated.
The Business of iPoint
iPoint's business is developing enabling technology - service creating platform for developing live interactive video
calling services. These platforms enables telecom operators and media companies to develop and deploy a wide
variety of applications and services over broadband internet and mobile networks. The deliverable consists of a
 Telco grade' video application platform that incorporates a powerful service creation environment (SCE). The SCE
is based on a suite of software building blocks and pre-configured application templates that enable quick and easy
deployment of video calling services over IP and 3G networks.
iPoint's business strategy is based on delivery to three verticals: telecoms, media and content aggregation. The
Group's core technology and intellectual property are common to all these verticals.
During 2009, iPoint executed its strategy in the telecoms vertical by working closely with Ericsson and implemented
signed projects and submitted proposals, together with Ericsson's market units, to tenders issued by leading
telecom operators worldwide. Ericsson is one of the world's leading vendors to the telecoms industry and the
directors believe that by working closely with Ericsson, its presence can be leveraged to generate sales of iPoint's
video application platform known as Vitrage, which complements the Video Gateway (VIG) of Ericsson. To date,
the Group has delivered four projects with Ericsson to telecom operators in Europe and Asia in which the Vitrage
platform is used, all of which were delivered in 2009. In addition, iPoint, together with Ericsson, built a pipeline of
potential tenders for projects with telecom operators in Latin America Central and southeast Asia. The Ericsson
channel comprises approximately 20 distinct underlying projects (in various phases of quotation/implementation)
with revenues to the Group from each project in the range of $200,000 to $2,000,000.
During the last quarter of 2009 the Group established a representative office in China in order to expand its market
to Chinese customers from the telecom and media sectors. In addition, the Group signed a distribution agreement
with a leading Chinese distributor which is active in the banking and communications sectors.
The directors expect some of these tenders to be awarded in 2010 although some will be delayed until 2011
because of the impact of the global recession.
iPoint has been in discussions with IBM and the media vertical has been expanded to provide user generated
content and applications for the printing industry, in addition to TV and mobile services already provided. iPoint-
media's offering will become a standard part of IBM's  Media Hub' solution in addition to video calling applications.
Based on the cooperation with IBM, the Israeli Chief Scientist Office and IBM jointly granted iPoint the sum of NIS
500,000 in a special  Tafnit' program to cover the research and development costs of integrating Vitrage into IBM's
Media Hub.
As a result of the economic slowdown in the media market and the restructuring at IBM, iPoint did not succeed in
achieving a significant proportion of the revenues expected from the media sector for the period under review. The
slowdown in advertising revenues has had a significant impact on the media sector as a whole and budgets for
new projects in particular. Consequently, the directors believe that revenues derived from the media vertical will
continue to be affected during 2010. iPoint-media plc
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
5
Chairman's Statement
CONTINUED
During 2009 iPoint did not succeed in enlarging its revenues from the content aggregators vertical although the
Group continues to pursue opportunities to market its technology called  Glaze', creating an interface to existing
web-based video chat and content delivery platforms, which enables subscribers to connect from 3G mobile to
these services.
Financial review
The Company generated revenues of  1,275,908 ($1,990,416) for the year ended 31 December 2009 compared
to  871,802 ($1,608,475) for the year ended 31 December 2008 and gross profit of  1,065,509 ($1,662,194)
compared to  706,927 ($1,304,281) in 2008. The results represent an increase of 46 per cent. in revenue and
51 per cent. in gross profit. The delivery of several projects to mobile operators through Ericsson's market units
during the period was a key factor in the improvement of the results.
The year ended 31 December 2009 produced a net loss of  547,378 compared to  2,612,894 for the year ended
31 December 2008. The net loss of 2008 included  1,293,900 loss from impairment of goodwill compared to  nil
in 2009. The reduction in net loss in the year ended 31 December 2009 compared to 2008 was achieved principally
due to the increase in revenue and a 23 per cent. reduction in operating expenses.
Although revenues were still relatively modest, the Group has commenced certain projects already which are due
to complete in 2010 and the Directors believe that there are good growth prospects in iPoint's key markets and
that the Group's products and capabilities are well-matched to market requirements.
On 14 August 2009 the Group announced a Subscription Offer (with priority to existing shareholders) of  1,727,000
in Units comprising:
- 7,040,000 placing shares at 4 pence per Ordinary Share; and
-  1,408,000 8 per cent. Unsecured Loan Notes due in 2013 with 14,960,000 Bonus Shares at par.
On 13 November 2009, the Group announced that it had received applications under the Open Offer and the
Subscription Offer amounting to  1,090,412 and extended the closing date of the Subscription Offer to 15 February
2010. On 17 February 2010, the Group announced that it had received applications under the Open Offer and the
Subscription Offer amounting to  1,727,000, the maximum aggregate amount that could be raised under the
Open Offer and the Subscription Offer.
The Bonus Shares are not capable of being sold, transferred or pledged to any third party for a period of one year
from issue and for a period of a further year in respect of 50 per cent. of these Bonus Shares.
Nisko Investments Ltd agreed not to withdraw or otherwise impair Nisko's guarantee of iPoint Media Ltd's overdraft
facility with United Mizrahi Bank Ltd for the duration of the term of the Loan Notes issued by the Group(for a period
of 4 years from date of issue), up to NIS 1,970,000 (the Guarantee ). The above undertaking shall replace Nisko's
existing undertaking (provided in December 2008) not to withdraw or otherwise impair the guarantee (in an amount
of NIS 3,500,000) until 31 December 2009. iPoint-media plc
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
6
Chairman's Statement
CONTINUED
Operational highlights during the period
Material operational achievements for the Group in the year ended 31 December 2009 were:
  Ericsson and iPoint-media jointly demonstrated the new  GOliveCare' product at the Mobile World Congress
2009. GOliveCare is a new live interactive mobile video solution for healthcare providers.
  In March 2009, the Group announced that following an extensive trial period, a major mobile operator has
selected the Group's Vitrage platform to provide interactive video calling services over its newly deployed
3G/UMTS network through the Group's partnership with Ericsson Turkey & Israel.
  In October 2009, the Group was awarded a patent which covers key elements of its video distribution
technology, known as  Vitrage'. The unique video proxy technology is the basis for the video application
platform and enables large scale video distribution and transparent connectivity and switching of multiple
video sources.
  During 2009 the Group succeeded to deliver, through Ericsson's marketing channel, four projects and several
trials with European and Asian mobile operators.
  In December 2009 a Chinese national MobileTV operator selected the Group's new product GOliveStudio
(based on the Vitrage video application platform and the GOliveTV application) for immediate deployment. The
purchase of the GOliveStudio will enable the MobileTV Operator's production workstations to manage, audit
and publish video interactive show settings and production.
Outlook and Strategy
In 2010, iPoint will be focusing on completing the sales cycle and deploying its solutions with several operators
through Ericsson. Several trials with Ericsson are ongoing or have been concluded successfully. The directors
believe that several projects through Ericsson will materialise during 2010.
Our strategic decision to open a representative office in China is important for the Group and we're happy to have
been selected by a leading Chinese national MobileTV Operator so soon after we started activities in China and
hope that it is an indication of the large potential of the Chinese market for our Vitrage video application platform.
The outlook of the media vertical looks promising with the new product of the GOlivestudio that was initially
developed for the Chinese market and now might approach the media market in Europe. With the collaboration
with IBM, the Group expects new opportunities to be presented.
Existing business with content aggregators is slowing down and it is more difficult to assess the outlook of this
vertical.
I should like to thank all of our team for their commitment, professionalism and creativity, which has placed iPoint
as a frontier technology pioneer in the broadcast and media sector.
iPoint remains utterly committed to its core values: total quality and innovation, increasing its revenues and
developing its relationships with partners and customers.
E Sagi
Chairman