 Full year profit before tax  1.66m (2005: loss of
 1.35m) excluding an exceptional item. Profit
before taxation including an exceptional profit of
 0.33m was  1.99m (2005: loss of  1.35m).
T urnover up 39% to  14.10m (2005:  10.16m)
excluding an exceptional item. The turnover
including the exceptional item was  14.40m
(2005:  10.16m)
Y ear end cash balance remains strong at  5.70m
(2005:  3.41m) 
Financial Highlights
ITIS HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND A CCOUNTS 20 06
For the year ended 31st March 2006, pre-
exceptional turnover increased by 39% to
 14.06m (2005:  10.16m). Exceptional
turnover of  354,000 (2005: nil) represents
income from UK customers relating to the year
ended 31st March 2005 that was not declared
to the Group until after the publication of the
2005 financial statements. The costs related to
this exceptional turnover were  23,000 and
the Group therefore recorded an exceptional
profit in the year ended 31st March 2006 of
 331,000 (2005: nil).
T urnover for the year ended 31st March 2006
came predominantly from the Group's UK
business - from traffic data sales to RDS-TMC
customers; from data sales to local and central
Government and other third party
organisations; and from customers using the
Group's various mobile telephone information
services.
With the majority of its cost base fixed, the UK
business made a pre-exceptional profit before
taxation of  2.58m (2005: loss  0.76m) and a
post exceptional profit before taxation of
information to seventeen car manufacturers
and to seventeen personal navigation devices
and aftermarket systems.  We believe there are
now over 250,000 users of our traffic
information through these channels and we
expect continued growth.
Floating Vehicle Data (FVD ), which covers
the entire UK road network, has proven itself
to be of very high quality.  This unique data set
is at the heart of our real time and historic
information and is presented in various formats  
dependent on the requirements of the end
user.  FVD predominantly generates road
speed and flow information and is
supplemented with a rich incident data feed
provided to us, under an exclusive agreement,
by Trafficlink, the UK's leading provider of
incident based traffic information.
Under the terms of our partnership with the
AA, we support both web based and mobile
phone services under our exclusive use of the
AA Roadwatch brand.  Mobile phone users can
access our real time traffic information across
all the major networks using unique short dial
numbers. During the year under review, we
have added greater functionality such as places
of interest and specific incident reports to
enrich the quality of the service.  
We continue to focus NavTrak, our stolen
vehicle tracking business, on the very top end
of the prestige car market and now factory
install our system for Bentley, Ferrari and
Maserati.  This has enabled us to concentrate
on quality engineering and customer service at
a price point which sustains profitability.
We expect to continue to win new business in
the UK and to renew existing contracts as they
fall due.
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Financial Overview
2
UK Business Review
Stuart Marks 
Chief Executive
Sir Trevor Chinn, CVO
Chairman
Since ITIS shares were admitted to trading on
the AIM Market in 2000, the Company has
become one of the UK's leading providers of
traffic information and has experienced a
period of substantial growth leading to its first
full year of profitability in 2006.  The
turnaround in our UK business from a loss of
 0.76m in the year ended 31st March 2005 to
a pre tax profit of  2.58m for the year under
review demonstrates the robustness of our
business model, the quality of our service and
the advantages of our high operational gearing.
Our traffic business began in early 2002 with
the launch of our commercial RDS-TMC
service in the UK initially supported by BMW
and T oyota. We have since developed TMC
into a business which now provides traffic
 2.92m (2005: loss  0.76m). These results
again demonstrate that the Group's operational
infrastructure is capable of supporting
incremental business without substantial
increases to its cost base.
The Group continued to invest heavily in its
research and development centre in Israel
during the year, spending  871,000 (2005:
 548,000). 
On a Group basis, pre-exceptional profit
before taxation was  1.66m (2005: loss before
taxation  1.35m), rising to  1.99m (2005: loss
of  1.35m) on a post exceptional basis.  Basic
and diluted earnings per ordinary share were
2.1p (2005: loss per ordinary share of 1.3p).
The year-end cash balance remains strong at
 5.70m (2005:  3.41m). 3
UK business continues to experience strong growth
and is highly profitable
Interest remains high in Cellular Floating Vehicle
Data (CFVD ) from the US and other countries
Revenues from Missouri CFVD contract expected in
the latter part of the current financial year
Business Highlights
Overseas Business Review
Our UK customer base and the services we
provide to them act as valuable reference
points for our overseas development, especially
in countries where commercial traffic
information services are only now beginning to
be launched. Our competitive position is
materially enhanced by our ability to offer
proven experience and applications to these
new markets.  
In many overseas markets, and especially in the
US, there has been a marked roll out of on
board navigation systems in the last eighteen
months helped greatly by the falling costs of
hardware.  Of greater interest to ITIS is the
growth in the number of GPS equipped mobile
phones in the US to support the E-911
legislation that requires a mobile be locatable
when an emergency call is placed.  Penetration
with some networks is now over 80%.  The
networks are moving quickly to provide other
Location Based Services of which navigation and
traffic consistently feature in the top three
services most required.  We believe that
working directly with the mobile phone
networks to produce traffic information from
their raw data will enhance their willingness to
supply us and will create a new revenue stream
for both ITIS and the networks.
Our partnership with Delcan.NET in the US is
proving very successful.  Our similar cultures
allowed for an effective handling of our first
projects in Baltimore, Maryland and the current
state-wide roll out of CFVD in Missouri. By
partnering with Delcan we have been able to
fully explore and develop our business in the
US along side an organisation which already has
successful relationships with many Government
Departments Of T ransport (DOT s ).  Our first
goal is the successful delivery of existing projects
in order to provide 'proof of concept' and
ensure that we achieve a reputation for delivery
and quality.  We believe that this approach will
enhance negotiations with other DOT s.  
We have stated previously that the quality of
our CFVD service and our roll out plans in the
US are dependent upon support from mobile
network operators and ensuring a reliable
supply of data from them.  In this regard, there
have been some delays on the Missouri project
outside of our control.  First revenues from this
contract are now not expected until the latter
part of the current financial year. 
In the US our agreements with mobile network
operators are likely to include a fixed annual
payment to ensure the delivery of data to us in
a market ready format.  As a consequence early
stage costs of some US projects, including
Missouri, will be proportionally higher.
We remain optimistic about opportunities in
Europe and are involved in a number of
advanced negotiations for the provision of traffic
information.  We are very pleased with the
quality of data now being provided in Antwerp,
Belgium which has become an important
reference site for us.  However, as we are
predominantly focussing on Government
agencies and large mobile operators, the exact
timing of when overseas contracts will be
awarded is difficult to predict precisely. 
Our licensee in Australia, T raffic Intelligence Pty,
is making excellent progress and is already
working with a major mobile operator.  We
expect our first revenues from this region in the
current year.
Our office in Israel is now exclusively managing
the Group's R&D effort.  We have a very bright
and able team there focused on ensuring that
we retain a leading position with our traffic
technology. 
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE ANNUAL REPORT AND A CCOUNTS 20 06  ITIS HOLDINGS PLC Current Trading & Prospects
The Board believes that ITIS has the ability to
become a world leader in traffic information
services.  
Revenues and profits from the UK business are
showing consistent strong growth and, whilst
we are still in the very early stages of
developing our overseas business, our
performance in the UK is an excellent indicator
of what we are able to achieve once we have
established our presence in a market.  
The current financial year has started well and
the Board is confident that ITIS will maintain its
exciting high growth.
Sir Trevor Chinn, CVO, Chairman
Stuart Marks, Chief Executive
7 June 2006
4 ITIS HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND A CCOUNTS 20 06 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE