 Corporate governance statement
IXEurope Annual Report 2006
18
Corporate governance statement
IXEurope Annual Report 2006
19
The attendance of the individual Committee members at Audit Committee meetings is shown in the table below:
       
 Attendance
  Richard Mead 3 / 3
  Sir Anthony Cleaver 2 / 3
  Erick Rinner 3 / 3
Karen Bach attended all Audit Committee meetings at the request of the Audit Committee Chairman.
During the year , the Audit Committee considered the following points:
  Approval of Annual and Interim accounts;
  Approval of Annual and Interim announcement;
  Approval of the Short Form Report and Working Capital Report for the IPO;
  Review of Terms of Reference for the Committee;
  Scope, fees and timing of the external auditors;
  Valuation of assets acquired in Munich;
The Audit Committee considers auditor objectivity and independence in the event of the provision of non-audit services.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Sir Anthony Cleaver , comprises the Non-Executive Directors and operates within 
defined Terms of Reference. There has been no requirement for the Committee to meet in the year.
The objective of the Nomination Committee is to oversee the appointment of new Directors (Executive and Non-Executive) and to 
ensure appropriate objectivity in the selection and appointment processes.
While the Nomination Committee has not met formally in the year it has discussed the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director 
and devised a job description and defined the capabilities that person will require.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Richard Mead, comprises the Non-Executive Directors and operates within defined 
Terms of Reference. 
The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to oversee the setting and the review of all compensation-related elements for the 
Members of the Board and Senior Management of IXEurope.  The Committee must ensure compensation is fair and reasonable and that 
compensation incentivises Executive Directors and Senior Management in an appropriate way.
The attendance of the individual Committee members at Remuneration Committee meetings is shown in the table below:
 Attendance
  Richard Mead 4 / 4
  Sir Anthony Cleaver 2 / 4
  Erick Rinner 4 / 4
The Directors' Remuneration Report is set out on pages 20 to 23.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The implementation 
and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive Directors and Senior 
Management. The internal control system is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and can therefore only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Turnbull Report provides further guidance as to how the Code principles on internal control and risk management should be 
applied in practice. The Board has in place risk assessment processes within all the Group's divisions and procedures have been 
established to implement the guidance. There is an ongoing process for identifying, managing and reviewing any changes in the risks 
faced by the business. The Board carries out an annual risk assessment and controls review.
Key features of the Group's internal controls include:
  regular and comprehensive information provided to management, covering financial performance and key performance 
indicators, including non financial measures;
  annual budgets covering three years are prepared for each IXDatacentre  and compared with monthly management 
reporting, which focuses on actual performance against these budgets (annual budget is approved by the Board);
  procedures for the approval of capital expenditure and investments and acquisitions;
  regular internal audits of key processes and procedures under the Group's ISO 9001 accredited quality assurance process;
  ongoing procedures to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the business in accordance with the guidance 
of the Turnbull Committee on Internal Controls and procedures to monitor the control systems in place to reduce these risks 
to an acceptable level; and
  the Group accounting and procedures manual which sets out the Group's accounting practices, revenue recognition rules and 
accounting under IFRS.
IXEurope does not have a dedicated internal audit function, although regular internal audits are conducted under the Group's ISO 9001 
accredited quality assurance process. The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function and concluded that current 
arrangements are adequate given the structure of the Group's accounting function and the size of the Group. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests in the Group's strategy and performance. The Group 
holds briefings with institutional investors primarily after the publication of interim and annual results.  The Company also organises 
tours of its datacentres for investors and analysts in order to assist them in better understanding the business. The Company actively 
seeks feedback from shareholders, and communication is also provided through the investor relations section of the Company's 
website, www.ixeurope.com.
The Annual General Meeting is a forum for shareholders with the opportunity to meet and question Board members including the Non-
Executive Chairman and Chairmen of the Committees.
Going Concern
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a 
period of at least 12 months from the date of this report. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
By Order of the Board
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sir Anthony Cleaver
Chairman As an AIM listed company, IXEurope is not required to comply with the provisions of the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 
2002. However, as part of the Group's commitment to the early adoption of best practice in corporate governance, strenuous 
effort has been made to adhere to these provisions.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee advises the Board and makes recommendations to it about all elements of the remuneration 
packages of the Executive Directors. The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were Richard Mead as 
Committee Chairman, Sir Anthony Cleaver and Erick Rinner. The Chief Executive may attend the Remuneration Committee by 
invitation and assist the Committee with its considerations. No Director is involved in setting their own remuneration plan.
In monitoring competitiveness of the remuneration policy, the Committee has reviewed market information to compare all 
elements of remuneration for Executive Directors against a comparable group of UK companies with operations outside the UK.
Remuneration Policy
The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to oversee the setting and the review of all compensation-related elements for 
the Members of the Board of IXEurope.  The Committee must ensure compensation is fair and reasonable and that compensation 
incentivises Executive Directors and Senior Management in an appropriate long-term and short-term way. The Committee and the 
Board believe that in order to attract and maintain a team of the right calibre it is necessary to provide competitive market-based 
packages which reward Group and individual performance and motivate senior executives to achieve stated business objectives and 
deliver outstanding shareholder returns. Remuneration packages comprise:
  basic salary 
  annual performance related bonus
  other benefits
  participation in the share incentive plans.
The Group introduced two share incentive schemes in 2006 of which the Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries. 
The elements of remuneration that are performance related must be highlighted.
Basic Salary
Salaries are normally reviewed annually. Pay reviews take into account Group and personal performance and externally 
benchmarked market data for comparable companies.
Performance Related Bonuses
Performance related bonuses for the Executive Directors and Senior Management are based on a combination of EBITDA and job 
related performance.
Pensions
The Executive Directors are entitled to a company pension contribution, providing they themselves make a contribution, which is 
paid into the UK Group Personal Pension Plan that is also open to UK permanent employees.
Benefits
Benefits in kind include the provision of a car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and permanent health 
insurance.
Share Incentives
The Company runs two share options schemes for Executive Directors, The IXEurope Founders Share Option Scheme and The 
IXEurope Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
 
Remuneration report
IXEurope Annual Report 2006
20
Remuneration report
IXEurope Annual Report 2006
21
Performance Graph
250
200
150
100
50
0
07/04/06 30/04/06 31/05/06 30/06/06 31/07/06 31/08/06 30/09/06 31/10/06 30/11/06 31/12/06
FTSE Aim SS Technology   - Price Index
FTSE Aim All-share- Price Index
IX Europe
Non-Executive Directors
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. Their remuneration is not pensionable and they are not 
eligible for performance-related remuneration by way of a cash bonus or participation in any share option scheme.
Service Contracts
The service contracts and letters of appointment of the directors include the following terms:
 
Date of Notice Period Period of
 Appointment *  Appointment
  Executive Directors 
  Guy Willner 3 April 2006 12 months -
  Christophe De Buchet 3 April 2006 12 months -
  Karen Bach 3 April 2006 12 months -
  Non-Executive Directors
  Sir Anthony Cleaver 15 March 2006 3 months 3 years
  Richard Mead 14 March 2006 3 months 3 years
  Erick Rinner 28 March 2006 3 months **
* Date of appointment is the date of the latest signed contract.
** While Milestone Capital Partners Limited (formerly European Acquisition Capital Limited) own at least 10% of the issued share 
capital of the Company, they have the right to appoint one person to the Board, known as the EAC Director.
The Executive Directors are on rolling contracts and offer themselves for re-election by rotation in accordance with the Company's 
Articles of Association.
Upon termination of their service agreement, Executive Directors are entitled to salary equivalent to their notice period.
Performance Graph
The following graph shows the total shareholder return from 7 April 2006, the date of the Company's flotation on the London 
Stock Exchange's Alternative Investment Market (AIM) against the corresponding change in a hypothetical holding in shares in AIM 
Technology Index and the AIM All Share Index. 
The AIM Technology Index represents a broad equity index in which the Company is a constituent member. The share price of the 
Company at 7 April 2006 (being the date of the Company's flotation) opened at 22p and closed at 30p and at 31 December 2006 
was 49p.
 