 4
Chairman's statement
Charles Rice, Chairman
Another excellent year for James 
Fisher with revenue and underlying 
profit up by 18% 
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chairman's statement
Group Results and Dividend
In making my first full year statement as Chairman,  
I am pleased to report that 2012 was another excellent 
year for James Fisher with revenue up by 18% to 
 363.3m and underlying profit before tax up by 18% 
at  35.4m before separately disclosed items and by 
57% after such items. With no acquisitions being made 
during the year, the 18% headline figure reflected 
purely organic growth, with the Group benefitting from 
its consistent strategy of focusing on marine services 
and the high growth markets outside of the US and 
Continental Europe. 
James Fisher's Offshore Oil businesses did particularly 
well, reflecting strong market conditions and the benefit 
of the significant investment made in these businesses 
in recent years. Specialist Technical continued to show 
double digit growth with our Nuclear business doing 
well and with the benefit of the new Angola contract 
showing through. Marine Oil improved as the measures 
to bring own capacity into line with demand produced 
benefits. Only our Defence division, as previously 
flagged, produced a lower result due to the re-
negotiation of two of the Foreland charters and to a gap 
in project work at our submarine rescue business.
Following the sale of The Railway Engineering 
Company (TRE) in December, year end gearing was 
reduced to 39% from 75% last year. This figure reflected 
both the  25.5m proceeds from this disposal and the 
continued strong cash conversion of the Group at 
132%.
The strong trading performance of the Group in 2012 
and the continued positive outlook has led the Board 
to propose a final dividend of 11.83p per share which 
is 10% up on prior year and which together with the 
interim dividend of 5.87p makes a total dividend of 
17 .70p per share for the year (2011: 16.08p per share). 5
Group accounts Governance Business review Overview
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chairman's statement
Strategic Highlights
On December 31, the Group sold TRE for  25.5m in 
cash and realised a gain on disposal of  20.9m. TRE 
was acquired as part of the Strainstall Group in 2006. Its 
focus on the rail industry and its rapid growth in recent 
years led the Board to decide that the time was right for 
TRE to be sold to a new strategic owner who would take 
it forward to the next level. The sale achieved good value 
for James Fisher.
We have today announced the acquisition of Divex 
Limited (Divex) for an initial cash consideration of  20m. 
Divex is a global leader in the design, supply and 
assembly of diving and subsea equipment. The company 
is a lead supplier to the commercial offshore sector as 
well as to navies across the globe. It matches James 
Fisher's strategic criteria well, being a strong niche player 
with a well established reputation and brand and a broad 
revenue spread across international markets.
Divex will now form the major part of a new Subsea 
Division within our Specialist Technical business stream 
together with our James Fisher Defence submarine 
rescue unit. By grouping these businesses together 
we will aim to achieve significant benefits both in terms 
of market penetration into the commercial as well as 
defence sectors and of production efficiencies.
Our earnings in Marine Oil have begun to improve as we 
have reduced capacity to meet contract demand. Over 
the next two to three years we would expect to make 
further adjustments to our fleet both in total and between 
tonnage types. We have therefore decided to recognise 
the likely book losses that will be incurred as we continue 
with this process by taking a  9.2m impairment to the 
value of our ships at year end.
Board and Staff
Tim Harris retired on 31 July 2012. During his ten years 
as Executive Chairman, James Fisher saw its fortunes 
transformed with profit and turnover quadrupled and the 
share price increased by seven times since 2002. The 
Group was reshaped from its origins as a domestically 
focused coastal tanker business into the UK's leading 
marine services business, with its subsidiaries operating 
worldwide and 60% of revenues coming from outside 
the UK. The Board would like to express our appreciation 
to Tim for the great contribution that he made to the 
Group and wish him well for the future.
With Nick Henry having been a successful CEO of long-
standing, the Board decided that the new Chairman 
should be non-executive. The transition to this corporate 
structure has gone well, with the Executive team of Nick 
Henry and Stuart Kilpatrick (Group Finance Director) 
Ship-to-Ship Transfers 
Fendercare Marine is a world leader in ship to ship transfers in the oil and gas market. 
Operating from a global network of 40 strategically located bases, Fendercare 
successfully completed over 3,500 transfers worldwide in 2012, increased its market 
share, and handled a variety of cargoes including crude oil, white and black oil 
products and liquid gases.
Dividends per share (p)
11.88
13.45
14.72
16.08
17.70 2012               
2011               
2010               
2009               
2008
Underlying diluted earnings per share (p)
35.4
37.0
41.9
48.4
55.7 2012               
2011               
2010               
2009               
2008 6
leading the Company but with the continued active 
involvement of the Chairman in the key issues.
One of the strengths of James Fisher has been the strong 
management teams in the Group's subsidiaries. This has 
enabled the Group to be structured in a de-centralised 
way, with initiative and entrepreneurial ambition supported 
and encouraged. I am pleased to say that the transition 
at Board level has not disrupted this management team 
which continues to function well and with enthusiasm for 
the future.
As a service company, our key asset is our people and 
their professional approach to the business and operating 
challenges which they face every day, both onshore 
and at sea. I would like to thank all our staff for their 
tremendous contribution to James Fisher's continuing 
growth and success.
Outlook
Over the last several years, James Fisher has pursued a 
consistent marine service strategy focused on the world's 
growing regions rather than on the more mature markets 
of Europe and North America. This strategy has worked 
well and will remain the focus of our development as 
the Group moves forward. The strength of the Group's 
balance sheet enables us to continue to invest in our 
businesses to strengthen their 
market position and to boost 
organic growth. We will also 
keep opportunities for bolt-on 
acquisitions under review where 
these can speed the development 
of our businesses. 
The rapid pace of offshore oil and gas development 
worldwide means that our Specialist Technical and 
Offshore Oil divisions are well placed to continue their 
growth pattern of recent years. The growing scale 
and scope of James Fisher's service offering means 
that these divisions have a spread of income across 
all phases of the production cycle from development, 
through production to decommissioning. Their 
engineering and service skills have direct application 
not only to the oil and gas sector but to the nuclear, 
offshore renewables and specialist defence sectors. 
These skills are increasingly interdisciplinary and can 
be applied to major contract opportunities, where we 
currently see strong demand. The Board is conscious 
of the increased risks which come with these types 
of contract so we will hold to a measured pace of 
development in this area.
Our Marine Oil division has improved its results as a 
result of the management action taken in recent years.  
By matching our capacity to the changing requirements 
of our customers as we move forward, this division 
should be able to maintain and hopefully improve its 
trading performance.
Trading in 2013 to date has been to management 
expectations and we continue to be well placed to 
provide further growth and value for our shareholders. 
Charles Rice
Chairman
5 March 2013
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chairman's statement
EMSA Oil Spill Response   
A key task for the European Maritime Safety Agency is to make available additional 
at-sea oil recovery resources to assist EU States responding to large scale 
incidents such as the Erika (1999, France) and Prestige (2002, Spain). James 
Fisher provides three vessels fully equipped as stand-by Oil Spill Response 
Vessels operating in the Irish Sea and English Channel. The vessels are the 
Galway Fisher, Forth Fisher and Mersey Fisher and each can be rapidly converted 
for oil pollution response activities.  These vessels are equipped with specialised 
oil spill response equipment including a radar based oil slick detection system 
and are able to decant excess water so maximising the utilisation of the onboard 
storage capacity. These vessels are also able to heat the recovered cargo and 
high capacity pumps to facilitate the discharging of heavy viscous oil.
The Railway Engineering Company 
was sold on 31 December 2012 
realising a profit of  20.9m with cash 
consideration of  25.5m 