 2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
Sales for the year increased by  22.7 million to  809.9 million, a rise of 3%. Operating
margins (before exceptional items) were 8.7%, compared with 9.9% last year, mainly as
a result of the anticipated higher labour, utilities and repair costs. Operating profit
(before exceptional items) decreased by 9% to  70.4 million, and profit before tax
(before exceptional items) reduced by 15% to  46.1 million. Profit before tax (after
exceptional items) was  38.7 million (2004:  46.3 million). Earnings per share (before
exceptional items) decreased by 7% to 16.4p, with earnings per share (after exceptional
items) being 13.1p (2004: 14.6p).
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW
Cash outflow, in respect of capital investment, was  38.7 million,
and net gearing at the year end was 129% (2004: 117%). This
increase in gearing was due to a reduction in the number of shares
in issue as a result of share purchases by the company. Net interest
was covered 2.9 times (2004: 3.3 times) by operating profit (before
exceptional items). Free cash flow, after payments of tax, interest
and capital investment of  14.2 million in existing pubs, decreased
by 6% to  68.8 million, resulting in free cash flow per share of
37.1p, more than double earnings per share. 
Average sales per pub
increased by 1% in the year
under review...
The company recorded exceptional losses in the year of  7.4 million
before taxation (2004:  7.8 million). This amount included the
anticipated loss on the sale of 8 pubs, together with provisions
against several other properties. It also includes  3.0 million of
exceptional start-up costs, under our new distribution arrangements,
and  0.9 million of restructuring costs. 
We opened 13 pubs during the year, compared with 28 in the
previous year. The total number of pubs now operated by the
company is 655. Average sales per pub increased by 1% in the year
under review, with like-for-like sales declining by 0.6%, offset by
higher sales from newly opened pubs. 
DIVIDENDS 
The board proposes, subject to shareholders' consent, to pay a 
final dividend of 2.82p per share on 25 November 2005 to those
shareholders on the register on 28 October 2005, bringing the 
total dividend for the year to 4.28p per share, a 10% increase 
on the previous year. 
FINANCE 
The company had  53.1 million (2004:  74.7 million) of unutilised
banking facilities and cash balances as at the balance sheet date,
with total facilities of  387 million (2004:  412 million). 
The year's capital expenditure on new pub developments was more
than covered by free cash flow. We anticipate that, in the current
financial year, the company will generate a cash surplus, after
capital expenditure and dividends, which will be available for 
debt reduction, share buybacks or a combination of both.
RETURN OF CAPITAL
During the year, 16,455,000 shares (representing approximately 9%
of the issued share capital) were purchased by the company for
cancellation, at a cost of  43.3 million, representing an average cost
per share of 262p. There was a cash outflow in the year, in respect
of shares purchased, of  45.7 million. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW  
CONTRIBUTION TO THE UK ECONOMY
Pubs often receive criticism for antisocial behaviour, resulting from
excessive drinking. However, it should be borne in mind that the
percentage of alcoholic drinks consumed in pubs has declined
dramatically in the last 25 years, from approximately 83% of total
consumption to approximately 60% now. 
In assessing the effect of companies like Wetherspoon on the
economy, it is important to note that we pay approximately 
 311 million in annual taxes of one kind or another. In addition,
almost all of our remaining turnover involves payments to our
18,000 staff and independent British and Irish companies, many of
which are small businesses. The great majority of our customers is
extremely well behaved, and the company makes a major
contribution towards the economy. 
We anticipate that, in the
current financial year, the
company will generate a cash
surplus, after capital
expenditure and dividends,
which will be available for debt
reduction, share buybacks or a
combination of both...
LICENSING
In April 2004, the company was successful in renewing the licences
of all of our existing pubs, without any objections from either local
residents or the police, and also successfully lodged licensing
applications for all of our pubs and managers under the new
legislation. Most pubs have not yet had their applications granted,
but the indications are that permission will be granted and that pubs
will, therefore, be able to open approximately one hour later than
now, on weekdays, and approximately 1-2 hours later, on Friday and
Saturday evenings. These hours are similar to those operated in
Northern Ireland and Scotland, where the company trades
successfully and where there does not appear to be significantly
greater problems of social disorder than in England and Wales. 
The process involves considerable initial and continuing expense,
and we strongly argued in favour of the retention of magistrates, 
but the administration so far of licensing by local authorities has 
not caused undue problems. 
THE TRADING ENVIRONMENT 
As indicated in our recent annual announcements, pubs in general
have experienced a considerable increase in competition from
supermarkets, the off-trade generally and from duty-free imports
from the continent. This has been combined with a reduction in the
number of people visiting many town and city centres, as a result of
unfavourable media coverage of problems associated with excessive
drinking in some areas. 
Wetherspoon has attempted to address some of these issues. 
We continue the strong promotion of food, soft drinks and coffee.
We have also, alone among our competitors, banned 2-for-1 drink
offers and the discounting of double measures of spirits. In the case
of spirits, this has resulted in the percentage of double measures
reducing from 90% to 50% in the course of the last two years. 
This may have had some impact on turnover and profitability, 
but indicates our willingness to adopt sensible policies and our 
co-operation with the authorities in this area. 
NON-SMOKING
We have continued opening non-smoking pubs and have now
opened 7 new pubs which do not permit smoking and have
converted 29 existing pubs to this format. We plan to bring the total
number of non-smoking pubs to approximately 50 by this Christmas.
This will then allow us to review the performance of these non-
smoking conversions in the early part of 2006.
The initial impact of introducing non-smoking in existing pubs has
resulted in turnover declining by approximately 7% and profit margins
declining, as there is a significant swing from bar sales to lower-
margin food sales and a consequential increase in labour costs. 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW
A ban on smoking in pubs, as most commentators agree, is
inevitable - and we feel that it is important to learn, as early as
possible, about the nature of the impact and the types of marketing
and other policies which can be adopted to minimise the economic
impact on our business. 
Some critics have stated that it would be better to wait until
smoking is banned, before banning it in our own pubs. However, 
we feel that it is better to take the initiative, rather than adopting 
a non-smoking policy at the same time as everyone else, without
significant previous experience of its impact. 
The great majority of our
customers is extremely well
behaved, and the company
makes a major contribution
towards the economy...
BOARD CHANGES
Tony Lowrie resigned as a non-executive director of the company on
23 March 2005, and Brian Jervis has intimated that he will not seek
re-election at this year's annual general meeting. I would like to
thank both Tony and Brian for their significant contribution to the
company over the years. Liz McMeikan was appointed as non-
executive director on 1 April 2005, and it is our intention to appoint a
further non-executive director, following Brian's intended retirement.
PEOPLE
I would like to thank our employees, partners and suppliers for their
dedicated work in what has been a challenging year for the company. 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING
STANDARDS (IFRS)
The company is required to report for the first time under IFRS for
the 6 months to January 2006. This transition is not expected to
have any significant impact on the stated results of the company,
and preparations for the transition are well advanced. A separate
announcement detailing the impact of IFRS on the opening balance
sheet and profits is anticipated in November 2005.
The likely areas of impact include the treatment of lease incentives,
property leases, deferred tax on rolled-over property gains and
interest-rate hedging. 
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Like-for-like sales in August declined by 1.7%. The company, as
indicated in our interim results statement, has made considerable
efforts to reduce costs, both at head office and in the pubs. We are
also keeping a tight grip on capital investments, pending clarity on
the impact of a smoking ban - initially in Scotland and then in the
rest of the UK. 
The company continues to strive to widen the range and improve the
quality of products offered to customers. For example, in the course
of the next few months, we are introducing Italy's number-one
coffee, Lavazza, and a range of new bottled beers, draught ales and
lagers, as well as new products in most other categories. In addition,
the company has introduced several award-winning cider and perry
products over the last few months and has seen a significant
increase in sales of other products, such as Pimm's. Food remains a
significant part of our business, and we continue to experiment with
regional and local produce, together with trialling enhanced menu
availability, particularly in our non-smoking pubs. 
As a result of our strong cash flow, our dedicated and experienced
management team and the loyalty of our customers, we remain
confident for the future. 
Tim Martin
Chairman
2 September 2005