 2 Jennings Brothers plc 2004
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
A SIGN OF
PRIDE
&
PASSION
In the year ended 28 February 2004, the
first full year since the implementation 
of its revised strategy, the Group has
made further good progress towards its
objective of profitably growing its quality
leased pub estate and its Free Trade,
Brewing and Brands business, with a 13.5%
increase in normalised pre-tax profit.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
In my interim statement I reported a solid
advance towards the Group's financial
growth objectives. I am pleased to report
continued progress has been maintained
over the full year with the Group's
financial results continuing to show
improvement across all the main criteria,
in line with the Board's expectations.
T urnover has increased by 5.4% to  17.24m
(2003:  16.36m) but, on an underlying
basis, growth was of the order of 9%,
reflecting the inclusion in the early months
of 2003 of turnover from residual managed
houses.
Operating profit for the year was  3.81m
(2003:  3.36m), representing an increase
of 13.4%. Operating margin improved to
22.1% (2003: 20.6%).
Normalised profit before tax (excluding
profits and losses on the sale of
properties) increased by 13.5% to  2.85m
(2003:  2.51m). On a similar basis,
normalised earnings per share was 
10.4% higher at 19.1p (2003: 17.3p).
Year-end total net assets were  27.35m
(2003:  26.03m) representing a net asset
value per ordinary share of 258 pence
(2003: 245 pence), up by 5.3%.
Net debt at the year-end was  19.83m
(2003:  17.53m), with gearing at 72.5%
(2003: 67.3%).
DIVIDENDS
The Board is proposing a final dividend
per ordinary share of 4.3p (2003: 4.1p), up
4.9%, which, if approved at the AGM on
25 June 2004, will be paid on 30 June 2004
to ordinary shareholders on the register at
the close of business on 14 May 2004.
Together with the interim dividend per
ordinary share of 2.4p (2003: 2.3p), up
4.3%, and paid on 28 November 2003,
dividends per ordinary share total 6.7p
(2003: 6.4p), up 4.7%. Dividends per 
share are covered 2.85x (2003: 2.76x) 
by underlying earnings per share.
TRADING OVERVIEW
The business has continued to show
growth across all trading sectors. This has
been achieved against a background of
declining sales in the on-licensed beer
market as a whole, demonstrating that we
are increasing market share. The positive
sales trend reported in the first half year,
helped by the excellent summer weather,
has continued over the year as a whole.
In the InnVentures leased and tenanted
pub business we have made further good
progress towards our goals of achieving
ongoing double digit profit growth and
continuing to improve the overall quality
of the estate. InnVentures operating profit
increased by 16.2% to  5.39m (2003:
 4.64m). In the core estate (excluding
acquisition and disposal houses) like-for-
like drink sales increased by 3.2% and pub
profits increased by 8.9%. We acquired a
further nine quality pubs during the year,
and initial results are ahead of our
investment criteria overall. Once again,
acquisition progress has been somewhat
slower than hoped for, but Jennings
continues to adhere strictly to its internal
rate of return criteria to ensure that the
acquisition programme adds value for
shareholders. 3 Jennings Brothers plc 2004
THE GENUINE TASTE
OF THE LAKE DISTRICT 4 Jennings Brothers plc 2004
In the Free Trade division, sales volumes
have increased by 8.3% overall, and
turnover is up by 7.0% to  5.95m (2003:
 5.56m). The three trade channels in our
Free Trade business have all increased
year on year sales volumes: Free Trade
Direct sales to on-trade customers by 
6.6%, National On Trade by 8.0% and Off
Trade by 23.5%. We have increased our
investment in Free Trade resources during
the year to build further on the current
sales growth momentum and to exploit
further new business opportunities. Free
Trade operating profit for the year was
 0.93m (2003:  0.92m) with year on year
growth restricted to 1.1% by the effect 
of the increased resource.
The Board remains convinced of the merits
of the Group's Castle Brewery, situated on
the edge of the Lake District in Cumbria,
as an efficient producer of distinctive
quality ales, enabling the Company to
exploit its location in marketing its brands
as  The Genuine Taste of the Lake District'.
Sales of the Jennings brand portfolio
continue to show steady and sustainable
growth, with overall volumes increasing
by 7.5% and Cumberland Ale, our lead and
biggest selling brand, growing by 24.4%.
At the end of March 2004, Jennings
launched draught Ward's Best Bitter, which
was previously withdrawn by Vaux
following the closure of the Ward's brewery
in Sheffield five years ago. Ward's is a
long-established regional ale brand in
South Yorkshire. As well as having a
considerable potential in its original
heartland, Ward's will extend the overall
appeal of the Jennings ale portfolio with
this addition of a beer of  Y orkshire heritage.
The launch was well received and, at this
early stage, indications are positive.
LEGISLATIVE BACKGROUND
The trade continues to be faced with a
degree of uncertainty, as the Licensing
Act 2003 becomes a reality in 2004/5.
Whilst the change in legislation presents
an opportunity for well-run pubs to
benefit from more flexible opening hours,
the implementation of the Act has been
disappointing with delays and additional
administrative burden and cost placed on
the pub operator. We will work with our
lessees and tenants to help with the
transition.
The issue of  binge drinking'is currently in
the headlines and on the Government's
law and order agenda. Jennings has
minimal exposure to the High Street
branded pub sector, which has seen 
over-supply leading to heavy discounting.
Jennings'policy is not to support
irresponsible discounting and promotions.
A well-run pub should promote
responsible and sociable drinking, along
with other activities, such as good food 
or entertainment, and be an asset to the
community in which it is located.
Smoking in public places is currently
another equally important issue for our
pubs. Jennings'policy is to encourage 
our licensees to sign-up to the voluntary
charter on smoking and as a minimum
provide no-smoking areas in our pubs.
We support the industry position of self-
regulation on this issue by providing
proper facilities for both smokers and
non-smokers, along with steps to provide
protection for members of staff.
In the recent Budget, and in response to
industry representation, the Chancellor
extended the upper qualification limit for
progressive beer duty relief, but not to the
level that European legislation would
permit. Whilst Jennings now qualifies 
for the relief, the benefit is minimal - 
we estimate the duty cost saving to be 
0.3 pence per pint. In reality, regional
brewers like Jennings are left to compete
against both the economies of scale of the
national brewers and the duty subsidies
offered to microbreweries.
PEOPLE
As was reported in the Interim
Announcement, during the year Des
Gallagher joined the Group as Sales and
Marketing Director and David Stevenson
as Finance Director, enabling John
Houghton to transfer to Pub Operations
Director. Accordingly, Executive
representation on the Board has doubled
to four from two.
The development of Jennings' people,
and the customer-focused culture in
which they work, remains a key part 
of the Group's business strategy. Again
this year, the Group has invested more
than ever previously in the training and
development of its employees and its pub
lessees and tenants. The Board thanks
them all for their dedication and
enthusiasm. The Board would also like to
recognise the contribution to the results
for the year of the Group's trading
partners within the InnVentures pub
business and the support of its many 
Free Trade customers.
CURRENT TRADING
Trading in the first two months of the
new financial year was in line with the
Board's expectations, with sales volumes
and turnover continuing to show growth
against prior year. Since the year end,
Jennings has completed the acquisition 
of four more pubs at a cost of  2.2m,
bringing its total number of pubs to 130.
FUTURE STRATEGY AND
PROSPECTS
Our business strategy is founded on quality
pubs, quality products and quality people.
We have built up a pub estate consisting
of quality businesses with a long-term
sustainable future, which are well run 
and supported by a stable, well-motivated 
and skilled team of licensees and Head
Office staff.
In the brewery, the emphasis is clearly
focused on producing high quality ale
brands. Whilst the brewery is an efficient
operation, we use only the finest
ingredients and traditional brewing
methods, in contrast to the major brewers
of today, whose focus is firmly about low
cost production.
We will continue to grow and improve the
quality of the InnVentures pub business
by selective acquisition, through the
refurbishment and development of the
estate in partnership with our lessees,
and through effective recruitment,
training and development, and support
for our lessees.
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT ( CONTINUED ) 5 Jennings Brothers plc 2004
In the Free Trade we believe there is a
significant opportunity to further grow
our business and exploit our Jennings
brands by taking advantage of our unique
and marketable location. The potential for
Ward's Best Bitter presents an exciting and
low cost opportunity to develop a
significant new brand income stream. In 
a marketplace where the national brewers
continue to become increasingly focused
on their national and international lager
brands, the opportunities for Jennings
remain strong. The growth will come 
from both the local Cumbrian heartland,
where the brand awareness and demand
for Jennings brands is already strong, and
through national trade channels. The Free
Trade growth strategy complements the
InnVentures pub strategy as a much less
capital-intensive source of future profit
growth and cash generation.
I have commented before that Jennings 
is a very different company today, from
that of two years ago. The Company has
successfully implemented its new strategy
to concentrate on growing a quality leased
pub business and Free Trade, Brewing and
Brands business; it has been substantially
de-risked and is now in a period of steady
sustainable growth. We have a solid
platform to grow the business further 
and I believe we have the management
competencies and infrastructure in place
to operate a larger business should
expansion opportunities arise. In the
meantime, the Board expects Jennings to
continue to move forward in the current
year and beyond through both organic
growth and pub acquisitions.
John Rudgard 6 May 2004
Chairman