 2 John Laing plc
CHAIRMAN'S
STATEMENT
W W FORRESTER
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
OUR BUSINESS 
STRATEGY >
WE HAVE A SINGLE AGENDA
OUR SECTOR FOCUS 
ON PUBLIC SERVICE
ACCOMMODATION,
ROADS AND RAIL HAS
PROVED TO BE A
PLATFORM FOR
SIGNIFICANT GROWTH
IN ACTIVITY 3 John Laing plc
Last year, I reported that John Laing was making progress after a very
difficult period.
I am now extremely pleased to report a return to profitability for the
Group and excellent progress in our fast growing infrastructure development,
investment and operations businesses.
2003 has been a year of successful implementation following the
fundamental review of strategy in 2002. Our programme of disposing of
non-core operations is largely complete, and our sector focus on public
service accommodation, roads and rail has proved to be a platform for
significant growth in activity.
Your Board remains committed to a strategy of delivering sustainable
project earnings and cash returns, together with continuing growth in value
of the infrastructure assets developed and managed by the Company.
RESULTS
The Group profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2003 was
 21.2 million, compared to a prior year loss of  14.1 million. The figure for
the 2002 loss has been restated from a previously reported loss of  18.6
million to reflect a consistent basis of accounting for the expanded PFI
portfolio and the adoption of FRS 17 for pension accounting.
The profit before tax attributable to the continuing businesses was
 16.7 million compared to a prior year profit before tax for the same
businesses of  1.2 million as restated (refer to note 1). This progress
reflects the growth in the profitability of the investments portfolio.
DIVIDENDS
As previously stated, the Board intends to align dividends more closely
with earnings. Clearly we need to recognise the change in our earnings
profile and that shareholders' returns will derive from capital as well as
earnings growth.
For the year ended 31 December 2003 the Board is recommending a
final dividend of 2.0 pence per Ordinary Share (2002 - 4.8 pence), bringing
the total for the year to 3.0 pence per Ordinary Share (2002 - 6.8 pence).
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June
2004 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 2 April 2004.
DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
During 2002, in line with the re-positioning of the John Laing Group, the
Board was strengthened through the appointment of three independent
non-executive Directors, Tim Boatman, Paul Meredith and The Baroness
Noakes. Subsequently two of the four executive Directors left the Board
following the sale of the Property and main UK House Building businesses.
All three independent non-executive Directors appointed in 2002
have made a significant contribution to the business during a period of
restructuring, and in particular I would like to thank The Baroness Noakes,
who resigned from the Board subsequent to the year end to concentrate
on other business interests.
Since the reconstitution of the Board in 2002, there has been a
major change in structure and focus of Group activity but there have also
been substantial developments in relation to best practice and corporate
governance in business, culminating in the new Combined Code issued in
July 2003.
The requirements of the new Combined Code are stringent in
relation to many matters, including the balance to be maintained between
executive and independent non-executive Board representation, and the
Group will be moving to ensure complete compliance in this regard. As a
consequence, it is the Board's intention to make further appointments
during 2004 to bring Board composition into line with both the new
Combined Code and the nature of the restructured business.
...THE GROUP'S
CHANGE IN
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
HAS CREATED THE
UK'S LISTED MARKET
LEADER IN PFI/PPP
INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS THROUGH
INNOVATION AND
DELIVERING QUALITY
SOLUTIONS  4 John Laing plc
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
After many years' service to the John Laing Group, Sir Martin Laing, former
executive Chairman and a current non-executive member of the Board, will
step down from the Board with effect from 30 April 2004. The Board has
invited Sir Martin to accept the honorary position of President. On behalf of
generations of Group staff and Board colleagues, I would like to thank Sir
Martin for his wholehearted contribution to the Company over nearly four
decades and, in particular, I wish to express my gratitude for the invaluable
support he has given to me as his successor over the last two years.
Recent years have thrown up the challenge of major change as the
John Laing Group has striven to overcome past difficulties and create a
renewed and profitable business. I would like to pay tribute to the
enthusiasm and commitment of the many staff who are contributing to
improved performance and to the establishment of a soundly based
profitable company - a leader in its field with an exciting future.
DISPOSALS
During the year the Group received the final  214.8 million of proceeds
from the sale of Laing Homes Limited and divested its interest in three of
the four residual housing businesses for a combined profit after costs of
 1.2 million and a net cash receipt of  53.9 million.
Subsequent to these transactions the Group's only retained housing
interest is its 30% stake in Octagon Developments Limited (net book value of
 15.8 million at 31 December 2003), which it intends to divest in due course.
The Group sold its Australian Airport interests during 2003 for a
combined profit on disposal of  4.9 million and a cash consideration of
 19.4 million, of which  13.2 million was received in 2003 and the remainder
at the end of January 2004. The move reflected both John Laing's strategic
focus on the accommodation, roads and rail sectors and also a decision to
concentrate bid resources on emerging European opportunities.
ACQUISITIONS
The purchase from Amey plc of a portfolio of project interests plus a
pipeline of bidding opportunities was completed in March 2003 for  29.1
million in cash and the assumption of  13.8 million in future equity
commitments. During 2003 these investments were successfully
integrated into the John Laing operating structure and underlying project
performance was in line with our expectations. The acquisition was
particularly useful in strengthening our position in the UK schools market.
One further acquisition was carried out in 2003 with the  1.8 million
purchase of 100% of the equity in the operational Cleveland Firearms
Facility. Taken together with the Gravesend Firearms & Public Order
Training Facility, the acquisition gives John Laing complete coverage of
this PFI sector in the English and Welsh markets, reinforcing a market
leading position in the police sector as a whole.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW
After taking these movements into account, the John Laing portfolio at
31 December 2003 included 33 project interests of which 22 are fully
operational. A further 3 projects reached financial close during January 2004.
Operational projects are performing well, with the risk transfer
inherent in our approach to sourcing construction and service activities
proving robust. The value of the portfolio remains heavily weighted towards
less risky projects with availability based payment mechanisms. Our most
significant exposure to volume risk relates to Chiltern Railways where both
passenger revenues and profits grew ahead of expectations during 2003.
A valuation exercise has been conducted in line with the methodology
that we have consistently applied since 2000, and the application of that
methodology has been independently verified. The results indicate a
portfolio valuation of  250.3 million - a 23% growth over the December
2002 valuation after movements in the portfolio are taken into account.
> THE PROFIT BEFORE TAX OF THE
CONTINUING BUSINESSES WAS  16.7
MILLION COMPARED TO A PRIOR YEAR
RESTATED PROFIT OF  1.2 MILLION
> PURCHASE FROM AMEY PLC OF A
PORTFOLIO OF PROJECT INTERESTS PLUS
A PIPELINE OF BIDDING OPPORTUNITIES
> JOHN LAING PORTFOLIO INCLUDED 33
PROJECT INTERESTS OF WHICH 22 ARE
FULLY OPERATIONAL
> A FURTHER 3 PROJECTS HAVE REACHED
FINANCIAL CLOSE DURING JANUARY 2004
> PORTFOLIO VALUATION OF  250.3 MILLION,
A 23% GROWTH OVER THE REBASED
DECEMBER 2002 VALUATION 5 John Laing plc
RETAINED LIABILITIES
The Group retained a number of liabilities following the sale of Laing
Construction in 2001, relating both to residual construction activity and
potential contract disputes. Provision was made in the 2001 accounts for
the estimated costs to complete these contracts, which have been
successfully managed in the interim. No substantive construction work
now remains to be completed and a number of potential disputes have
been resolved. Accordingly, the Board has concluded that it is prudent to
release  2.6 million to the profit and loss account. The Board is confident
that the remaining provision is sufficient to satisfy the Group's commitment
in respect of all retained liabilities.
PENSIONS
The FRS 17 post retirement deficit has reduced during the year from  146.8
million to  129.5 million, which further reduces to a net  93.7 million after
accounting for the associated deferred tax asset (2002 -  103.8 million).
Employer contributions re-commenced from 1 January 2003 and employee
contributions have been re-introduced as of January 2004. It remains Group
strategy to address the deficit over time, and to this end a schedule of
contributions has been agreed with the John Laing Pension Fund Trustees
providing for the contribution of an additional  4 million per annum over and
above the normal level for the period from 2004 to 2007, at which point we
will review the future funding requirements.
PROSPECTS
Prospects for the infrastructure development, investment and operations
business remain excellent. Bidding activity, expanded in 2002, has lead to
a significant growth in both preferred bidder positions and the identified
pipeline of future opportunities in each of our key sectors.
In July 2003 the UK Government confirmed its intention to continue
to utilise PFI in key social infrastructure sectors targeted by the Group, and
the latter half of 2003 saw a marked evolution of the UK's secondary
market for operational infrastructure assets, which, as it matures further,
will allow the Group to release significant value from signed projects.
More broadly, a number of opportunities are now emerging in the
European and wider OECD markets where John Laing's specialist
development capabilities position it well for pursuing new activity in
association with strong local partners.
John Laing is now established as a market leader. The Group is
active in sectors where new opportunities are developing apace and where
the Board is confident that its established track record and focus on
quality will continue to grow and create value for shareholders.
W W Forrester
Chairman
22 March 2004
...THE BOARD IS
CONFIDENT THAT THE
GROUP'S ESTABLISHED
TRACK RECORD AND
FOCUS ON QUALITY
OUTCOMES WILL
CONTINUE TO GROW
AND CREATE VALUE
FOR SHAREHOLDERS