 Chairman's Statement
Introduction
I am delighted to report that during the year, major progress was made 
in the automation of ANGLE's Parsortix non-invasive cancer diagnostic 
system. 
Results
Planned investment principally relating to Parsortix was increased to  2.5 
million (2012:  1.7 million). This comprised operating costs of  1.6 million 
(2012:  1.7 million) and capitalised expenditure of  0.9 million (2012:  nil).
The loss for the year of  1.0 million (2012: loss  2.7 million) reflected the 
operating costs of  1.6 million (2012:  1.7 million) offset by a fair value 
gain on non-controlled investments of  0.5 million (2012: fair value loss 
 1.3 million) and other income of  0.1 million (2012:  0.3 million). 
The cash balance was  1.8 million at 30 April 2013 (30 April 2012:  
 1.1 million).
Share issues 
We are grateful to our loyal shareholder base for their continued support 
during the year. Fundraisings completed during the year raised  3.3 million 
to support the development of Parsortix and strengthen the Company's 
balance sheet.
Business development 
ANGLE made substantial progress with its Parsortix non-invasive cancer 
diagnostic system during the year.
The system can capture and identify circulating tumour cells (CTCs) in 
cancer patient blood. CTCs are shed into the bloodstream by primary cancer 
tumours and are the cause of secondary cancers. They exist in the blood of 
cancer patients in numbers that are sometimes as low as one cell in a billion 
and are very difficult to isolate. 
Parsortix's ability to capture and identify CTCs in cancer patient blood 
should enable a simple blood test to allow:
  prognostic assessment of patients to predict the likely course of their 
cancer, enabling a more informed consideration of their treatment 
options;
  monitoring of cancer patients during treatment to assess their progress 
and determine which treatments are likely to be effective for them;
  post-treatment monitoring of patients in remission for early detection  
of potential relapse, with the potential to improve treatment success 
rates for secondary cancers.
Highlights
Development of Parsortix PR1 system completed
  Successful development of the automated Parsortix 
PR1 medical device and the patented GEN3 
cassette for the capture and identification of 
circulating tumour cells (CTCs) from patient blood
  Extensive testing of the Parsortix system completed 
leading to release of the system for evaluation by 
targeted key opinion leaders in the fields of cancer 
diagnosis and treatment
  Developed and automated a new process for the 
harvesting of intact CTCs for DNA analysis. The 
resulting liquid biopsy  addresses a major new 
market for personalised cancer patient care
Medtech operational capability strengthened
  Board of Directors strengthened with the 
appointment of Brian Howlett, who brings a 
deep understanding of the medical diagnostics 
market including product development, regulatory 
authorisations, major corporate deals and go-to-
market strategies
  Scientific Advisers, Professor Adrian Newland 
CBE (no relation to ANGLE's Chief Executive) and 
Professor Ashok Venkitaraman appointed to help 
guide the Parsortix non-invasive cancer diagnostic 
system to market. They provide crucial medical 
knowledge, market understanding and established 
relationships with key customers
Financial
  Equity issues during the year raising  3.3 million  
to support investment in Parsortix
  Loss for the year of  1.0 million (2012: loss  
 2.7 million)
  Cash balance at 30 April 2013 of  1.8 million  
(30 April 2012:  1.1 million)
Continued progress subsequent to the year end
  University of Surrey Oncology Group completed 
successful third party validation of Parsortix 
technology for colorectal cancer. The Parsortix 
system demonstrates twice the sensitivity of 
established techniques for CTC capture 
  Cancer Research UK's Paterson Institute for Cancer 
Research identified key operational advantages for 
the Parsortix system and has included Parsortix in 
its ongoing efforts to deliver personalised medicine 
  Plan developed for regulatory authorisation to allow 
the initiation of clinical sales in the European Union 
(CE Mark) by the end of 2013 and in the United 
States (FDA 510(k)) in mid 2014 
  Specialist, larger scale manufacturer appointed to 
manufacture the PR1 machine with the necessary 
quality systems and capacity to support the 
roll out into the clinical market once regulatory 
authorisations have been received
Garth Selvey
Chairman
06
ANGLE plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 During the year, the development and automation of the Parsortix PR1 
medical device and GEN3 consumable cassette was completed.
The capability of the system was greatly enhanced through the 
development and then automation of a new process for the harvesting  
of CTCs for DNA analysis. The resulting liquid biopsy  addresses a major 
new market for personalised cancer treatment.
Extensive testing of the Parsortix system was successfully completed, 
leading to its release to ANGLE's research partners, the University of  
Surrey Oncology Group and the Paterson Institute for Cancer Research. 
Both partners have now worked extensively with the system.
The Parsortix system has also been released for evaluation by key opinion 
leaders at other major global centres of excellence in cancer diagnosis and 
treatment. 
Subsequent to the year end, University of Surrey Oncology Group 
completed successful third party validation of Parsortix technology for 
colorectal cancer in which the Parsortix system demonstrated twice the 
sensitivity of established techniques for CTC capture; and the Paterson 
Institute for Cancer Research identified key operational advantages for the 
Parsortix system and has included Parsortix in its ongoing efforts to deliver 
personalised medicine.
Also subsequent to the year end, a plan has been developed to secure 
regulatory authorisation for clinical sales in the European Union (CE Mark) 
by the end of 2013 and in the United States (FDA 510(k) procedure) in mid 
2014. This authorisation will, from mid 2014 onwards, allow the initiation 
of clinical sales, where the Parsortix PR1 system will be used in patient 
treatment as well as research.
A specialist, larger scale manufacturer has been appointed to manufacture 
the PR1 machine with the necessary quality systems and capacity to 
support the roll out into the clinical market once regulatory authorisations 
have been received.
The importance of the medical need that Parsortix is seeking to address is 
highlighted in the recent Lancet* article profiling Professor Caroline Dive, 
Head of the Group at Paterson with which ANGLE is working and winner 
of the 2012 Pasteur-Weizmann/Servier Prize, where she was reported as 
having set her sights on the holy grail of cancer biomarker research: simple 
blood tests that can indicate how aggressive a tumour is, which therapy will 
be most effective, and show how the tumour is responding to treatment.  
Professor Dive added that We will be taking big steps forward with 
personalised medicine for cancer patients. 
In a highly successful year, ANGLE not only completed 
the key development phase for its Parsortix system for 
capturing CTCs but also developed a new capability  
to harvest intact CTCs from patient blood for DNA 
analysis. The Parsortix system has already been well 
received by our research partners and is now being 
evaluated by key opinion leaders in the fields of cancer 
diagnosis and treatment. ANGLE is now focused on 
securing regulatory authorisations to allow it to address 
the multi-billion pound clinical market for the treatment 
of cancer patients. 
Scientific Advisers
During the year, two world-leading scientific advisers were appointed  
to help guide the Parsortix non-invasive cancer diagnostic technology  
to market. They provide crucial medical knowledge, market understanding 
and established relationships with key customers.
Professor Adrian Newland CBE (no relation to ANGLE's Chief Executive) 
is Professor of Haematology at Barts Health NHS Trust and Queen Mary 
University of London. He is Director of Pathology for the Trust and is 
Clinical Director of the North East London Cancer Network.
Professor Ashok Venkitaraman holds the Ursula Zoellner Professorship  
of Cancer Research at the University of Cambridge, and is Director of  
the Medical Research Council's Cancer Cell Unit and Joint Director of  
the Medical Research Council Hutchison Cancer Research Centre.
Board of Directors strengthened
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Brian Howlett to the 
ANGLE Board. Brian brings a deep understanding of the medical diagnostic 
market, including product development, regulatory authorisations, major 
corporate deals and go-to-market strategies.
Other assets
In addition to Parsortix, ANGLE has a significant non-core investment in 
Geomerics, which is a computer games middleware and computer graphics 
company operating independently from ANGLE. Geomerics offers computer 
games publishers the only dynamic real-time lighting solution for their 
games. Geomerics is well positioned for growth with the imminent launch 
of the next generation games consoles (PlayStation4 and Xbox One) and 
new opportunities opening on mobile platforms, and it has already been 
adopted by key reference customers as their lighting solution for next 
generation games.
Outlook 
In a highly successful year, ANGLE not only completed the key development 
phase for its Parsortix system for capturing circulating tumour cells (CTCs) 
but also developed a new capability to harvest intact CTCs from patient 
blood for DNA analysis. The Parsortix system has already been well received 
by our research partners and is now being evaluated by key opinion leaders 
in the fields of cancer diagnosis and treatment. ANGLE is now focused on 
securing regulatory authorisations to allow it to address the multi-billion 
pound clinical market for the treatment of cancer patients.
Garth Selvey
Chairman
4 October 2013
* The Lancet Volume 381, Issue 9861, Page 107, 12 January 2013
07
ANGLE plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013