  
Chairman's Statement 2004  
2
I am pleased to be able to report that the outlook for the mineral and exploration industry has 
greatly improved since the issue of our last annual report. Metal prices have increased significantly, 
although unevenly, during the year. Copper in particular almost doubled within the twelve months 
ended 31 March 2004, and it is particularly interesting to note that it is now the case that more of 
the proj ected life-of-mine revenue from the P arys Mountain deposit would be derived from sales of 
copper than from zinc. This is reminiscent of P arys Mountain's long history of copper production in 
the 18th and 19th centuries. Obviously, the deterioration of the US dollar relative to sterling has had 
a negative effect, but overall the forecast proj ections for P arys Mountain based on current metal 
prices are most encouraging.  
Parys Mountain mine  
The company s P arys Mountain polymetallic mineral deposit contains an in situ geological resource of 
6.5 million tonnes. The total quantities of contained metal and the annual production of each metal 
are estimated to be as follows: 
Metal Units 
In situ geological 
resource
 
Metal production over 
first 7 years
   
Total Each year
 
Zinc  Lbs 760,000,000
 
35,500,000
 
Copper  Lbs 330,000,000
 
11,700,000
 
Lead   Lbs 370,000,000
 
17,200,000
 
Silver  Ozs 8,000,000
 
447,000
 
Gold Ozs 60,000
 
3,900
   
The chart (left) shows the sources of revenue 
for the P arys Mountain mine over the life-of-
mine 6.5 million tonne probable and possible 
resource. It is estimated that using current 
prices the mine would generate more 
revenue from copper than from zinc. 
However in the earlier years of production, 
the position is reversed and zinc would 
account for more of the revenue than 
copper; also over this early period there 
would be a much more significant 
contribution from silver and gold. These 
changing proportions highlight the 
advantages of  the  poly-metallic deposit in 
smoothing the effects of individual metal 
price variations. Note that a lack of data may 
be part of the reason for the apparent lower 
precious metal revenue contributions in the 
possible resources. Not shown in the chart is 
the effect of the W elsh gold premium which 
can be expected from at least part of the 
gold production. It can also be seen that the 
mine would benefit from any increase in the 
future prices of any or all of these metals, 
particularly zinc and copper.  
Zinc
38%
Copper
42%
Lead
14%
Silver
4%
Gold
2% 
Life-of-mine contributions to revenue 
This chart is derived from Kilborn Engineering s independent 
feasibility study which was completed in 1990 and which is 
based a mine production rate of 1,000 tonnes per day with 
separate zinc, copper, lead and gold concentrates. The chart 
has been based on  metal prices current during August 2004, 
directors estimates of future long term treatment charges 
and an exchange rate of US$1.83 to  1.    
Chairman's Statement 2004  
3
During the year the dewatering of the higher levels of the old mine workings at P arys Mountain was 
satisfactorily completed by Anglesey Council and others, and the water quality to the south of the 
Mountain has improved as a result. The old workings are separate from the area of our resources, 
however we believe there is useful information to be learned from them; additionally they are 
adj acent to a significant deposit, the Northern Copper zone, which was explored by maj or mining 
companies, including Noranda in the 1960s and 70s. At that time it was reported to contain 
36,000,000 tonnes at an average grade of 0.66% copper. It apparently was not assayed for gold.  
Financial results  
The operating loss for the year is almost unchanged at  120,005 compared with  121,299 last year 
before impairment. Of this loss  72,356 represents interest accruing in respect of the working capital 
loan from Juno Limited, the company's maj or shareholder, and the balance is the costs of evaluating 
other projects together with administrative and corporate expenses.  
The improvement in metal prices means that there is no requirement to make any further 
impairment provision in respect of the accumulated costs of the P arys Mountain proj ect this year. 
Indeed based on current metal prices, the impairment provisions made in the past three years would 
not have been necessary. 
Metal prices 
It was encouraging to note that the price of zinc increased substantially during 2003 reaching 45  per 
pound in December, well above the average of 35  per pound for 2002. In the first quarter of 2004 
the zinc price increased further reaching a high of 52  per pound in early March. Devaluation of the 
US dollar against most producer country currencies was a contributing factor. Nevertheless even 
these prices are well below the historical medium or long term prices. The recent weakness of the 
US dollar has led to a rise in the operating costs of most zinc mines.  
At the same time, after almost 20 years of excess zinc supply, a maj or supply gap is thought to be 
developing in world zinc markets. The opening of the new Century mine in Australia and the 
Antamina mine in P eru contributed to the oversupply of zinc from 2000 to 2002 but there are now 
believed to be no new large mine developments in the pipeline. At the same time, in 2002 China 
changed from being a large net exporter of zinc metal to a net importer with imports of over 370,000 
tonnes in 2003, thereby reversing a maj or negative factor for zinc supply and zinc price. W orld wide 
zinc demand increased 4.2 per cent in 2003. China is now the largest consumer of zinc in the world 
and much of the growth is attributable to metal consumption in China. 
At current metal prices approximately 38 per cent of the proj ected revenue from the P arys Mountain 
mine is expected to be derived from zinc (more in earlier years of production). Growth in zinc 
consumption is forecast to be strong in 2004 and Brook Hunt UK in its January Metal Bulletin forecast 
a supply deficit of over 300,000 tonnes in 2004; this in turn will lead to a reduction in LME 
inventories which should also lead to an increase in zinc prices  
The price of copper increased strongly in 2003 driven largely by economic growth. The rapid growth 
in developing countries in Asia, and especially China, together with the recovery of the American and 
European economies, has led to strong growth in consumption at a time of low metal inventories. 
Copper concentrates in particular remain in tight supply and the shortfall in concentrate has led to 
significant reductions in treatment charges and reduced metal production. With few new large mines 
coming into production a continuation of the global economic recovery should sustain copper prices 
at reasonable levels for the immediate future. 
Interestingly, 2003 marks the 15th consecutive year that silver demand has exceeded supply. This 
long-running consistent supply deficit is a particular characteristic of silver and has led some 
commentators to predict an eventual dramatic increase in the price of silver when Inventories finally 
run down. P arys Mountain contains about 8 million ounces of silver with a gross in situ value of over 
$50 million at today's prices.    
Chairman's Statement 2004  
4
Outlook  
For a number of years the directors have felt that the economics of P arys Mountain could be greatly 
enhanced if the mine production rate could be increased: higher daily production rates lead to 
better mine economics. There is no doubt that P arys Mountain has excellent potential for the 
discovery of the further resources needed to support higher production rates and with this in mind a 
maj or exploration programme has been planned, with the obj ective of delineating new mineral 
zones. Unfortunately, the weakness in metal prices, particularly zinc, which existed for about five 
years prior to 2004, made financing such an exploration programme difficult, except at share prices 
that would be very unattractive to existing shareholders. With the improvement in metal prices in 
2004, and the proj ected deficit in zinc supply, which should lead to a longer term sustained increase 
in the price of zinc, the prospects for Parys Mountain have improved enormously.  
To reactivate and advance the project, the following steps are planned, subject to financing:  
An update of the 1990 feasibility study, including examination of a 2,000 tonne per day 
production scenario (twice the rate used in the feasibility study) and a review aimed at 
optimising copper revenues. 
A review and reassessment of the Northern Copper zone to determine (a) if the zone contains any 
reasonable gold levels and (b) if there are any higher grade parts of the zone which could be 
mined and produced in conjunction with the polymetallic Engine and White Rock  zones.  
An assessment of the viability of the early pilot production of gold and silver as part of a second 
stage underground exploration programme. P arts of the Engine zone near the shaft and current 
underground development are known to contain high grades of gold that perhaps could be mined 
and processed in conjunction with further exploratory work.  
A major drilling programme on exploration targets related (i) to the Engine zone to the north and 
east of the current established resource and (ii) to the west of the adjacent White Rock zone.  
W e are currently examining a number of options for financing the plans set out above. The directors 
believe that the company s current share price, being less than both book value and proj ected net 
asset value, does not adequately reflect the value or potential of the company assets, and would be 
reluctant to issue new shares at this price.  
The ability to grant share options under the company s existing schemes having expired, we are 
proposing the adoption at the forthcoming AGM of a new share option scheme and recommend 
shareholders to vote in favour of this proposal which will provide the company with a valuable means 
of retaining and motivating those contributing to the success of the company. 
The improved outlook for metal prices, and market sentiment, has opened the possibility of 
attracting a j oint venture partner to help develop the P arys Mountain mine and this option is also 
being given careful consideration. At same time the improved outlook has also opened up other new 
proj ect opportunities for the company. A number of these opportunities have been examined in 
recent months and this exercise is continuing. I hope be able to report meaningful progress on these 
objectives in the not-too-distant future.  
I would like to thank shareholders for their continued patience and support through the lean times of 
the past few years. I believe we can now look forward to significant progress and better times ahead. 
John F. Kearney  
Chairman        
23 August 2004 