 Energy Supporting Energy
08 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010
Operational review
Chairman's and  
Chief Executive's statement
For more detail about  
our financial performance  
turn to pages 18-21.
For footnotes  
turn to page 21.
For more detail about 
corporate governance  
turn to pages 35-54.
Introduction
Following a comprehensive Board review of 
strategy, the recently announced acquisition of 
PSN and disposal of the Well Support division are 
key strategic moves to significantly enhance our 
focus on our core Engineering, Production Facilities 
support and Gas Turbine Services activities.
Following the expected second quarter completion 
of these transactions, Wood Group will be well set to 
grow its position as
 	 	 A	world-leading 	 engineering 	 business 	 with 	
strong market positions in upstream, subsea and 
pipelines
 	 	 The	world' s 	 leading 	 pr oduction 	 facilities 	 support 	
provider
 	 	 The	world' s 	 leading 	 independent 	 industrial 	 gas 	
turbine aftermarket provider
With global exploration & production (E&P) spend 
forecast to increase in 2011 and the global economy 
continuing to recover, we anticipate a period of good 
market growth over the next few years.
2010 Group performance
2010
$m
2009
$m
%
Change
Revenue 5,063.1 4,927.1 2.8%
EBITA 344.8 358.4 (3.8%)
EBITA margin 6.8% 7.3% (0.5%pts)
Profit before tax 254.6 264.8 (3.9%)
Basic EPS 32.4c 32.1c 0.9%
Adjusted diluted EPS 39.7c 41.8c (5.0%)
Total dividend 11.0c 10.0c 10%
ROCE 24.8% 26.3% (1.5%pts)
Cash generated from operations 394.5 545.5 (27.7%)
Revenue for the year was slightly up on 2009 but EBITA fell $13.6m 
to $344.8m. Overall, our business focused on customer operating 
expenditure (opex) continued to deliver a good performance, although 
results were affected by the slow recovery in certain power markets. 
In our capex-related Engineering activities, the relatively low bidding 
activity during 2009 carried forward into 2010, but picked up as the year 
went on. In Well Support, the higher average drilling rig level in the USA 
contributed to better volumes and profitability. 
Cash generated from operations was strong at $394.5m, following  
the exceptional 2009 performance. Reflecting our continued confidence 
in the longer-term outlook, we are declaring a final dividend of 7.6 cents, 
which will bring the full dividend for the year to 11.0 cents, up 10%  
on 2009.
Markets
Global E&P spend is set to increase as oil & gas operators seek to 
extract additional hydrocarbons from existing assets and invest in 
exploiting increasingly challenging reservoirs. In the oil & gas market, it 
is expected that the number of installations, both on and offshore, will 
continue to grow and, as the installations and reservoirs mature, asset 
integrity and production enhancement spending will increase.  
We are well positioned to support our customers around the world and, 
following the Macondo incident, we are seeing more client interest in our 
asset integrity, process safety and performance assurance services.
The power market has been less active in 2010, particularly in North 
America and Europe, driven by excess generation capacity and generally 
poor economics for the electricity generation sector. However, the 
longer-term fundamentals for gas fired power generation remain strong 
and we have recently won contracts in our Maintenance and Power 
Solutions businesses which reflect some recovery in the market and 
provide a significant increase in Power Solutions backlog. 
We believe the clean energy sector will grow over the longer-term,  
albeit more slowly over the next few years. We have some early 
contracts in this sector and our skills and expertise are well suited  
for the future growth.
Revenue by division
 Engineering & Production Facilities
 Well Support
 Gas Turbine Services
Revenue by region
 North America
 Europe
 Middle East & Africa
 Asia Pacific
 Central & South America At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
09 	
;
 go online at www.woodgroup.com
Strategy implementation
We have announced two decisive steps to implement the Board's 
strategic decision to enhance the Group's focus on its core Engineering, 
Production Facilities support and Gas Turbine Services activities. 
In December 2010, we announced the proposed purchase of PSN, 
who have over 8,000 personnel providing life of field support to oil & 
gas facilities through brownfield engineering, modifications, production 
enhancement, operations management, maintenance management and 
abandonment services. Upon completion, PSN will merge with Wood 
Group's Production Facilities business to create Wood Group PSN, 
which will have 22,000 people in over 30 countries across the world 
covering all the significant oil & gas development regions.
In February 2011, the Group agreed to sell its Well Support division to 
GE Oil & Gas for $2.8 billion, which, we believe, fully recognises the 
division's strong performance and future prospects.
Following the expected second quarter completion of the PSN 
acquisition and disposal of the Well Support division, Wood Group will 
be well set to grow its position as 
 	 	 A 	 world-leading 	 engineering	 business	 with 	 str ong 	 market 	 positions 	
in upstream, subsea and pipelines
 	 The 	 world' s	leading 	 pr oduction 	 facilities 	 support 	 pr ovider
 	 	 The	 world' s	leading 	 independent 	 industrial 	 gas 	 turbine 	 aftermarket	
provider
Looking ahead, we will further develop these market-leading positions 
by extending services and broadening our international presence 
through organic and acquisition-led growth in important new markets 
including Angola, Brazil, Canada, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.
Return of cash
Having considered the expected net proceeds from the disposal of 
the Well Support division together with the forecast operating cash 
flow of the continuing Group, including associated working capital 
requirements, the continuing Group's capex profile, nearer term 
acquisition opportunities and the recently announced acquisition of PSN, 
the Board intends that Wood Group will return cash to shareholders of 
not less than $1.7bn. Details regarding the return of cash are expected 
to be communicated to shareholders following completion of the 
disposal of the Well Support division.
The Board and people
Michel Contie was appointed to the Board in February 2010. On 
completion of the PSN acquisition it is intended that Bob Keiller, 
the CEO of PSN, will also join the Board. John Ogren will retire from 
our Board in May this year after almost 10 years' service. His wide 
knowledge of the oil & gas industry has been absolutely invaluable in 
developing our growth strategy for North America in particular and we 
thank him warmly for his invaluable advice and counsel.
A special thank you this year and best wishes to all our management 
and employees in Wood Group Well Support with whom we have 
Right Sir Ian Wood, 
Chairman
To read about our 
directors turn to  
pages 36-37.
Right Allister Langlands, 
Chief Executive
worked to build a great company. We believe that GE Oil & Gas will 
be an excellent new home for Well Support. The combination will be 
complementary in capabilities and technologies, and should benefit 
employees and customers.
And once again, our very warm thanks, on behalf of the Board and 
Senior Executives, to all Wood Group people around the world for their 
commitment and dedication to satisfying our customers' needs and 
consistently achieving continuous improvement. We are continuing to 
invest in the training and development of our people and are increasingly 
seeing the benefits of a global workforce. We are also pleased to 
support and encourage our people to become involved in community 
support activities around the world. 
Risks and uncertainties
Risks and uncertainties are inherent features of the oil & gas and power 
services industries and present challenges that cannot be completely 
eliminated. However, we assess risk carefully and seek to mitigate these 
to ensure that we can keep our people safe, serve our customers and, 
at the same time, achieve acceptable returns. 
Safety
4
Since 2004 we have seen year-on-year improvement in total recordable 
case frequency and in 2010 maintained this trend with a further 6% 
reduction. This reduction was achieved through a series of proactive 
initiatives with a focus on the higher risk areas of our operations. Our 
commitment to achieving the highest standards of safety in everything 
we do was recognised through a series of industry awards around the 
world. Continuous improvement is a key measure of our success and is 
given the highest priority. 
Outlook
This has been an exciting and decisive re-positioning period.  
Our enhanced focus on our market-leading positions in greenfield 
engineering, production facilities support, and the industrial gas 
turbine aftermarket increases our capability to add value to our clients' 
activities. We are well positioned to take advantage of the improving 
market conditions and will continue to pursue our strategy of targeted 
geographic expansion and extended services through organic and 
acquisition-led growth. Overall, we anticipate good growth over the next 
few years.
Sir Ian Wood,  Allister Langlands,  
Chairman Chief Executive