 6 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012
moderated during 2012, although it has 
shown some tangible signs of acceleration 
since the start of 2013.
Copper traded relatively well given the 
economic backdrop. The average LME price  
in 2012 was $7,949 per tonne, a 10% decline 
on the previous year, but this was the  
best performance of any base metal and, 
amongst all major metals, second only to 
gold. Copper is supported by restricted 
supply and continuous demand from a  
wide range of applications and it remains  
our favoured metal.
Costs have continued to rise with pressure 
from a variety of sources including lower 
grade as our existing mines mature. The 
combination of lower copper prices and 
rising costs squeezed profitability and 
improving efficiency is a key strategic  
focus for the Board. 
We continue to hold 26% of ENRC, which 
had a market value of $1,546 million at the 
end of 2012, compared to $3,289 million at 
the end of 201 1. ENRC suffered from pricing 
weaknesses for its key commodities and an 
increase in debt with the acquisition of new 
assets. In light of the significant difference for 
over a year between our carrying value of 
the ENRC investment and its market value,  
it has been necessary to write down the 
investment to a value approaching recent 
market valuations. The holding continues to 
offer strategic opportunities and provides 
diversification of earnings through ENRC's 
exposure to bulk materials. The Board's 
objective is to maximise the value of this 
investment for all shareholders.
The major asset in our power division  
is our 50% holding in Ekibastuz GRES-1,  
which again performed well, benefiting  
from continued investment in the power 
station and rising demand for power in 
Kazakhstan. We have announced that we  
are in discussions regarding our holding in 
Ekibastuz GRES-1. It is an excellent business 
and we remain committed to having captive 
power for our operations, but the Board 
believes that the value of this asset, which is 
the largest power station in Kazakhstan, is 
inadequately reflected in our share price.
I am delighted that Simon Heale has agreed  
to take on the role of Chairman. Simon 
joined the Board in 2007 and has served  
as Chairman of the Audit Committee for  
five years. His knowledge of the Group will 
assist him greatly in his new role and I will 
In 2005, we became the first company from 
Kazakhstan to obtain a primary listing on  
the London Stock Exchange. Since Listing  
we have aimed to balance the needs of 
different stakeholders, acknowledging our 
obligations to shareholders, employees,  
and the wider community in Kazakhstan, 
where our resources are based. Our Listing 
has allowed us to compare ourselves to the 
best peer group of international mining 
companies and has helped drive higher 
expectations of ourselves.
The successful raising of finance, both 
through our Listing and the subsequent debt 
facilities, has enabled us to bring our growth 
projects to reality. In 2012 we announced the 
approval of Aktogay, and together with the 
development of Bozshakol we are now 
moving towards a new Kazakhmys, which 
will be dominated by large scale, open pit 
mines, producing higher volumes of copper 
at a relatively low operating cost. This 
growth will transform the Group, taking 
copper cathode output from around 300 kt  
to over 500 kt, and will ensure a globally 
competitive future for copper mining in 
Kazakhstan. A key focus for the Board is  
to ensure the successful delivery of these 
major projects and the subsequent 
generation of future projects.
Our first obligation is to ensure the personal 
welfare of our workforce. The approach  
to health and safety has changed markedly 
over the last eight years, but clearly has 
some distance to go until we reach our  
core target of zero fatalities. In 2012 there 
were 19 fatalities, compared to 24 in 201 1 
and 33 in 2005. Safety is a key indicator of 
operational performance and operational 
management have to make safety their first 
priority. All fatalities are both unacceptable 
and avoidable and the Board will continue  
to demand continuous and significant 
improvement in health and safety.
The economic backdrop remained uncertain 
throughout 2012, but there is some basis for 
optimism. Europe continues to be held back 
by structural problems, but there has been 
improvement in the US, as it moves on from 
the trough of the financial crisis and benefits 
from low energy prices. Growth in China 
Chairman's Statement
 Investing  
for growth
In May 2012, I announced my intention 
to step down as Chairman of Kazakhmys 
by the time of our 2013 Annual General 
Meeting. After eight years as Chairman 
and with the major growth projects  
now firmly in progress, I believe this is 
the right time to hand over to a new 
Chairman. I will of course maintain  
my involvement with Kazakhmys, as 
executive chairman of Kazakhmys 
Corporation LLC, and as a major 
shareholder and a non-executive 
Director of Kazakhmys PLC. 7 www.kazakhmys.com
Detailed Information Financial Statements Strategic Report: Chairman's Statement
support Simon as required. Michael 
Lynch-Bell will be standing for election  
as a new non-executive Director at the  
Annual General Meeting and will become 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Michael 
has extensive experience in the sector.
Since Listing, our non-executive Directors 
have provided continuous support and 
advice and I should like to thank the Board 
for their assistance during my time as 
Chairman. Each of our Directors has skills 
relevant to our business, which combined 
with their personal commitment has led  
to invaluable input. The non-executive 
Directors make regular visits to our 
operations and interact with operational 
management, which has helped maximise 
benefit for all concerned.
The Directors recommend the payment  
of a final dividend of 8.0 US cents per share 
or $42 million. This payment, together with 
the interim dividend of 3.0 US cents per 
share, represents 1 1.0 US cents per share,  
or $58 million for the year as a whole. In the 
first few months of 2012 we repurchased  
6.1 million of shares, at a cost of $88 million, 
which completed the share buy-back 
programme, amounting to $166 million, 
announced in September 201 1. As I mentioned 
last year, it was likely that the Board would 
seek to moderate our payout level as we are 
entering a period of high capital expenditure, 
which is in keeping with our flexible dividend 
policy. The lower dividend also reflects the 
lower level of earnings. Once the first of  
our major projects is commissioned in 2015, 
the Board anticipates increasing our payout  
level, subject to market conditions. 
It should be noted that after this final dividend 
we will have returned a total of $1,776 million 
to shareholders, compared to $491 million 
raised at the time of Listing. Our cash returns 
compared to our market capitalisation are 
amongst the highest in the sector.
Over the past three years, with the support  
of the China Development Bank, we have 
raised $4.2 billion in debt for our major 
growth projects. In 2012 we replaced  
our other existing corporate debt facility 
with a $1 billion pre-export facility from a 
consortium of banks. Our debt is generally 
long-dated, but the Board is mindful of 
ensuring that the Group's financial strength  
is maintained.
 
For more information see pages
22 Summary Corporate Governance
50 Governance Framework
Key achievements  
since Listing
Listing in London
In 2005 Kazakhmys became the 
first company from Kazakhstan to 
list on the London Stock Exchange.
Secured $4.2 billion loan facilities
In 2010 and 201 1 we completed 
arrangements for long-term  
funding of $4.2 billion towards  
the development of our  
growth projects.
Progressing our major  
growth projects
The securing of the long-term  
debt has enabled the Group to 
commit to the delivery of the 
major growth projects, which  
will transform the output and  
cost base of our operations.
Copper remains an attractive metal, with  
a favourable demand and supply balance. 
With both of our major growth projects 
now funded and in development we have a 
clear route to transform our business over 
the next few years. The Board will remain 
focused on the delivery of these projects, 
improving the efficiency of our existing 
assets and ensuring the personal welfare  
of our employees. 
Vladimir Kim
Chairman
Meet our new Chairman
Simon Heale joined the Board of Kazakhmys in January 2007, becoming Chairman  
of the Audit Committee in December 2008. 
Q: First thoughts on becoming Chairman of Kazakhmys?
A: I am delighted to become Chairman. We are entering a dynamic period as the 
growth projects turn from plan to reality.
Q: What will be your strategic focus?
A: Supporting management in their delivery of the growth projects and in managing 
costs at the existing operations, as they transform Kazakhmys to a company dominated 
by a smaller number of large, low cost mines. I am committed to improving our safety 
record and I am pleased to be joining the Group HSE Committee.
Q: How do you bridge the gap from London to Kazakhstan?
A: I have visited the operations often and I am conscious of the significant position  
the Group holds in Kazakhstan as an employer and economic contributor.  
I will maintain good contact with operational management, 
to ensure the working of the Board remains relevant to 
the operations and its employees.
Kazakhmys has worked hard to combine the 
opportunities of new economies with the disclosure 
and regulation of the London market. I want to 
ensure that transparency and good governance 
remain central to our behaviour. 
T o read Simon's biography see page
20 Board of Directors 