 KCOM Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Review of Business 09
Chairman's Q&A 
and access to next generation network technologies, 
products and services, without the investment.
We announced more recently our agreement also with 
Phoenix IT Group, to provide field engineering services 
to customers on our behalf.
Now we are beginning the second year of our 
transformation plan and there is more to do, but the 
past year has seen substantial progress and puts 
us in a strong position.
Q: You said this was a two year transformation. 
What lies ahead for the next twelve months?
A: We have some remaining key milestones to achieve. 
Firstly, we are due to re-finance the business this year. 
We want to be in as strong a position as possible to 
secure the necessary funding on the best possible 
terms. That means further management of our debt 
and generating profitable growth.
We have also a tri-annual valuation due for our main 
defined benefit scheme, which was closed to new 
members in the mid 1990s. As you would expect, this 
scheme is in deficit and we are pleased to have reached 
an in principle agreement with the Trustees, on funding 
for the next three years.
In order to limit the continuing exposure of the business 
to such risks and uncertainties, particularly the ability of 
this deficit to grow in the future, and to harmonise pension 
arrangements for all our people, we have undertaken 
a consultation with all our employees. We are planning 
to move to a single Group pension scheme, closing all 
our existing schemes to future accrual. This will reduce 
significantly those risks and allow us to introduce an 
affordable and fairer, more equitable scheme for all 
our employees.
Finally, of course, there is the process of continuous 
improvement, investing for example, in our processes 
and systems, in order to keep raising the bar in terms 
of customer service.
Q: How would you sum up the past year's activities?
A: Challenging, focused and successful. The strategic 
review we undertook in 2008 helped us identify the actions 
we needed to take to put the Group into a healthy, stable 
position. Over the last year, we've made some of the most 
important changes needed and, I'm pleased to say, that 
these have been successful.
It is testament to the creativity and determination of 
everyone across the Group that we have been able to 
deliver such progress in a relatively short period of time.
Q: What sort of activities have you been undertaking?
A: From the strategic review, we identified two levels of 
action - firstly, those needed to deliver improved short term 
financial results and to strengthen our underlying financial 
position. These were primarily concerned with cost reduction 
and realignment and exiting low margin business activities.
The second set of actions was concerned with building a 
sustainable business. This involved having a clear focus, 
restructuring and reorganising and putting in place key 
partnerships to support and complement our core 
competencies and strengths while enhancing our 
competitive position.
Q: What have you achieved so far?
A: As our results show, we've made considerable progress 
financially. We have achieved a substantial reduction in the 
overall cost base of the Group, turned a material amount of 
fixed cost into variable cost, reduced the Group's capital 
expenditure requirements, reduced working capital and its 
volatility, improved both cash conversion and collection and 
made a very significant reduction in the Group's net debt.
In terms of creating a platform for growth and a sustainable 
business, most of the main building blocks of a successful 
transformation are now in place. We have restructured the 
business into two units, each with a clear market focus, 
making the business simpler and easier to understand and 
operate more cost effectively. We have focused those units 
on their core competitive strengths and underpinned them 
with market leading strategic relationships. 
First, we announced our agreement with BT, a relationship 
that has already made a clear difference both financially and 
strategically to the Group. Not only do we no longer have 
the financial burden of investing in our own national network, 
but we have access to extensive national network reach  KCOM Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
10 Review of Business
Chairman's Q&A 
continued 
accept is set to decline gradually, albeit over a long period 
of time. That core service will continue to be the backbone 
of KC well into the future, but does not mean there are no 
other growth opportunities available. The introduction of 
new products and services and controlled expansion of 
coverage, offer the ability for KC to grow in future years.
Over the last six months, KC has launched a range of 
new offerings for both consumers and businesses - new 
broadband packages, hosted services and data back-up. 
We have committed also an investment of  2.8 million to 
upgrade the IP core of the network, which will increase the 
resilience of our Karoo broadband service and provide a 
platform on which to launch new services. In the autumn, 
the KC team is hoping to launch bundled consumer services, 
subject to the regulator Ofcom granting permission.
In terms of geography, the business has a strong market 
share within its original licensed area of Hull and some 
surrounding parts of East Yorkshire, but there are clear 
opportunities to stretch the brand out into other parts of 
the region. Some of those adjacent areas are typically 
underserved by other competitors in the market. 
Our relationship with BT will benefit KC here, as we 
can address these markets in a cost effective way.
Q: At the last AGM, you took on the role of Executive 
Chairman for a period of two years. What is the plan 
after that?
A: Clearly that is a question for Shareholders and the Board 
rather than me! When I became Executive Chairman, 
acknowledging both the needs of the business and good 
governance, we committed that the combined role would 
be in place only for the two year transformation period, 
and would subsequently be reviewed. Again, subject to 
shareholder agreement, we would then assume the 
more traditional Board structure. My personal focus and 
commitment is on delivering our transformation plan, 
the core objective of which is shareholder value.
Q: How would you sum up the focus for this year?
A: While we have some key milestones to be achieved 
in this second year of the plan, our emphasis turns to 
growth. Over the past 12 months, we've built the 
foundations of a strong and profitable business, and now 
we have to grow it. Our commitment at the time of the 
strategic review was to generate increased shareholder 
value, and we remain committed to continuing to deliver 
on that promise.
Q: The strategic review was motivated primarily as a 
result of poor performance in the national business 
activities. Are you confident that the changes made 
can turn that business around?
A: Yes, we have formed our new Kcom business, 
underpinning it with a lower and more flexible cost structure 
and the key relationships with BT and Phoenix. Its position 
is now transformed from that of a year earlier. From a 
financial perspective, the changes we have made are 
delivering higher margins, and generating more cash, 
despite the lower revenue that has resulted from our 
decision to exit commodity activities. 
Our focus for Kcom is on building longer term, value added 
relationships with our target customers, where we are 
measured on our ability to support their business and on 
the level of service we provide. We are no longer engaged 
in low margin commoditised activities, such as simple 
product resale. Now we have a stronger, higher quality 
value added services business.
Q: Do you think Kcom can compete in that market?
A: We have a great opportunity now to provide a range 
of services to multi-site national organisations, in multiple 
sectors including retail, manufacturing, financial services 
and the public sector.
Through our relationship with BT, we can provide network 
connectivity and carrier services across the UK very 
competitively, which means we can link branch offices 
across the country. This, coupled with our key strengths 
and competencies, means we can create propositions to 
suit customers' requirements including hosting, contact 
centre solutions, applications integration and support in 
navigating the way through an increasingly rich and 
complex communications mix.
In response to our customers' needs, we are developing 
offerings specific to market sectors, helping solve the 
business and communications challenges being faced 
- handling customer calls effectively, reducing costs and 
improving internal collaboration and flexibility. The signs 
are that organisations are looking increasingly for the 
level of service that we can now provide.
Q: Kcom is clearly a growth part of the business. 
What about KC? 
A: Our KC business has grown successfully on the back 
of its fixed line telephone service, a service which we all 