 2 KELDA GROUP PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman's statement.
The results for the year were very
satisfactory and reflect three main factors:
  Outperformance, increased turnover and efficiency gains for 
UK water activities.
  The sale of our 46% interest in Waste Recycling Group (WRG).
  The continuing management and performance advantages of our
water industry focus.
JOHN NAPIER  Chairman 3 KELDA GROUP PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Group profit before tax benefited from the net
exceptional gain of  14.6 million made from the sale 
of our WRG interests. If you disregard exceptional gains,
profit before taxation of  191.6 million is 9.4% ahead 
of last year. The main drivers of profit increase were
increased UK turnover, continuing improvement from
operations and reduced interest costs. These benefits
were partially offset by a reduced US contribution due 
to the translation of the weaker US dollar. In total there
was an increase in EPS excluding exceptional gains 
and deferred tax to 46.2p, 9% up on the prior year.
The sale of our WRG interests, and cessation of our Timco timber 
operations in the US and subsequent sale of its assets, completed our
disposal programme supporting our water and waste water focus strategy. 
The smaller non-regulated service operations in the US, KeyLand property,
Loop business process services and contract operations in the UK now
leverage from, support and are sustained by our core businesses. The
proceeds of the WRG sale of  142.7 million were applied to reducing debt
and a share buyback programme, which was completed prior to year end.
Yorkshire Water Services (YWS) went from strength to strength. It improved
overall service levels and had outstanding operational performance achieving
three  band A' ratings in the regulator's January 2004 assessment of water
and waste water activities. It has continued to outperform expectations 
in operational and capital efficiencies. Within the period of the current price
determination to date it has led UK operational performance in achieving 
a 12% reduction in costs in real terms over a four year period. At the same
time it has continued to drive forward and improve service standards, water
quality and compliance obligations.
The performance of YWS in the year is particularly commendable as it was
achieved against the background of a challenge of severe water shortages.
Supplies were maintained without restriction or special drought orders. This
was achieved by a combination of a regional supply network, active water
resource management and measurement and close liaison and co-operation
with regulatory agencies, especially the Environment Agency, who work
actively with the company. It was also helped by our continuing investment
in advancing telemetry and business systems. The company won the
National Customer Service Awards for the  best use of technology in
customer services'.
The other UK operations had mixed results. Contract operations won one 
of the largest contracts awarded in recent times: the contract with the
Ministry of Defence (MoD) will earn revenues of  1 billion over the next 25
years for supplying water services to MoD sites in the Midlands, Wales and
South West region. This complements previous wins in Scotland. The MoD
contract is performing on plan to date. KeyLand had an on plan year. 
The business support services operation Loop performed below last year due
to unrecovered costs on a third party contract upon which Loop has given
notice to terminate since the year end.
The performance of the US operations remains satisfactory. They have
successfully completed the integration of the New England operations 
of American Water Works acquired in April 2002. However for the second
successive year the business experienced unusual supply and demand
conditions. Last year sales were down due to water restrictions because 
of drought, and in this year sales were down due to excess rainfall and 
well below average temperatures, which reduced demand. 
A new Aquarion Chief Executive, Chuck Firlotte has been appointed, as part
of a planned succession, having completed a three year period as director 
of UK water operations. The objective will be to accelerate the management,
operational and cultural integration of the US business which is currently in
its rate review cycle. The regulatory base of price determination in the US is
an expected rate of return on assets. Aquarion is involved in the process in 
its major regions. It is complex, as it involves a number of different regulatory
regional bodies. 
The waste water activity continues to develop with a successful start up 
and above planned performance of Aquarion's first major waste water
contract, awarded in Bridgeport in April 2003. The challenge of successful
growth by revenue improvement and the organic growth of water service
and waste water operations is being actively progressed.
In the wider field of corporate performance the company continues to
progress in environmental, social and corporate compliance areas. All 4 KELDA GROUP PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2004 4 KELDA GROUP PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman's statement continued...
activities of the company have an environmental purpose. Apart from the
direct provision of drinking water and waste water services the related
actions of improving drinking and river water qualities, improved waste water
treatment standards and enhanced recreational and bathing water and
beach standards, constitute major environmental improvements. The
company also has extensive environmental interaction with national bodies
and local communities on the best methods of enhancing and protecting
significant natural assets, especially moorlands, water catchment and reservoir
areas. At the same time it seeks to meet the challenge of affording the
maximum recreational use of these facilities. It is also active in encouraging
tenant farmers to adopt agri-environmental best practice approaches.
In the social spheres we have led developments to supply cool drinking water
to primary schools to deal with the issues of dehydration and acknowledge
issues of improving diet and health. The company also works actively with
Business in the Community focusing on the Right to Read and other schemes
to support local education. These involved up to 25% of our staff working 
on a voluntary basis. There are also active community schemes and
programmes in the US focused on community support, education, deprived
groups and enhanced environmental behaviours.
The board has been further strengthened over the last year. On the non-
executive front the appointment of Christopher Fisher brought significant
banking experience, whilst the continuation of Richard Schmidt, after
retirement as Chief Executive Officer in the US, allowed for maximum
continuity and an easy transition in management. The requirements 
of the revised combined code have also meant a higher proportion of non-
executives, to avoid too much duplication in the membership of committees.
On the executive side the new Finance Director, Martin Towers, appointed 
in March 2003 has settled in well and formed a strong team with your 
Chief Executive, Kevin Whiteman, who has produced his first full year results
following his appointment to that post in September 2002. The board
conducted its first full formal evaluation process in the year and will 
continue to review its own and the company's effectiveness.
The immediate outlook for 2004/05 is reasonably predictable and
improvement is expected. The year however will be dominated by the
publication of the first draft response by the regulator as part of the price
determination process. This will largely determine the UK water industry 
and Kelda prospects for the period 2005/10. To date that process has been
transparent and there has been clear identification of the investment needs
required to support environmental improvements. This investment 
remains significant.
In an incentive based regulatory regime we are well placed due to our
excellent service and operational records. The macro factors support an
increasing rate regime and the importance of sound and sustainable low 
risk capital structures to keep borrowing costs to a minimum. All this is known
to regulator, government, industry and to capital providers, shareholders 
and lenders. It is not expected, and would be a major disappointment and
damaging to the prospects of the industry, if a more arbitrary price
approach were now to be applied.
Generally the industry has been very successful in meeting service, drinking
water quality, waste water, river quality and other environmental standards. 
It has required and will continue to require the confidence and support 
of capital providers. It is fundamentally an efficient provider of relatively 
low cost, high consumer value, essential water and environmental services.
We expect the future of the industry to be maintained if not encouraged 
in the next determination.
The process of transforming Kelda has been an interesting and exciting
programme which could not have been carried through without the active
support of the board and management. Equally importantly the programme
has gained the support of employees and their representatives at all levels,
despite some difficult issues having had to be addressed. There will
undoubtedly be future challenges ahead, but this report is an opportunity 
to thank all employees on behalf of the shareholders for the progress the
company has achieved to date.
JOHN NAPIER  Chairman  Kelda Group plc