 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 4
The current and expected results depend 
upon commitment, excellence and hard work. 
We continue to set ourselves demanding 
standards of performance.
In this second year of the 2005 - 2010 
price determination, I am pleased to report 
continuing progress in our core UK water 
and waste water operations and the 
completion of the sale of our US regulated 
water interests now fi nalised following 
receipt of the required US regulatory 
approvals. We have also already given 
notice of our intent to improve our balance 
sheet and capital effi ciency by making a 
related return of approximately  750m to 
shareholders by means of what is known as 
a B share scheme. These actions are 
consistent with our policy of focus on water 
and waste water operations where we can 
maximise our leverage and expertise to 
reduce costs, achieve regulatory out-
performance and improve service standards 
and regulatory compliance. This focus 
benefi ts our customers in the long run as 
regulatory out-performance reduces prices 
into the future and capital effi ciency is 
necessary to meet regulatory and 
shareholder expectations.
The performance of Yorkshire Water (YW) 
continued to progress strongly. YW was recognised 
as the most effi cient water and sewerage company 
in the UK. When service and overall compliance is 
taken into account it maintained its top 2 ranking 
in Ofwat's Overall Performance Assessment 
(OPA) which compares the performance of water 
companies. The results included a reduction in 
pollution incidents and a 100% compliance of 
waste water installations. There was also a best 
ever performance on bathing beach standards and 
our leakage reduction targets were met in full.
The success of YW refl ects not only the continuing 
efforts of everyone at Kelda as part of our 
commitment to being the  best in class' but our 
focus on technology and better ways of working 
involving our major contract partners. We continue 
to develop applications to minimise disruption to 
customers when there are interruptions to supply 
and have increased the electronic monitoring of 
underground assets seeking to anticipate rather 
than just react to service breakdowns. In particular 
I would like to report on the technology success in 
our Loop customer service operation of a complete 
replacement of our computer-based billing systems 
which was achieved over a three year period with 
no loss of continuity of service or disruption.
The advances we have made help us to develop and 
expand our third party contract services business 
KWS, which has benefi ted from the full year effect 
of earlier contract wins. We are on plan with the 
building in Northern Ireland of 4 water treatment 
plants. The KWS business now has revenues of 
 123m per annum and has grown organically to 
this level from a standing start over the last 5 years. 
The smaller operations of Loop and KeyLand 
also performed well.
The completion of our sale of our US regulated 
water operations took longer than anticipated but 
was announced as completed following regulatory 
approvals on 1 May 2007. This sale in the US has 
provided an opportunity to intensify our focus 
strategy and address issues of balance sheet 
efficiency. The sustainable optimum cost of capital 
is achieved by having gearing levels close to the 
upper range of regulatory borrowing assumptions 
in the price determination. This will be achieved by 
Chairman's statement
John Napier
Chairman, Kelda Group plc Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
making a capital return to shareholders of  750m, 
utilising a combination of the net sale proceeds of 
Aquarion and increases in our long term debt. We 
also took the opportunity to reduce our pension 
deficit by making a one time  50m contribution. 
This will be an addition to the contribution 
agreed under the regulatory determination. The 
mechanics of the return of capital to shareholders 
may seem complex to some shareholders for which 
I apologise. The use of a B share approach is 
commonly used because it offers choice to 
shareholders.
The fi nancial performance for the year was 
strong in the continuing operations with profi t 
after tax up 8.1%. The principal contributor was 
YW which benefi ted from a regulatory price 
increase. It did however incur a very signifi cant 
increase in energy costs which was mitigated by 
further increases in effi ciency and reductions in 
cost in other areas. YW continued to out-perform 
the regulatory targets and given this second 
year result we plan to achieve a 7.5% capital 
expenditure out-performance over the 5 year 
regulatory period ending in 2010. We also 
invested  362.7m in the year in upgrading 
our clean and waste water assets. 
The achievement of a 12.4% improvement in 
earnings per share on continuing operations linked 
to further sustainable progress in our performance 
has allowed the board to recommend a fi nal 
dividend of 23.0p per share. This will make the 
full year dividend 32.25p, an increase of 6.3%, 
which is within the regulatory framework that 
allows a 2% growth in real terms.
On other important matters our commitment 
to excellence, effi ciency and service is also 
matched by our focus on wider environment 
and community support opportunities. We 
continue to take the lead in encouraging our 
own and contract partner staff in community 
volunteering. We regularly review and maintain a 
balance between public access, conservation and 
security of our moorland water catchment areas 
optimising opportunities for access and leisure. 
We have completed the drinking water initiative 
in primary schools,  Cool Schools', and are now 
developing a series of healthy eating and energy 
and environmental awareness initiatives which we 
hope to roll out in the coming year. Our range of 
community actions together with improvements 
in our customer service standards has raised 
our standing to platinum status in the Sunday 
Times  Top 100 Companies that Count' based 
upon Business in the Community's Corporate 
Responsibility Index.
There was further external recognition of our 
achievements when our Chief Executive Kevin 
Whiteman was named Business Leader of the Year 
at the National Business Awards. We also gained an 
unprecedented third consecutive award as Utility 
Company of the Year. Kevin would be the fi rst to 
acknowledge that these achievements depend 
on the commitment and support of everyone 
in the company and our contract partners. On 
behalf of our shareholders the board would like 
to congratulate everyone for this magnifi cent 
achievement and thank them for their 
continuing commitment and support. 
On board matters generally, following the 
completion of the US sale, Rich Schmidt our US 
based Non-executive director, will be retiring from 
the board at the AGM. The board would like to 
thank Rich for his services to the company. 
The audit committee and the board also 
undertook a review of auditors which resulted in 
PricewaterhouseCoopers being recommended for 
appointment as auditors with effect from the year 
ending 31 March 2008. I would like to thank the 
outgoing auditors Ernst & Young for their support 
and contribution made to the company in their 
11 years as auditor to the group.
In summary, a strong second year result with 
a good all-round performance in all areas of 
effi ciency, service, regulatory compliance and 
out-performance which we are confi dent that 
we can sustain. We are on plan to execute our 
capital investment programme of  1.6bn over 
the regulatory period. We also look forward to 
further growth in our KWS third party contracting 
business. The current and expected results depend 
upon commitment, excellence and hard work. 
We continue to set ourselves demanding 
standards of performance.
 
SSSIs recovery on track
Yorkshire Water has made significant 
progress in preventing the deterioration 
of countryside designated as SSSI (Sites 
of Special Scientific Interest) across the 
Pennines. The Government has set a Public 
Service Agreement (PSA) target for the 
next three years of ensuring 95% of all 
SSSIs are in either a favourable or recovering 
condition as judged by Natural England's 
conservation officers.
Research by Natural England's predecessor, 
English Nature, suggested Yorkshire Water
had significant improvements to make as 
the company owns large areas of moorland 
damaged by 200 years of air pollution 
and post-war agricultural policies that 
encouraged the drainage of land to create 
grazing for sheep and heather burning to 
improve grouse shooting.
After working in partnership with Natural 
England, Moors For the Future and Pennine 
Prospects Ltd, Yorkshire Water's SSSIs are on 
the road to recovery with 36% now meeting 
the PSA target - an improvement of 27% 
against a national figure of 18.5%.
As biodiversity improves within these 
special habitats, it is hoped that the 
enhanced environment will encourage 
more people to visit the countryside in a 
responsible manner, further contributing 
to other Government aims to encourage 
people to live a healthier lifestyle.