 Delivering on o Ur Co MMit Ments For the long ter M
start	next	month	on	the	construction	of	the	
mine,	beneficiation	plant	and	tailings	dam,		
with	an	expected	start-up	date	for	the	
operation	during	the	second	half	of	2013.
Traditionally,	across	the	mining	industry,	
project	delivery	has	often	proved	to	be	
challenging	both	in	regard	to	timing	and	
meeting	cost	targets.	At	Anglo	American,		
we	have	adopted	a	single,	integrated	Group	
project	management	system,	including	a	
risk-based	method	of	capital	approval		
for	new	projects.	It	has	now	been	fully	
implemented	as	part	of	the	successful	
corporate	re-organisation	and	is	bringing	
much	more	rigour	to	the	process.
oU r people I	have	now	visited	all	our	business	units		
and	major	projects,	and	I	am	not	only	deeply	
impressed	by	the	commitment	of	our	people,	
wherever	they	happen	to	work,	but	by	their	
dedication	and	professionalism	in	living	out	
Anglo	American's	values.
This	was	brought	home	to	me	on	a	recent	visit	
to	the	disastrous	flood	areas	in	Queensland.	
Management	and	employees	at	Metallurgical	
Coal	carried	out	heroic	acts	in	transferring	an	
entire	township	threatened	with	exceptional	
flooding	to	our	own	temporary	housing	
facilities.	It	was	evident,	too,	in	the	outstanding	
response	of	our	Copper	business	to	the	
Chilean	earthquake	in	February	2010.	Not	
only	did	we	provide	$10	million	towards	
reconstruction,	but	our	teams	also	got	
involved	in	a	very	hands-on	way	by	clearing	
debris	and	constructing	six	new	schools		
within	weeks.	The	Board	is	immensely	proud	
of	these	efforts.
With	regard	to	our	people's	career	aspirations,	
the	Board	is	taking	a	keen	interest	in	the	
modern	approach	that	management	has	
devised	to	progress	the	development	of	our	
employees	at	all	levels	throughout	the	Group.	
In	this	respect,	I	would	particularly	like	to	
mention	our	new	generation	of	managers	
heading	our	business	units,	who,	importantly,	
are	today	based	in	the	regions	of	their	core	
operations	rather	than	at	our	London	
headquarters.	Their	being	able	to	work	that	
much	more	closely	with	our	exploration,	
mining	and	engineering	people	is	making		
a	considerable	difference	to	running	a	truly	
efficient	mining	business.
p er For Man Ce an D strategy In	2010,	your	company	experienced	a	strong	
revival	on	the	back	of	steadily	rising	demand	
and	higher	prices	for	all	of	the	commodities		
in	our	diversified	mining	portfolio,	though		
the	strength	of	local	currencies	somewhat	
dampened	our	overall	financial	performance.
Our	clear	strategy	of	focusing	on	seven	key	
commodities,	driving	cost	reductions,	safe	
operations	and	pursuing	leading	industry	
performance	is	being	implemented	
successfully,	with	all	our	businesses	moving	
down	their	respective	industry	cost	curves.	
This	was	borne	out	by	a	strong	set	of	operating	
results.	Group	operating	profit	increased	
sharply	to	$9.8	billion,	against	$5	billion	in	
2009,	while	cash	flow	generation	from	
operations	improved	from	$4.1	billion	to	
$7.7 billion.	
At	the	same	time,	rigorous	cost	control		
was	applied	across	the	business,	with	the	
benefits	delivered	by	our	asset	optimisation	
and	procurement	initiatives	exceeding	target.		
This	strong	performance,	together	with	
excellent	progress	in	our	orderly	disposal	
programme,	contributed	to	a	significant	
improvement	in	our	balance	sheet	position,	
with	net	debt	reduced	to	$7.4	billion.	
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
T o	read	Sir	John's	biography		
turn to page 88
Divi Den D
It	is	pleasing	to	report	that	we	were	able	to	
restore	the	dividend	at	the	half	year	stage.		
The	Board	believes	it	is	prudent	to	provide	
shareholders	with	a	dividend	that	they	can	rely	
on	through	the	cycles.	Against	this	background,	
the	Board	has	proposed	a	final	dividend	of	40	
cents	per	share,	thereby	establishing	our	new	
base	annual	dividend	per	share	at	65	cents.	
Taking	into	account	the	Group's	substantial	
investment	programme	for	future	growth,		
its	future	earnings	potential	and	the	continuing	
need	for	a	robust	balance	sheet,	any	surplus	
cash	will	be	returned	to	shareholders.	
g rowth prospe Cts The	Group's	pipeline	of	projects	spans	its		
core	commodities	and	is	expected	to	grow		
our	production	by	some	50%	by	2015.	In		
total,	we	have	$70 billion	of	projects,	which	
have	the	potential	to	double	the	production		
of	the	Group	over	the	next	decade	or	so.
Our	largest,	the	world-class	Minas-Rio		
iron	ore	project	in	Brazil,	has	been	largely	
de-risked	by	the	receipt	of	the	mining	permit	
and	approval	of	the	primary	installation	
licence,	as	well	as	the	securing	of	a	long	term	
port	tariff	agreement.	We	now	have	the	key	
licences	and	permits	in	place	to	enable	us	to	
06 Anglo American plc		  		 Annual	 Report	 2010
OVERVIEW: Chairman's statement s a Fety The	 year	 was	 marked	 by	 yet	 another	 major	
improvement	 in	 our	 safety	 performance,	 with	 	
a	 significant	 reduction	 in	 both	 the	 number	 of	
people	 who	 died	 and	 were	 injured	 on	 company	
business.	 Over	 the	 past	 four	 years,	 under	
Cynthia	 Carroll's	 leadership,	 the	 number	 	
of	 people	 who	 have	 died	 in	 accidents	 at	 	
our	 operations	 has	 reduced	 by	 more	 than	
two-thirds.	 With	 such	 improvements,	 year	 on	
year,	 our	 ultimate	 aim	 of	 zero	 harm	 is	 not	 just	
attainable,	 but	 is	 now	 being	 seen	 to	 be	 so.	 All	 of	
us	 need	 to	 remain	 very	 committed	 to	 this	 goal.
sU staina Ble Develop Ment 
We	continue	to	focus	on	enhancing	the	
positive	impacts	of	Anglo	American's	
operations	on	our	host	communities,	and		
on	preventing	or	reducing	negative	effects		
in	line	with	our	commitment	to	being	the	
partner	of	choice	for	host	governments		
and	communities.	
In	2010	we	continued	the	implementation		
of	our	new,	more	demanding	social-
performance	and	environmental	standards	
through	the	Anglo	American	Social	Way	and	
the	Anglo	American	Environment	Way.	I	am	
pleased	to	report	that	compliance	with	the	
new	standards	improved	when	compared		
with	2009.	During	201 1	our	objective	is	to	
eliminate	all	non-compliances.	
Focus	areas	in	2010	included	launching		
a	major	Group-wide	project	which	aims		
to	facilitate	greater	local	procurement	by		
our	operations.	We	firmly	believe	that	our	
procurement	budget	of	over	$10	billion	
represents	our	most	important	opportunity		
to	further	develop	local	communities.		
During	the	year	we	also	brought	a	much	
greater	focus	to	measuring	our	social	
performance	in	a	more	rigorous	manner.		
We	have	developed	a	standardised	suite		
of	output	key	performance	indicators	(KPIs)	
for	our	social	investment	programmes	that		
will	be	used	across	all	of	our	operations	and	
company-sponsored	foundations.	The	first	
report	produced	by	the	new	KPIs	will	be	
presented	in	our	2010	Sustainable	
Development	Report.	
We	are	also	re-doubling	our	efforts	on	
environmental	issues,	focusing	on	new	
technologies	to	address	the	twin	challenges		
of	water	scarcity	and	climate	change	-	global	
priorities	in	relation	to	which	South	Africa	will	
be	the	centre	of	world	attention	as	we	prepare	
for	the	COP	17	conference	in	Durban	later		
this	year.	
As	a	major	coal	producer	and	consumer		
of	energy,	we	remain	committed	to	reducing		
our	carbon	emissions	-	focusing	not	only		
on	carbon	capture	and	storage,	but	also	on	
new	technologies	such	as	algae	which	can		
be	used	to	produce	sustainable	fuels.	We	are		
also	closely	involved	in	research	to	study		
the	role	of	PGMs	in	a	cleaner	energy	mix,	
especially	in	fuel-cell	technologies.	In	addition,	
Anglo American	continues	to	play	a	leading	
role	in	policy	development	around	biodiversity	
and	reducing	deforestation.
oU tlook Looking	ahead,	the	global	economic	outlook	
remains	positive.	Continuing	industrialisation	
and	urbanisation	in	China,	India	and	other	
emerging	economies	underpins	growth	in	
commodity	demand	with	good	prospects	of		
a	sustainable	expansion	in	the	medium	and	
longer	term.	In	the	advanced	economies,	
however,	the	recovery	faces	some	stiff	
headwinds.	In	Europe,	many	governments	
have	announced	austerity	packages,	which	
may	weaken	economic	growth	in	201 1.	But		
in	the	US,	additional	monetary	and	fiscal	
stimulus	should	have	the	effect	of	supporting	
greater	economic	activity.	
the Boar D
Quality	leadership	is	critical	to	the	success		
of	any	organisation	-	and	it	is	critically	
important	in	the	boardroom.	This	is	the	place	
where	we	take	ownership	of	the	company's	
strategy,	and	where	that	strategy	is	debated	
and	stress-tested.	It	is	also	the	forum	that	
creates	the	drumbeat	for	our	values,	and	
empowers	management	to	execute	the	
strategy,	and	be	accountable	for	its	delivery.	
We	aim	to	have	a	quality	Board	with	a	culture	
of	transparency	that	encourages	internal	
debate.	In	this	vein	we	have	defined	the		
skills	and	experience	for	the	non-executive	
directors	we	plan	to	recruit	over	the	next		
few	years.	We	also	aim	to	increase	our	
percentage	of	women	on	the	Board	(excluding	
the	chairman)	from	today's	20%	to	c.30%	by	
end	2012.	
I	wish,	therefore,	to	acknowledge	and		
thank	the	Board	team	and	its	newer		
members,	who	collectively	are	making	a	
significant	contribution	to	our	Board	debates,	
while	also	serving	on	the	Board's	vitally	
important	committees.	
But	it	is	to	our	longest-standing	member		
that	I	especially	want	to	pay	tribute.	Nicky	
Oppenheimer	has	notified	the	Board	of	his	
wish	to	retire	as	a	non-executive	director,	at	
the	forthcoming	AGM,	after	43	years	with	the	
Anglo	American	Group.	
Anglo American's	origins	in	South	Africa		
more	than	90	years	ago	lay	in	the	hands	of	
Nicky's	grandfather	and	that	legacy	lives	on.	
Sir	Ernest's	commitment	that	Anglo	American	
should	make	a	positive	and	sustainable	
difference	to	the	communities	around	its	
mining	operations	remains	deeply	embedded	
in	the	way	we	do	business.	
On	behalf	of	the	Board,	I	would	like	to		
express	our	thanks	to	Nicky	for	his	significant	
contribution	to	Anglo	American	over	so	many	
years.	We	will	miss	Nicky's	wise	counsel,	
sound	business	sense	and	integrity.	We	wish	
him	well	and	look	forward	to	a	continued	
strong	relationship	through	our	respective	
interests	in	De	Beers.	
Finally,	 I	 wish	 to	 pay	 tribute	 to	 the	 management	
team	we	have	in	place	at	Anglo	American,	and	
to	all	of	our	employees,	who	have	responded	
so	willingly	and	ably	to	the	challenges	of	a	
demanding	and	successful	year.
Sir John Parker
Chairman
07 Anglo American plc		  		 Annual	 Report	 2010
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information