 2 Kiotech International plc Annual Report 2005
Chairman and Executive director's statement
Introduction
We are pleased to report that the year to 31 December 2005
has seen Kiotech make continued progress with encouraging
results from early stage aquaculture trials. Its innovative
biotechnology products are currently being supplied to the
sports fishing industries worldwide and the technology is
being further developed to suit the much larger aquaculture
and commercial markets.
In June 2005 Kiotech moved up from Ofex to AIM, a market
operated by the London Stock Exchange. At that time we
raised  1.82 million net of expenses through the placing of
31.657 million new ordinary shares at seven pence each
principally with financial institutions. The AIM quotation
reflected the board's confidence in the progress Kiotech had
made in its development programme coupled with the belief
that the time was now right to move to a larger exchange,
which would offer the company enhanced investor and
commercial visibility. The proceeds of the placing enable the
company to continue its research and development
programme while also meeting general working capital
needs.
Results
The loss for the year was broadly in line with expectations. In
the short term Kiotech will continue to generate net losses,
mainly due to the planned ongoing research and development
expenditure attributable to its aquaculture products.
Sales of Ultrabite for the year were lower than originally
planned due to the decision taken by the board to change our
distribution arrangements midway through the year by
granting Rapala VMC Corporation an exclusive worldwide
distribution contract for the sports fishing market. Whilst this
will be most beneficial in the future, there was inevitably
some disruption to sales as the handover took place. All sales
are currently attributable to Ultrabite, which is making a
profitable contribution.
Administration costs for the first half of the year were high, as
reported in the Interim Statement. Firm action has since been
taken with the closure of the company's office and the
decision to appoint Lawrence plc to handle all administration
on a subcontract basis. This is already delivering
considerable cost savings and allows us to redirect
additional cash towards product development. Kiotech
currently has a cash burn rate (excluding research and
development costs) of approximately  300,000 per annum and
at the end of May 2006 had cash reserves of approximately
 1.6 million.
CEFAS
Kiotech works in partnership with the UK Government
Agency CEFAS (The Centre for Environment, Fisheries &
Aquaculture Science) to develop and market innovative
pheromone technology to the global sports fishing and
aquaculture markets. The agreement with CEFAS, which
commenced in October 2002, gives Kiotech an exclusive
global license to commercially exploit the results of CEFAS'
research into certain formulations that influence fish
behaviour. 
Sports Fishing
Ultrabite, launched in 2001, is a pheromone based fishing
product and is aimed at the global sports and leisure market.
Angling is a huge industry; it is estimated that in the UK alone
there are over 3.5 million participants. In order to maximize
the sales potential of Ultrabite, in September we were
delighted to appoint Rapala VMC Corporation as Kiotech's
exclusive worldwide distributor of Ultrabite to the sports
fishing market. Rapala, which has its headquarters in Finland,
is the leading distributor of sports fishing related products
with a global network and is an ideal partner. Kiotech's Chief
Executive, John Loftus, left our board and joined Rapala with
responsibility for marketing Ultrabite. John's experience and
specialist product knowledge should help to accelerate the
sales opportunity for Ultrabite through Rapala's well-
established global distribution network.
It is premature to assess the progress of Rapala's sales
campaign but we are confident that the inclusion of Ultrabite
in Rapala's next catalogue should lead to a significant uplift in
sales of Ultrabite.
Strategy   Aquaculture
Worldwide demand for seafood and fish products is
increasing. United Nations projections show that there will
be world demand for a further 90 million metric tonnes
per annum of edible seafood by 2040; this would require a
doubling of the current supply of edible fish and shellfish.
Statistics indicate that currently 25 per cent of wild fish
stocks are over harvested and another 30 to 40 per cent are
fully exploited. Kiotech believes that additional demand can
only be satisfied through increased aquaculture. 
Kiotech and CEFAS have created a research and marketing
strategy to further develop the pheromone technology to
permit more sustainable forms of feed to be utilized
throughout the aquaculture industry and to reduce the
production of feed waste so helping to conserve wild fish
populations and the aquatic environment.
It is from this research that the basis of a new range of
pheromone stimulants is being developed for the aquaculture
market. The cod trials completed last year in Norway and
reported in our interim statement dated 30 September 2005
gave further support to our belief in this technology. We are
now focusing on other species where we believe there to be
greater commercial potential. The trials that were taking
place at Mahidol University in Thailand with regard to tilapia
and prawns were concluded earlier this year. The tilapia trials
indicated an approximate 10 per cent increase in growth
rates where pheromone-based attractants were used. While
this was not itself considered statistically significant, visual
observations were sufficiently encouraging for Kiotech to set
up commercial scale pond trials. Similar trials are being Kiotech International plc Annual Report 2005 3
undertaken with regard to carp where we believe product
development is most advanced among all the species we are
testing. The prawn trials in Thailand were less conclusive;
however, we believe that pond conditions are more suitable
for prawn and shrimp development and intend to start larger
scale pond trials later this year. Currently, small scale tank
trials are being carried out with ornamental koi and catfish.
Should these trials be successful, larger scale trials will be
undertaken in respect of these two species. We are
encouraged by the technology and progress being made by
our partnership with CEFAS and will report our progress as
the various trials are completed.
It is too early to be precise regarding the commercial viability
of these products but it is possible that marketing could
commence within the next two years. 
The development of pheromone based technology has two
principal objectives: 
In the short term the application of pheromone
formulations will attempt to increase the feeding activity
of farmed fish and therefore the uptake of existing fish-
based feeds within the aquaculture industry with the aim
of reducing the amount of waste from uneaten feed, which
results in significant environmental damage. 
In the longer term the pheromone-based technology will
aim to permit the use of more sustainable forms of
proteins within feeds, which are not based on fish oils or
proteins which it is intended to protect wild fish
populations from further depletion to satisfy the increased
demands expected from the aquaculture sector.
The aquaculture industry is estimated to be worth in the
region of $60 billion and has had an average annual
compound growth of close to nine per cent since 1970.
Currently aquaculture accounts for 30 per cent of fin fish,
crustacean and shellfish supplied to the market and this is set
to rise to 50 per cent by 2030. There is a brake on this
accelerating growth as a large proportion of the make-up of
the feed for farmed fish is fish oil and meal derived from wild
fish stocks. The supply of this raw material is unsustainable
and the industry is focused upon providing feed stimuli that
will mask the taste of terrestrial crop-based feeds and make
them palatable to marine fin fish. Kiotech's novel product
range is being developed with CEFAS to fill this void in the
industry's product range.
Management
Richard Rose joined the board as a non-executive director in
March 2005, just prior to the flotation on AIM. In August the
board was strengthened further with the appointment of
Peter Lawrence as a non-executive director. Peter is
Chairman of Lawrence plc, a company with experience in the
fish and aquaculture markets. In February 2006, Richard Rose
was appointed non-executive Chairman of the company
succeeding Nicholas Scott who assumed the position of
executive director with responsibility for business
development. 
Following John Loftus's move to Rapala, Nicholas Scott is
Kiotech's sole executive director. Nicholas is a founder of
Kiotech.
Outlook
Rapala is committing considerable resource to marketing the
Ultrabite product and we are confident that once its network
has full access to the products during the latter part of 2006
we should see the benefit in sales.
The exciting potential of our technology will be in the
commercial and aquaculture markets and we are
encouraged by the results of early stage trials being
conducted under the management and supervision of CEFAS.
Whilst much work remains to be done we, together with
CEFAS, are confident of the long-term commercial value of
the technology.
Richard Rose Nicholas Scott
Chairman Executive Director
1 June 2006