 Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's Review
...We are enjoying a good start to the 
current year and have great confidence 
in LA Fitness' prospects for this year and
beyond as we continue to develop. We
consider that with our proven business
model, defined market position and highly
regarded management team, we will
achieve our future growth potential...
LA Fitness plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 6 6 We are pleased to present the Group's
results for the year ended 31 July 2004.
The good progress reported in our interim
statement continued throughout the
second half of the financial year and we
have achieved record turnover  and profits.
Results
Turnover for the year grew by 20% 
to  79.6m (2003:  66.3m). Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation (EBITDA) increased by 15%
to  19.2m (before exceptional items)
compared to  16.7m in the year ended 
31 July 2003 and operating profits before
exceptional items increased by 18% to
 12.3m (2003:  10.4m). Profit before tax
and exceptional items increased by 27%
to  9.1m (2003:  7.2m). 
Before exceptional items, basic earnings
per share increased by 9% to 14.9p 
(2003: 13.7p). After exceptional items,
basic earnings per share increased to
13.0p (2003: 5.6p).
Of our estate of 67 clubs, 49 clubs were
open throughout the last two years. Like-
for-like sales from these more mature clubs
increased by 4%. We continue to work
hard to seek and develop opportunities 
for increasing ancillary income from all 
our clubs, in areas such as private training,
merchandising and advertising. For the
year ended 31 July 2004, income arising
from sources other than membership
subscriptions and joining fees grew 
by 11% and represented 10.2% of 
total income.
One of the original non-swimming pool
clubs was sold during the year, and
negotiations for the disposal of another
such club are advanced. During the year
we completed the sale and leaseback of
our remaining two freehold and long
leasehold premises.
Net debt at 31 July 2004 was  48.6m 
(July 2003:  52.9m), of which  42.7m
was net bank debt and the remainder
obligations under finance leases. 
The reduction in debt over the last 12
months underlines the cash generative
nature of the business, with operating 
cash inflow in the 12 months amounting
to  20.2m. Bank facility headroom and
covenants have improved in line with
this debt reduction.
Operations
During the year we opened 4 new clubs.
At the year end, the Group traded from 
67 clubs, 65 of which are in the United
Kingdom, 1 in Spain and 1 in Eire. The
strength of the Group's brand and the
quality of our offering enabled us to
continue to benefit from our successful
strategy of recruiting new members prior
to a club opening, providing a solid
platform for the speedy achievement 
of membership capacity.
Club margins stabilised in the year at
22.9% (2003: 22.6%) generating a gross
profit of  18.2m. Central costs increased
by  1.3m to  5.9m reflecting an
additional investment in senior
management, having created during 
the year the new positions of directors 
of sales and human resources as well as
three divisional directors. The results also
incorporate higher bonus and incentive
payments to staff at all levels on the
achievement of these record results.
Membership across the Group has
continued to expand at an encouraging
pace. At 31 July 2004, the Group had
200,470 members at the 67 clubs open,
compared with 165,320 at 31 July 2003,
an increase of 21% in the last 12 months.
The 4 clubs that opened during the last 12
months have achieved highly satisfactory
membership growth, averaging
approximately 1,850 members per club at
the year end. Member retention continues
to be a key element contributing to the
success of our business and retention 
levels remain in line with our expectations.
More than 80% of new members opt for
an annual membership agreement and the
majority of these members join as a direct
result of recommendations from existing
members, a positive reflection of the
quality of customer service and facilities 
to which we aspire.
During the second half of the year, 
we invested in a new membership
management system which has been
successfully implemented throughout our
estate. This system provides all our clubs
and central support functions with access 
to real-time financial and membership data. 
In addition, we are now able to track and
report on a significant range of member
activities, as a result of which we will be
better placed to identify our members'
needs and benefit from additional revenue
opportunities. The business has already
begun to experience some of the benefits
from the implementation of this system,
and these are expected to grow over time.
Exceptional Charges
As we have previously reported, a VAT
planning scheme that operated during
1998 and 1999 was challenged by HM
Customs and Excise several years ago. 
The VAT tribunal issued their ruling after
the year end having found in favour of HM
Customs and Excise. The precise amount
of VAT payable by the Group, together
with associated costs and interest, is still to
be determined, although it is estimated to
be  1.76m. This exceeds the provision
that had been previously provided by
 939,000 although, excluding costs, is
within the range referred to in last year's
report and accounts. Accordingly, an
exceptional charge has been taken to 
the profit and loss account.
Taxation
A full provision has been made for
deferred taxation as required by FRS 19.
The tax rate on profits before exceptional
charges amounts to 32.5% (2003: 21.6%)
of which the cash tax rate payable rate 
is 8%.
Dividend
The Board recommends a 30% increase 
in the final dividend to 1.3p per ordinary
share (2003: 1.0p) payable on 3
December 2004 to shareholders on the
register on 5 November 2004. The total
dividends for the year (paid and proposed)
amount to 1.83p per ordinary share, an
increase of 27% over the previous year.
The increased dividend reflects the Board's
confidence in the strength and prospects
of the Group.
LA Fitness plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 LA Fitness plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 8
...We have identified a pipeline of
excellent potential new sites and 
our strong operational cash flows
enable us to continue to open new
clubs without further drawing down
on the significant banking facilities
available to us... Chairman's and 
Chief Executive's Review 
continued
Expansion
We have currently committed to two 
new club openings this year, one of 
which is currently under construction.
Commitments to open a further two sites
will be entered into shortly. In addition, a
number of further prime site opportunities
are at various stages of negotiations. The
pipeline of prospective sites remains strong
and this has enabled us to further tighten
our site selection and feasibility criteria
before commitment. We can comfortably
open between 6 and 8 clubs each year
from operating cash flow and have
significant additional bank facilities
available to us should we wish to accelerate
this opening programme further.
The health of the nation
Obesity is now one of the leading killers in
the UK with 60% of the adult population
overweight, of which over one third are
clinically obese. The cost to the country of
this epidemic is escalating rapidly. As a
consequence, the drive by both the
Government and the media to get people
to focus on prevention through exercise is
helping the recruitment and retention of
members at our clubs and we expect this
to increase. As main board members of
the Fitness Industry Association, we
continue to work hard to lobby the
Government for tax and VAT incentives on
gym membership for those companies
and organisations prepared to take
ownership of the health and well-being of
their staff. We are also proactive in driving
the preventative message via our  adopt a
school',  adopt a teacher' and research
and awareness projects. 
We will shortly launch a trial stand-alone
weight loss centre adjacent to our club in
Bedford. This centre will provide classes
and weight management courses for those
people who are concerned about their
well-being but may nevertheless be
reluctant to join a health and fitness club. 
If the trial proves successful, this concept
has the capability of being rolled-out
throughout the UK. 
Board Changes
We announced on 14 September 2004
that in light of recent developments in
corporate governance best practice and in
the interest of effective management of
the Company during its next stage of
development, the Board was changing its
structure. Accordingly, it was decided to
change the balance of Executive and Non-
Executive Directors on the Main Board and
to strengthen the Operating Board which
supports and reports to the Main Board. 
David Turner, who earlier this year
assumed the role of part-time Strategic
Development Director having previously
held the position of full-time Property
Director, now wishes to take a less active
role in management. David has agreed 
to remain on the Main Board as a 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 
1 November 2004. Jeremy Taylor,
previously Operations Director, stepped
down from the Main Board of the
Company on 30 September but retained
his position on the Operating Board.
These changes will result in the Main
Board of the Company having two
executive directors, Fred Turok (Chief
Executive Officer) and Richard Taylor
(Finance Director), and four non-executive
directors. The Operating Board will now
comprise the Chief Executive Officer, the
Finance Director and the Directors of
Operations, Commercial Development
and Human Resources.
People
On behalf of the Board, we again
acknowledge the commitment, hard work
and loyalty of our staff and their great
contribution to the business. 
Our recruitment process and high quality
induction and training programmes are a
key feature of the LA Fitness culture and
are vital ingredients in our service to our
members. We enjoy a high retention rate
of senior staff members which is a
reflection of the quality of our working
environment.
Health and Fitness Sector
The key players in the Health and Fitness
sector have been through a period of
ownership change over the last few years
and are now predominantly in the hands
of venture capital funds and private
ownership. The success of the LA Fitness
model and strength of its management
team make it likely that we will play a
significant role in the consolidation process
that we believe will occur within this
sector over the next few years. 
Current Trading and Prospects 
We are enjoying a good start to the
current year and have great confidence in
LA Fitness' prospects for this year and
beyond as we continue to develop. We
consider that with our proven business
model, defined market position and highly
regarded management team, we will
achieve our future growth potential. We
have identified a pipeline of excellent
potential new sites and our strong
operational cash flows enable us to
continue to open new clubs without
further drawing down on the significant
banking facilities available to us.
Peter Jacobs Fred Turok
Chairman Chief Executive
13 October 2004
LA Fitness plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9