 04 Landkom International PLC Annual Report 2008
I am pleased to present the Group's second annual report  
on the conclusion of its first full year as a quoted company  
on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange.
Strategy overview
2008 was a year of two very different and unequal parts. 
During the first nine months, we continued to implement the 
original strategy to build the land bank rapidly and plant and 
harvest the first significant hectarage whilst maintaining the 
investment programme. 
The investment has been centred on agriculture and logistics 
equipment, drying and storage facilities, and crop inputs. 
These will enable the Group to carry out its scale farming 
operations into the future. Prior to the arrival of Landkom, 
many of the areas in which we operate had little or no  
useful infrastructure owing to the lack of investment over  
the preceding 20 years.
The long term objective remains unchanged: to become  
a leading oilseed and grain producer, supplying global 
markets. The Group seeks to utilise local land, labour and the 
favourable weather conditions to achieve profitable yields 
using high yield agronomic practices. By returning derelict 
land to production, we create employment, provide tax income 
for local authorities and create strong relationships with local 
communities and regional governments. Our operations are 
environmentally sustainable: all land is historically zoned as 
arable land and our crop rotation plan ensures nutrients in  
the land are replenished for long term use. 
Towards the end of the first harvest, the Board implemented  
a detailed strategic review to develop plans for the next phase 
and also to take account of the rapidly deteriorating market 
conditions and general economic environment. This deterioration 
had significantly reduced agricultural commodity prices, 
agricultural asset values and had a material impact on the 
availability of credit for working capital and trade facilities.
In light of the Group's first full planting and harvesting 
experience and the economic environment, particularly as the 
demand for land was no longer increasing, the Board shifted 
Landkom's strategic focus to concentrate on rationalising the 
land bank, focussing on efficiency in land usage, yield per 
hectare and cost controls to maximise profitability and cash- 
flow. During Q4 2008 and into Q1 2009, the Group has 
realigned the variable cost base to the current size of operations 
matching current market sentiments and opportunities. 
Chairman's statement
Neil Balfour
Chairman 
           
2008                                  
                           ,            
                         '            
                                  
               .
                            
                                 ,   
                                      
                                      .
                                 
                                       , 
                             45,000 
          .
                               
                 ,                 , 
                           12        .
The Group is well set to 
carry out managed growth 
and the team is looking 
forward to implementing  
all the lessons learnt from 
the past 12 months...  Annual Report 2008 Landkom International PLC 05
Resources are now strictly applied to either crops or key 
strategic business projects such as storage and drying 
capability. The Board plans to release capital by divesting  
non core activities through joint venture or sale.
Operational highlights
Despite record rainfall in the harvest season and although  
the winter and spring wheat harvest proved to be very 
disappointing in terms of results and quality, the farming team 
brought in over 45,000 tonnes of grain in extremely difficult 
working conditions. A logistics fleet of over 220 lorries, buses, 
cars and tankers ensured the timely movement of people, 
machinery and grain. An agricultural fleet of 65 western 
tractors and 19 western combines is in place executing the 
farming operations. 
After completion of the harvest and as part of the revised 
strategy outlined above, the Group implemented an in-depth 
analysis of the cost and efficiency of all operations designed 
to focus on certain key areas. One such area is strict 
adherence to input application windows to ensure efficient  
use of all inputs. The new streamlined farming team with  
fewer overseas managers has achieved a year on year 
threefold increase in winter planting, whilst at the same time 
ensuring that all application windows are met.
Preparations for the 2009 harvest are significantly further 
advanced compared to last year with all drying and storage 
contracts concluded and with all outsourced combine  
contracts signed. 
Fundraising 
In March 2008, the Group successfully raised approximately 
$22 million of equity through a placing. Since the year  
end the Group raised an additional $6.8 million through  
the issuance of shares. 
Financial results
Our first full year financial statements show a large net loss 
and significant cash expenditure. This reflects our strategic 
focus in the first part of the year to implement a substantial 
investment programme to ensure the Group gained critical 
mass with infrastructure quickly. It is not representative of how 
the business is expected to perform in the future. The substantial 
cost reductions and strategy refocusing programmes initiated 
in the final months of 2008 have created a much leaner 
Landkom. At this early stage of the Group's development,  
the Board has not recommended the payment of a dividend.
At 31 December 2008, the net cash of the Group was  
$4.2 million.
In order to provide a more accurate and easier to understand 
presentation of the Group's financial performance, the Board 
has decided to change the accounting reference date to  
31 October, a time when the harvest has been completed  
and a substantial part of the winter crop planted. This will 
bring forward the financial reporting of the harvest results. 
The Group has continued constructive dialogue with the tax 
authorities regarding the VAT receivable. This non-recurring 
receivable relates to the spending on the establishment  
of the business. Although funds have yet to be remitted to the 
Group, after an in depth tax inspection, I can report that our 
2008 tax accounts have been signed off and the Group has 
now been moved onto a special agricultural VAT scheme 
which effectively avoids the requirement to claim VAT back in 
the future. We are pleased with the positive relationship which 
now exists with the tax authorities and continue to work with 
them to achieve the return of the receivable.
Board and people
As in any fast growing business there have been a number  
of Board and senior management changes during the course  
of the year. Warwick Smith resigned from the Board and  
his role as Finance Director in September 2008 and was 
succeeded by Stephen Pickup. Stephen has added a new 
dimension to the Board in driving cost cutting and cash 
management. With the reduction of emphasis on land 
acquisition, Konrad Nowicki has moved from Land Director  
to Managing Director Ukraine. The Executive team was 
supplemented in February 2009 with the important addition of 
Ben Adams to the Board as Farming Director. Non-Executive 
Director, David Mackie, resigned in February 2009. 
Over the year, many local Ukrainian farmers and technicians 
have been trained on our advanced western equipment and 
we will see the benefits of this in the future. The results 
achieved by the team at Landkom are outstanding given the 
operating environment in Ukraine, and I would like to thank 
them for their continued efforts on behalf of the Group.
Since the year end, Richard Spinks, the Chief Executive 
Officer, has announced his decision to step down as Chief 
Executive of Landkom following this year's harvest and once  
a suitable replacement has been found. Richard has been the 
driving force behind the development of the business over the 
last few years but as it has matured, he believes that Landkom 
would benefit significantly from having a Chief Executive 
Officer with greater experience of delivering second phase 
corporate growth. This combined with a personal wish to build 
a broader portfolio of interests in Ukraine, has led him to take 
this difficult decision and to hand the business on in due course. 
Current trading and outlook
Despite the current economic environment, the Group has 
already established itself as a very substantial operation with 
high quality infrastructure in one of the world's best regions  
for arable farming. 
The Group continues to reduce its cost base and to bring  
the costs of production down whilst maximising yields. The 
benefits of the new cost structure will become increasingly 
apparent in 2009. In the current volatile environment the 
Group needs to ensure growth is controlled whilst still taking 
advantage of the exciting opportunities that exist in the  
market place. The Group will continue to look at acquisition 
opportunities with complementary businesses but the current 
priority is to focus on the care of the crop in the ground  
and the harvest to generate the cash flow for next year's 
operations. At this stage, it is too early to forecast the planting 
plans for 2009/2010, but the Board currently expects that  
the amount of hectarage to be planted this autumn will  
not be substantially larger than the current levels.
In April 2009, SAC completed its winter crop audit giving a 
positive opinion stating that the crop had emerged from the 
winter in  good condition with good weed control and crop 
health'. Crop damage was lower than last year's already low 
levels of around 3 per cent of crop impacted. This compares 
favourably to industry norms of around 5 per cent. This is  
a testament to the agronomy and farming skills of our 
operational team and demonstrates the quality of both soils 
and climate in our operational area.
The Group is well set to carry out managed growth and the 
team is looking forward to implementing all the lessons learnt 
from the past 12 months and, weather permitting, delivering  
a successful harvest. 
Neil Balfour
Chairman of the Board
26 May 2009