 Latchways plc Latchways plc
This has been an excellent year for Latchways. After the difficulties experienced since the beginning of the financial crisis and 
subsequent recession, we have achieved growth across the range of our products and markets, enabling us to report record 
revenues and profits for the group.
Our success has been built upon providing innovative, technically advanced fall protection solutions to an increasingly global market, 
and backing this with the very best customer service. As the business grows, we are investing in resource at all levels of the business 
to ensure that we can continue to meet the demanding expectations of our diverse customer base.
results
Group revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 was  39.6 million (2010:  33.9 million), a 17% increase on last year.
Group profit before taxation was 22% higher than last year at  9.3 million (2010:  7.6 million).
Diluted earnings per share improved by 24% to 61.07 pence (2010: 49.12 pence). 
Net cash balances at year end were  10.9 million (2010:  7.2 million).
Dividends
The growth of the Latchways business over the past twelve months has resulted in modest increases in working capital requirements. 
Despite this, the business has continued to generate excellent cash flows, resulting in a  3.7 million increase in net cash balances at 
the year end. 
We expect to commence work on an additional production unit at Devizes during the coming year, which will utilise part of the  
cash balance. The appropriate level of ongoing cash retention is under constant review. At this time, the board is recommending  
a 15% increase in the final dividend to 20.66 pence per share (2010: 17.97 pence). Taken together with the interim dividend of  
8.98 pence, the total dividend for the year of 29.64 pence per share represents a 15% increase on last year. This is more than  
twice covered by earnings.
The board remains committed to maintaining a progressive dividend policy whilst ensuring that the group retains sufficient funds  
to make ongoing investment decisions without recourse to banks or shareholders.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 16 September 2011 to shareholders on the 
register as at 19 August 2011.
our t rading environment
The increasing importance of new markets to our business marks the successful outcome of our long term strategy. This recognised 
the need to reduce our exposure to UK construction, which at the time of its inception represented over half of our business. Since 
then, our strategy has been to develop new markets, both within the UK and overseas, reducing the importance of UK construction 
to our operating performance. Our product development and acquisition activities have reflected this, with the emphasis on products 
aimed at overseas, industrial and military markets. This strategy has ensured that, despite the continuing weakness of the UK 
economy, we have been able to weather the economic conditions of the past few years and return to growth far more quickly than 
would otherwise have been possible. Today, overseas markets account for 69% of our total product sales.
We expect the UK construction market to remain flat for at least the coming year, but this will not affect our ability to grow the 
business further.
Outside of the construction market, the UK has performed well. We have achieved significant success with the sealed Self 
Retracting Lifeline, which has now become the industry standard in the offshore wind energy market for access and egress of 
turbines, whilst we have also seen increasing activity in commercial retrofit installations of our horizontal systems.
Our European business has resumed its excellent growth record. Over the past decade, we have grown our European revenues  
by a compound 26% per annum, and we believe there are many more opportunities for further growth in the future.
We have once again seen strong growth in North America, driven by the gathering pace of Self Retracting Lifeline sales, which 
more than tripled in the year. Wingrip has again performed well, particularly with the US military.
We have made significant steps forward in other parts of the world. We have won new customers for our electricity transmission 
tower fall protection systems, and entered new geographical markets such as the Middle East and South America. These have 
taken a number of years to prospect and develop but we are now starting to see the benefits. 
While revenues from the electricity industry can vary from year to year due to maintenance schedules, these are long term 
relationships which should provide significant revenues for years to come.
chairman's Statement
04 Latchways plc Latchways plc
new product Development
New products and innovations are a key aspect in Latchways' development, as can be seen from the success in recent years of 
products such as Wingrip and the Self Retracting Lifeline. Whether developed in house or acquired, we will continue to introduce 
innovative, technically advanced products which both solve our customers' fall protection problems and raise our industry to a  
new level. 
During the past year we have launched the Wingrip All-in-one pad, which combines vacuum unit and pad to provide an easily 
portable, use-anywhere solution for urgent aircraft maintenance where a fixed air supply may not be available. Of particular interest 
to military applications, this product is also attracting the attention of commercial customers. 
In the coming year, we have further innovations planned which we expect, in the fullness of time, to add substantially to revenues.
Innovation has many aspects, not all of which result in headline-grabbing, completely new products such as those described above.  
At Latchways we pride ourselves on being able to resolve any fall protection issue quickly and cost effectively. Where a suitable 
solution does not exist, we will design one. This is of particular importance in industries such as electricity generation and 
transmission, where it is necessary to cater for a myriad of structure designs.
As our markets expand, we are seeing increasing demands for our skills from customers around the world. We are therefore 
increasing our investment in engineering resources to ensure we continue to meet those demands.
recent projects
As our business grows, we see further examples of our systems being selected for the largest and most prestigious projects 
worldwide. In the sporting arena, our systems have been installed extensively on 2012 Olympic projects, and we have been specified 
for the new International Formula One circuit in New Delhi, India. Our success in the offshore wind turbine market is reflected in 
completed installations for the London Array and Sheringham Shoal wind farms, whilst the Wingrip product line has recently been 
adopted by British Airways. 
people
As the business grows, it is vital that we balance the resources available to service our customers with the growing list of needs.  
We have a tremendously loyal and diligent team, and it is our task to ensure that they are provided with the tools and resources 
that they need to respond to the increasing demands that growth brings with it. We are continuing the expansion of our sales team, 
which we started last year, but we are also strengthening support areas across the business such as new product development, 
engineering, quality and procurement. 
We have also taken steps to further strengthen the governance of the group, with the introduction of an additional non executive 
director to the board. I am delighted to welcome Ian Pickering, who joined us in April 2011, and brings with him a wealth of 
experience both as an executive and non executive director of a range of organisations. Ian will take over as audit committee  
chair from Brian Finlayson, who will remain on the board. I would like to thank Brian for the diligence and professionalism  
that he brought to this aspect of his board duties.
During the year, we introduced the Latchways Value Creation Plan, a long term incentive scheme aimed at staff in positions  
most able to directly influence and drive the growth and profitability of the business, with the aim that they can share in the  
success of the business provided that shareholder value creation exceeds a demanding target. The scheme was introduced  
after substantive consultations with our larger investors, for whose input we were most grateful, and received overwhelming  
support from our shareholders. 
On behalf of the board I would once again like to express our thanks and admiration to our staff for a job well done.
current t rading and prospects
The new year has started well with the order book ahead of last year.
With innovative new product launches planned for later in the year, I look forward to reporting further progress. 
paul hearson, chairman
05