 lA tchw Ays plc
I am pleased to report an excellent result for latchways, with a strong second half resulting in record revenues and profits for the year. 
some of the strongest growth was achieved with our more recent product developments and in the newest geographical markets. 
while the underlying economic conditions remain subdued in our traditional markets, we continue to unlock new opportunities for further 
growth and I am excited about our future.
the strength of the second half recovery was very encouraging, with product revenues 34% ahead of the first half and 25% better 
than the same period last year. this included some significant business for w ingrip and our vertical product range, and also a strong 
performance from our self retracting lifeline (srl ) range.
As our product range has expanded, partnerships with key customers have become even more important and the personal rescue 
device (prd ) is a good example of this. In its first year of sales, this product generated over  1.2 million of revenue, and the 
relationships that this product has enabled us to develop provide considerable growth opportunities. In this regard, we have recently 
contracted with our first major harness manufacturer, 3M, to supply this product into the Americas. 
our focus remains on building our team to address the changing global nature of the fall protection market. Although we have already 
made considerable investments, we continue to recruit further resources to drive sales revenues, and to develop innovative new products.
w e are also investing in the physical infrastructure of the business. A  3 million, 2,800 square metre production unit is under 
construction adjacent to our existing facility. this will enable us to consolidate existing facilities as well as provide us with growth 
capacity for years to come. the building is scheduled for completion in the Autumn.
Results
Group revenue for the year ended 31 March 2013 was  42.4 million (2012:  41.4 million), a 2.5% increase on last year. safety 
products revenue was up 7%, whilst the smaller, uK focused safety services division saw revenues fall by 17%.
Group profit before taxation was 10% higher than last year at  10.9 million (2012:  9.9 million), including a  0.7 million exceptional 
credit relating to the latchways v alue creation plan.
Basic earnings per share rose 13% to 74.49 pence (2012: 66.04 pence). Adjusted basic earnings per share (excluding exceptional 
items) rose 6% to 70.32 pence.
net cash balances at year end were  10.5 million (2012:  8.4 million),  2.1 million higher than last year.
Latchways 2010 Value Creation Plan (VCP )
during the period since August 2010, latchways has delivered substantial returns to shareholders, well in excess of the Ftse  
small cap Index, despite the considerable headwinds faced by the business. Actual compound eps growth has been in excess  
of 12.5% per annum, but below the challenging 15% compound eps growth target required for awards to vest.
latchways' remuneration committee plans to consult with shareholders on the effects of this in the coming days.
Dividends
the board remains committed to maintaining a progressive dividend policy whilst ensuring that the group retains sufficient funds to 
make ongoing investments without recourse to banks or shareholders.
cash flow has been strong again during the year. As a result, the board is recommending a 10% increase in the final dividend to 25.00 pence 
per share (2012: 22.73 pence). t aken together with the interim dividend of 11.00 pence, the total regular dividend for the year of 36.00 
pence per share represents a 10% increase on last year (excluding special dividends), and is approximately twice covered by earnings.
subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 13 september 2013 to shareholders on the 
register as at 16 August 2013.
Our Trading Environment
our growth this year has been achieved despite very poor conditions in the uK and european construction sectors. whilst this 
has created significant challenges for our business, it has reinforced our ambition to seek growth opportunities with new products 
and new markets. As a result, the long term prospects for our business are stronger than ever. As and when construction markets 
recover, this will further drive our growth.
despite further contraction in uK construction activity, we have achieved strong growth in the uK through sales of w ingrip and the 
srl range, with the latter gaining further success in the offshore wind industry.
european revenues fell slightly this year, despite successes with the srl and v ertical product lines. this reflects the depth of the 
construction recession within the eurozone, combined with the relative weakness of the euro during the period.
chAIrMAn's st AteMent
04 Latchways pLc our north American business saw some improvement during the year, but remained below the levels seen in 2011. the w ingrip business 
was constrained by us Government spending restrictions, although the potential for this business remains very high. w e are recruiting 
more sales staff to drive our north American revenues, and we have also recently concluded two new agreements with 3M, for distribution 
of both the prd and the srl range. w e are confident of achieving strong growth in the north American market in the coming year.
the rest of the world had another strong year, led by our v ertical product line in Australia and new Zealand, with a number of good 
prospects beginning to firm up in other markets such as south America, the Middle east and the Far east. Although we continue 
to work extensively with agents in these geographies, we are also increasing our internal resources to ensure that the potential for 
these markets is fully exploited.
New Product Development
Innovation remains at the heart of our business. the substantial impact that products such as the srl and w ingrip variants have 
made to our revenues in recent years demonstrate the importance of this aspect of the business.
our latest major product innovation, the personal rescue device (prd ), has now been in production for a year, and has made an 
important contribution to revenues. w e are working with a number of global companies who are excited by the prd as a solution to 
their rescue needs worldwide. this process takes time because those companies undertake thorough investigations and field testing 
before moving to budgeting and procurement. w e are now at advanced stages of discussion with a number of such customers 
which gives us confidence in the future for this product. In addition, in 3M we have our first harness manufacturer committed to 
selling the prd in combination with their own harness range, and they have placed an initial year's procurement commitment.
w e have also recently developed a guardrail system for use on aircraft in conjunction with the w ingrip system. this enabled us to 
secure a significant contract with Airbus for long term maintenance works, and we expect the system to prove popular with other 
w ingrip customers.
w e are now working on a new, patented product range which will take time to fully bring to market but which we believe will 
significantly reduce end user costs whilst also improving our own margins on some existing products. w e expect the first products in 
this range to be ready for sale towards the end of the current financial year.
Recent Projects
As our international presence expands, we continue to provide fall protection for some of the most prestigious projects worldwide. recent 
major projects include Baku International Airport, Azerbaijan, a coca cola facility in Mexico city, and nestle's manufacturing facility in 
Mumbai, India. closer to home, the secc Glasgow and the o2 skywalk in london were also completed during the year.
our vertical business has had a number of notable successes in the year, particularly in the telecommunications sector.
on the wind energy side, our sealed srl continues to be the product of choice for the industry. during the year, systems were supplied 
for, amongst others, the lincs, robin rigg and scroby sands offshore wind farms in the uK, together with Anholt and dan-t ysk off the 
danish coast. 
w ingrip was also selected for a number of significant projects, including a long term-maintenance project with Airbus, and Qatar Airways at 
the new doha International Airport.
People
It is when conditions are at their most challenging that we see the true value of having a dedicated and talented workforce. 
our whole team has risen to the challenge of recovering from the weak start to the year, and we have seen some outstanding 
performances from both existing team members and those who have joined us in the past 18 months. the additional sales 
resources are now up to speed and actively identifying and supporting new customers around the world. In addition, our 
strengthened operations team is getting to grips with the challenge of managing an expanded product range and consolidating 
production into our new factory, construction of which is well underway with completion planned for october 2013.
the coming year will see further strengthening of the sales team, together with additional resources for new product development, 
to enhance the rate of progress across the business. I am quite sure that our existing team will welcome these enhancements and 
on behalf of the board I would like to thank everyone for their efforts over another successful year.
Current Trading and Prospects
order inflow has been encouraging in the early part of the new year, and our order book is considerably ahead of the same period 
last year. w ith a well-stocked prospect pipeline and continuing investment in revenue-generating resources, I look forward to the 
future with confidence. 
Paul Hearson, Chairman
05