 6 Report of the Directors
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman's review
Operational highlights
Record royalty income and cash flow 
per share
Expansion of royalty portfolio
4 producing royalties, following  
El Valle-Boinas/Carles commencing 
production
Increased dividends to shareholders
Strong cash position

 In the year under review I am 
pleased to report that the Group 
has further expanded its royalty 
portfolio and continues to realise 
profits from the sale of non-core 
mining interests despite difficult 
market conditions. 
 With the Group reporting record 
royalty revenues and a substantial 
liquidity position, the Board 
will again be recommending an 
increased final dividend.
 
A year in review
During the first half of 2011, two natural disasters affected the short term outlook for certain 
commodities to which the Group is exposed.
The extensive flooding in Queensland, Australia, during the first quarter of the year caused 
substantial disruption to coal deliveries from the Group's Kestrel and Crinum coal interests.  
This reduction in output at both mines was more than compensated for by higher coking coal 
prices in the first half of the year resulting in increased royalty cash flows for the Group.
The Fukushima earthquake in March 2011 caused severe disruption in economic activity in 
Japan and elsewhere. The subsequent nuclear disaster affected the prospects for the nuclear 
power industry and the near term outlook for the uranium market.
In the second half of 2011, both mining markets and commodities prices were further impacted 
by fears of recession in Europe and a slackening of demand from China.
Despite these headwinds, the Group was able to realise substantial gains from its strategic 
mining interests and has maintained a resilient, ungeared balance sheet in the face of increasing 
recessive forces. The Group continues to report substantial earnings and record royalty cash 
flows, whilst benefiting from its royalty income based on top line sales revenue at a time  
when the mining industry is subject to significant operating cost inflation, as well as  
fluctuating demand.
The Group's strategy remains focused on securing new royalties, both by acquisition and 
through investment in its mining interests, thereby generating consistent cash flows and 
supporting increasing dividends to shareholders.  Report of the Directors
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors
7
Chairman's review
Australian Coal  
Royalty Valuation
 175.1m -1.1%
 
Total Value of Other Royalties
 93.1m +32.8%

 During 2011, the Group acquired 
an iron ore and a chromite royalty 
and completed the purchase of 
an option to acquire a substantial 
nickel royalty.
 
Royalty portfolio
Acquisitions
The announcement of an agreement to acquire an additional iron ore royalty in February 2012, 
will, following its completion, increase the total royalties in the Group's portfolio to 20, of 
which four are currently in production.
The new royalties announced during the year and after the period end were:
 	On January 12, 2011, the Group completed the previously announced Royalty Option 
Agreement with Horizonte Minerals PLC (Horizonte ) for the Group to purchase a net 
smelter return royalty on all revenues from the advanced exploration stage Araguaia and 
Lontra Nickel Projects (Araguaia Project ) in Brazil. The Group paid Horizonte the sum of 
US$0.5 million in exchange for the six year option to acquire a 1.5% net smelter return 
royalty from the Araguaia Project for US$12.5 million.
 	On August 2, 2011, the Group announced the purchase of an existing 1% net smelter return 
royalty over the Black Label, Black Thor and Big Daddy chromite deposits in Ontario, Canada, 
from KWG Resources Inc (KWG ). These projects are operated by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc 
(Cliffs ) and form part of Cliffs' growth plans in the Ring of Fire  area in northern Ontario. 
The consideration for the acquisition was US$18 million.
 	On August 3, 2011, the Group announced its agreement to provide a non-interest bearing 
advance of US$30 million to London Mining PLC (London Mining ) in exchange for a 1% 
gross revenue royalty over the Isua iron ore project in Greenland. The agreement contains a 
number of milestones. In the event of these not being met, the Group retains the right to be 
repaid in cash or, at London Mining's discretion, in shares at the market price at the time.
 	On November 17, 2011, the Group announced that it had signed a letter of intent with 
Cardero Resource Corp. (Cardero ) relating to a proposal to develop the Trefi coal project in 
British Columbia, Canada. On March 6, 2012, Cardero informed the Group of their withdrawal 
from this proposal. 
 	On February 6, 2012, the Group announced its agreement to acquire 50% of the Mount Ida 
1.5% gross revenue iron ore royalty, in Western Australia, from Red Rock Resources PLC for 
a total consideration of US$14 million. The consideration will be paid in three instalments 
depending on certain milestones being achieved, with the initial payment of US$6 million on 
completion of the transaction.
These acquisitions have broadened and diversified the Group's portfolio of royalties, both by 
commodity and geographically. The Group will continue to focus its efforts on commodities 
leveraged to the Asian growth story.
Royalties Report of the Directors
Chairman's review
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
8 
Producing royalties
Kestrel
Rio Tinto Limited reported coal sales from Kestrel for 2011 of 3.8 million tonnes, a reduction 
compared to 4.4 million tonnes in 2010, and largely due to adverse weather in Queensland 
during the first half of the year. The lower export levels from Australia combined with record 
global steel production supported the strength of coking coal prices throughout the year with 
sale prices for hard coking coal ranging between US$328 and US$235 per tonne.
The higher prices for hard coking coal resulted in Kestrel coal royalties for the year ended 
December 31, 2011 of  26.5 million (A$41.2 million) compared to  21.9 million (A$37.0 
million) received in 2010.
Crinum
As the Crinum longwall leaves the Group's private royalty ground, the royalties for the year 
ended December 31, 2011 reduced to  6.0 million (A$9.1 million) compared to  8.0 million 
(A$7.6 million) received in 2010. In the Group's coal royalty valuation, future production from 
Crinum continues to be difficult to evaluate and as a result is ascribed no value.
Amap  
Royalty receipts for the year ended December 31, 2011 were  2.7 million (2010:  0.2 million). 
This is the first year the Group has received a full year of cash flow from Amap . 
El Valle
The El Valle Boinas/Carles gold and copper mines were commissioned during the second 
quarter of 2011, with production to September 30, 2011 of 9,336 ounces of gold, 1.05 million 
pounds of copper and 28,456 ounces of silver. During the year, maiden receipts of  0.3 million 
arising from the Group's net smelter return royalty were received and applied against the 
debenture instrument.
Engenho
Royalty payments for the year ended December 31, 2011 were  0.3 million. Delays in 
permitting the adjacent Crista deposit and other operational matters have resulted in the 
Engenho operations being put on care and maintenance. On December 20, 2011, Mundo 
Minerals Limited's Brazilian subsidiary was put into the Brazilian equivalent of the US Chapter 
11 process and the Group does not expect any royalty receipts during 2012.
Royalties
Royalty Income
 35.1m +16.6%
Royalty Cash Flow per Share
33.11p +15.6%

 The Group's portfolio of producing 
royalties continues its strong 
performance with record growth 
in royalty income when compared 
with 2010. This demonstrates 
the strength of both the Group's 
business model and strategy.
  Chairman's review
9
Report of the Directors
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors
Equity interests
During the year, the Group continued its strategy of taking equity stakes in strategic 
opportunities with the prospect of potential royalties. This allows the Group to develop 
a detailed understanding of project risks and form working relationships with management. 
Where royalties cease to be a financing option, the Group will seek to dispose of the 
particular equity investment in a manner that is profitable to the Group, while minimising 
disruption to the investee company. This approach has again proved successful with the Group 
realising significant gains for shareholders during 2011 while generating a number of royalty 
opportunities. However, difficult market conditions and a confused outlook for uranium 
affected valuations at the year end. 
Board and personnel developments
On September 23, 2011, Mr. Matthew Tack resigned as Finance Director. He joined the Group 
in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in 2006. He is leaving the Group at the end of March 
2012 to return to Australia after ten years working in the United Kingdom. Mr. Tack has been 
an integral part of the development of the Group during the past seven years and we are 
grateful for the contribution he has made. The Group has recruited a Chief Financial Officer, 
Mr Kevin Flynn, who commenced duties in January 2012.
Outlook
With recent signs of recovery in the US economy and much better bank liquidity within the 
troubled Eurozone, mining markets and commodity prices have improved sharply in the last 
two months. This has resulted in a significant increase in the value of the Group's equity 
interests since the year end. Furthermore, with this improving background, the raising of 
mining finance from conventional lenders or equity issues has become less of a challenge for 
larger mining companies. However, in the junior mining sector access to finance still remains 
challenging. In this environment, the Group continues to identify royalty opportunities and 
receive numerous enquiries for mining finance.
The Group will continue to make the acquisition of new royalties its principal strategic focus, 
leveraging off its cash resources, strong royalty revenues and pro-active management.
Finally, I would like to thank my Board colleagues and staff for their application and hard work 
in achieving another good year's results. 
 
 
P.M. Boycott 
Chairman 
March 9, 2012
Total Assets
 380.2m -8.5%
 
Total Mining and Exploration  
Interests
 64.6m  
 
Cash and Receivables
 44.5m  +19.9%
Assets