  
3 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
During this reporting period, the Company has significantly increased its portfolio of oil and gas production assets, with acquisitions in the US 
Gulf of Mexico, Spain, Trinidad and Hungary and an investment revision in Malta. All acquisitions have existing or near term production with 
considerable upside potential for significant incremental recoverable reserves. The Company's strategy to acquire and enhance existing 
production assets with additional exploitation potential remains unchanged, and is continuing to actively pursue similar opportunities to 
increase both the equity position of existing assets, as well as identify additional similar assets for acquisition. 
 
Since the last full reporting period, the Company has concluded a significant acquisition in the US Gulf of Mexico through its acquisition of 
28.94% of Byron Energy which has interests via an agreement with Leed Petroleum Plc to develop multiple shallow water oil and gas assets 
offshore and onshore USA, and recently executed a heads of agreement to convert this interest into a direct asset working interest. 
 
The Eugene Island asset was the first of these interests to be developed and during the reporting period three wells were developed and 
placed on production.  Between October 2008 and February 2009, the A 6 recompletion, A 7 and A 8 wells were completed and successfully 
tested at gross rates of 1,750 boepd, 4,012 boepd and 2,557 boepd respectively. At the end of the three well development programme in 
February 2009, total production through the Eugene Island production platform was 6,000 boepd gross, at 2,500 bbls of oil and 21 mmscfd of 
gas, as reported by the joint venture operator in February 2009. 
 
Shortly after the end of the Eugene Island development, LGO announced the completion of a Heads of Agreement with Byron Energy to 
transfer the Company's shareholding in Byron Energy from an indirect to a direct ownership of its GoM oil and gas assets and an opportunity 
for portfolio expansion.   This agreement converts the interest in Byron Energy to a direct working interest in Eugene Island equating to direct 
production and sales to LGO of approximately 435 boepd.  
 
The agreement also includes the conversion of LGO's shareholding in Byron Energy to acquire up to 29% of Byron Energy's interest in all option 
properties in the GoM under the existing Leed Petroleum Plc / Byron Scouting Agreement, as well as the option to acquire up to a 20% direct 
working interest in properties acquired by Byron Energy outside of the Leed agreement with effect from end 2008 by paying 30% of all costs. 
 
Also since the last reporting period, the Company has validated the potential of the first production asset in Spain by way of acquiring 100% of 
the operational Ayoluengo oilfield in Spain and has embarked on an ambitious production enhancement program to realise 15 million barrels 
of incremental recoverable reserves and increase production to near 2,500 barrels of oil per day through a five stage enhanced recovery 
program.   
 
Two of the five enhancement programs were initiated in late October 2008 with commencement of water injection at 1600 bwpd into the 
deeper reservoir zones and the first of two phases of field Stimulation. Initial results of the Phase 1 Stimulation program in December 2008 
realised a total production increment of 170% on the historical average pre perforation production levels to a new average of 300 bopd.  An 
overall production of near 500 bopd by completion of the program in mid Q2 2009 is targeted.   
 
During the remainder of 2009, four of the five planned enhancement programs are due for completion. The Stimulation programs are set to 
improve production efficiency and well productivity. The expansion of the Water Injection facilities should triple injection rates hence adding 
to overall oil production from the field. The execution of a large perforation campaign later in the year is to target 400m of undepleted 
reservoir zones which will also increase oil production.  The combination of these programs is targeting minimum production levels of 1,500 
bopd by the end of 2009 with a stretch target of 2,000 bopd. An infill drilling program is planned for end Q1 2010 to increase production near 
the 2,500 bopd overall field target. 
 
The surrounding exploration acreage in Spain (Basconcillos H, Huermeces and Valderredible permits) also show significant potential for 
additional near term developments, and the Company's technical team conducted an area wide re interpretation to develop a fast track 
exploitation program. To this extent, the Company increased its holding in these permits from 50% to 85% during the period.  
 
In total 10 prospects (of which two are historical oil discoveries and one a gas discovery not previously assessed) were identified across the 
acreage with a total unrisked mean gross STOIIP of 74 mmb and gross GIIP of 4bcf. The recoverable prospective and contingent resources 
across the 10 prospects have a total unrisked mean volume of gross 12.8 mmboe (LGO 85%). These prospective and contingent resources are 
in addition to the recoverable reserves target from Ayoluengo of 15.0 mmboe. 
 
Further to the re interpretation of the 10 prospects, four with greatest potential have been identified for either extended well testing or 
detailed imaging surveys in order to accelerate near term development in 2010.  The 2009 work program shall focus on appraising these four 
prospects and developing the optimum exploitation plan.  
  
Also in Spain, the Company signed an innovative agreement with a Spanish Government Foundation to commence the investigate of Carbon 
Capture and Storage Enhanced Oil Recovery sites, and in early 2009 signed a joint development agreement to commence work programs on 
the western flank of Ayoluengo and the Huermeces licence. This project has the potential to considerably boost production from both of these 
areas through successful CO
2
 flood tertiary oil recovery. 
 
The Company also acquired a 50% interest in the producing Icacos oilfield in Southern Trinidad by way of exercising an option agreement in 
January 2008.  The field is jointly owned with the operator of the field, Primera Oil. The acquisition of 50% of the producing Icacos oilfield in 
Trinidad provides the Company with a foothold in one of the richest oil and gas bearing areas of the world and access to the highly prospective 
East Venezuelan Basin.  
   
4 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
In order to step change the existing production of the Icacos asset, and validate the magnitude of the prospective deeper reserves, the 
Company undertook a review of the Icacos oilfield to establish recoverable reserve potential and define production enhancement programs 
similar to those planned in Spain.  These work programs shall continue during 2009 and shall focus on maximising well productivity and 
production infrastructure efficiency with the execution of imaging surveys to identify both shallow and deep development opportunities for 
infill drilling and deep exploitation.   
 
So far during 2009, the production enhancement programs in Trinidad have stabilized gross production at 40 bopd (LGO 50%), an increase of 
30% since acquisition, and further expansion is planned.  The Company also submitted a bid for a second mature redevelopment asset in 
onshore eastern Trinidad. 
 
In Hungary, the Company has brought onstream with joint venture partners its first gas production asset in the Pen szlek development area 
and has commenced the second stage of development by identifying halo prospects to connect to the new production infrastructure from a 
large 3D seismic survey acquired at end 2008. 
 
The results of the seismic interpretation of the Pen szlek development area identified five new resources with unrisked mean GIIP totalling 
11.27 bcf gross (LGO 7.27%), excluding the resources of the prematurely abandoned Pen szlek Miocene field.  The total unrisked mean gas 
resources include two locations totalling contingent resources of 2.57 bcf gross and three locations totalling prospective resources of 4.65 bcf 
gross. 
 
The first of the contingent resource locations completed sidetrack drilling just before end of the reporting period and successfully tested at 2.5 
mmscfd gross with the remaining four locations planned during the remainder of 2009 to substantially increase gas sales revenue from East 
Hungary. 
 
Also in Hungary, we are working with MOL to define the re development program for increasing gas recovery from the Bajcsa gasfield. This 
program has the objective to near double the recovery of the multiple fields covered under the MOL agreement.  During the reporting period, 
the joint venture undertook various field stimulation programs to optimize the re development program which is now planned for mid 2009. 
 
During the period, the Company has also de risked the portfolio, by reducing exposure in high risk exploration plays in Malta and Switzerland.  
In Malta the Company's interest was halved to 10% and a second stage work program commenced to increase the understanding of the 
prospect and leads and increase their relative chance of success for identifying the highest potential for drilling in 2010 and 2011.   The 
Company's position in Switzerland was relinquished in early 2009. 
 
Over the next reporting period, the Company is planning to substantially increase oil production in the US Gulf of Mexico, Spain, Trinidad and 
Hungary, develop and plan the execution of major development and production enhancement programs in all of these countries, and identify 
high potential drilling prospects in Malta.    
 
At the end of the current reporting period, the Company is averaging attributable production over 800 boepd.  An increase of over 300% is 
conservatively targeted by end of the next reporting period with a daily production target of 2,500 boepd from the four countries of producing 
operations, the majority from Spain and US Gulf of Mexico. 
 
The Company is continually seeking to increase the portfolio value through further acquisitions and strengthening the position in existing 
assets thereby allowing LGO to optimise exploitation programmes and increase overall production. 
 
The Directors are encouraged by the considerable potential of the portfolio and by the results of the reporting period with production 
increases of five fold since acquisition and given the high activity levels planned, is looking forward to further enhancement of portfolio value. 
In line with expectations the Company is reporting: 
  Pre tax operating profit before amortisation from Spain of  923,000 
  Pre tax group loss of  552,000, mainly attributable to a non cash item of  675,000 relating to share based payments  
  Strong balance sheet with net current assets of  1.3 million 
Although the market conditions are challenging, the Directors are excited about the prospects for the Company in the year ahead and would 
like to take this opportunity of thanking all of our staff, employees, consultants and our shareholders for their ongoing support. 
 
 
 
 
David Lenigas 
Executive Chairman 
27 April 2009