 The group profit before tax amounted to  2,996,000 compared with  4,829,000 in 2003. However,
taxation of  3,545,000 and minority interests of  167,000 resulted in a loss attributable to
shareholders of  382,000 or 2.0p per share. Despite this loss, which was mainly due to provisions
associated with the closure of the tea operations in South Africa, your board are confident that the
prospects for the company remain sound and are therefore recommending a final dividend of 5p
per share compared with a total distribution of 13p per share in 2003.
Agriculture and horticulture
Tea
Climatic conditions in 2004 were generally favourable and subsidiary companies produced 41.5
million kgs.. Our operations in Kenya and Malawi performed well and produced satisfactory
profits, maintaining good quality with increased yield. Our involvement in the smallholder sector
in both countries also expanded during the year and now forms a meaningful part of our business
on which we hope to build further in the future.
The situation in respect of tea production in South Africa deteriorated further in 2004 due to the
continuing strength of the rand, the imposition of a comparatively high minimum wage and the
withdrawal of duty protection against tea imports. As foreshadowed in my statements made to
shareholders last year, the potential losses that were likely to be incurred in continuing to run our
operations were of such a magnitude that the board was left with no alternative but to cease
production. The closure costs included in the 2004 accounts amount to a net figure of  2,032,000.
Citrus
Yandilla Park enjoyed an improved year in Australia with good production and prices. The
packing and marketing operations also benefited from increased demand. In October, Yandilla
Park entered into a contract to sell the majority of its orchards to an agricultural investment
company but will retain the management of the properties under a fifteen-year agreement.
Co-incidentally, an offer was received in 2005 for all the share capital of East African Coffee
Plantations Limited which was considered to fully value the underlying operations and the group
decided to accept this offer, which has now been declared unconditional, in respect of its 70.5%
holding.
The citrus orchards in California are progressing well and will shortly provide a useful
diversification from the effects of the biennial bearing pattern of the pistachios.
Production in South Africa and Chile is satisfactory and moving towards maturity although, as with
tea, the strength of the South African rand has reduced returns in that country.
Edible nuts
2004 was a very good year for the pistachio operations in California with good yields combining
with a strong market price.
Our macadamia orchards in both Malawi and South Africa also experienced a good year. Drought
conditions caused a reduction in yield in South Africa but prices remain strong and the prospects
for this crop are encouraging. We intend to develop our interests in macadamia and plant further
hectarage in South Africa and Malawi.
Other horticulture
The pineapple joint venture in Kenya with Del Monte made a valuable contribution to Kakuzi's
earnings with production and profits exceeding expected levels. Current arrangements with Del
Monte expire in 2008 and we are at present negotiating a new agreement that may also
encompass further areas of land previously utilised by the coffee operations. Avocados made a
significant contribution to Kakuzi's earnings and expansion of the avocado orchards is ongoing.
5
Chairman's statement
Linton Park Plc Wine grape production in Australia was good but the market has been flooded with surplus wine,
which is a worldwide phenomenon affecting also the market in Chile and South Africa. The
strength of the South African rand has also contributed to the difficulty in exporting wine
profitably into European markets. Our South African reserve merlot 2001 has however recently
been awarded a Grand Gold Medal at the prestigious Concours Mondial de Bruxelles 2005.
Brazil again enjoyed a good year with excellent yields and with soya prices continuing to benefit
from demand from China. Drought will affect production in the current year and prices have
moved downwards, particularly as a result of the increased crop in North America in 2004.
Food storage and distribution
2004 was another disappointing year for Associated Cold Stores and Transport. The market
remains very competitive with rates continuing their downward path as a result of further cost
pressure on suppliers from the major retailers. Additional cost reduction measures have taken
place and the management team has been restructured.
Affish performed well in 2004 although Wylax suffered from lack of demand from the Dutch
restaurant sector.
Engineering
The poor results for 2004 relate particularly to AKD at Lowestoft where capacity far exceeded the
demand from a depressed oil and gas sector resulting in low margins. The effect of the increase in
the price of oil is now filtering through with a greatly increased rate of enquiries and a fuller
order book.
Our Scottish engineering operations have been consolidated under one management structure that
is already proving to be beneficial.
Abbey Metal Finishing, British Metal Treatments (Galvanising) and General Utilities all produced
satisfactory results for the year. Abbey continues to gradually regain business lost following the
fire in 2000 and the prospects are now more encouraging.
Pharmaceuticals
The Siegfried Group experienced a difficult year in 2004 with sales declining 12% to SFr. 321.4
million resulting in profit after tax of SFr. 16.4 million compared with SFr. 53.3 million in 2003.
Excess capacity in the active pharmaceutical ingredients business was the principal cause of the
decline. The generics and biologics businesses performed to expectations.
Cost reduction measures have been implemented over the last few months but it will take a little
time for the benefits to show through in the results of the company.
Development
We continue to invest in the planting of further areas of edible nuts, citrus and wine grapes.
Kakuzi is actively involved in planning for the development of areas taken out of coffee
production in 2003. This will include avocados, pineapples and edible nuts as well as increased
areas of forestry. Production facilities are being increased in the macadamia processing plant in
Malawi. The on-going improvement of the general infrastructure on our plantations remains a
priority.
6
Chairman's statement
continued
Linton Park Plc Goodbye to an old friend
This is the last year that accounts will be presented to you in their present format. In future,
accounts will have to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards, a significant thrust
of which is to account on the basis of  fair value'. Movements in the market value of our
biological assets will be required to be included in the profit and loss account. Changes in the
market value of other investments will be adjusted in reserves. To me, this seems yet another
example of short term thinking and has little relevance to an operation such as ours where
investments are held for the long term. To account for the fluctuations of such  market values' will
in my view be confusing and not allow shareholders to really understand the underlying
profitability and worth of the company.
Inter alia, the standards require:
a) Leasehold lands to be re-designated as operating leases and not form part of fixed assets
even if they have up to 900 years until expiry and even though the buildings situated
thereon are still to be classified as fixed assets.
b) The valuation of  biological assets' separately from the land on which they sit. This
valuation is again to be related to market value but in the absence of a readily established
market price, the required value will be derived from the estimated future earnings of the
asset discounted to reflect the risk attached to such asset. The necessary valuation will
therefore have regard to the likely changes over the following ten years of weather
patterns, yield assumptions, commodity prices, country risk and discount factors. This must
surely be much more subjective than the historic cost convention and does it really provide
a better basis for the valuation of tea bushes or other growing plants? I doubt it, and to
provide for the changes in such valuations through the accounts and thereby suggest that
any increase in value is part of the earnings of that year, and thus available for distribution,
seems to me to be misleading.
c) The provision for deferred capital gains tax on the perceived value of biological assets even
when capital gains tax would not be payable as, for example, in Kenya. 
There are many other aspects of the standards that will henceforth have to be incorporated in the
accounts. We will do our best to make the accounts as intelligible as possible. Further
consideration will need to be given to the manner in which the accounts are presented so that
they give a  true and fair view'.
Staff
In thanking our staff throughout the world for their contribution in 2004, I would particularly like
to mention the following: Firstly, those that have been required to implement the closure of our
tea operations in South Africa. This has been a traumatic and distressing event for all concerned
and has been handled by our executives with much fortitude and skill. Secondly, all those that
have contributed so positively to the success of our Australian operations that have now been
sold. These operations have been built up over the last 15 years to become a leading part of the
citrus industry in Australia. I wish Andrew Weigall, Clifford Ashby and their team every success in
the future.
M C Perkins
Chairman
28 April 2005
7
Linton Park Plc