 The Group profit before tax for the year amounted to  4,829,000 compared with  14,614,000 in
2002. The profit attributable to shareholders amounted to  4,746,000 after deductions for taxation
and minority interests and represents earnings per share of 24.9p. In view of these disappointing
results, the board is recommending a final dividend of 10p per share which, together with the
interim dividend already paid of 3p per share, brings the total distribution for the year to 13p per
share compared with 18p per share in 2002.
The poor commodity prices, adverse climatic conditions and the strength of some local currencies
compared to the US dollar, all of which I referred to in my interim statement in 2003, continued
during the second half of the year. Siegfried Holding AG again made a significant contribution to
profits.
Agriculture and Horticulture
Tea
Tea production by subsidiary undertakings increased in 2003 and amounted to 39.1 million kilos.
This production can be considered satisfactory when viewed with the effects of El Nino , the
cycle of which started in late 2002. Tea prices were reasonable in US dollar terms but were
substantially reduced when translated into local currencies, in particular the South African rand.
The strengthening of the South African rand, which appreciated by 22% during the year has
resulted in a substantial loss from the Sapekoe tea operations. This is particularly disappointing, as
so much has been achieved in restructuring the management of that company to make it
competitive in world markets. We are not alone in suffering from the impact of the strong rand
which unfortunately has continued to strengthen against the dollar in 2004 resulting in projected
losses which cannot be sustained. Unless we can be confident that the rand will weaken in the
near future we will have no alternative but to severely reduce the scale of our tea operations in
South Africa. The Group has continued its emphasis on producing quality teas and this has
contributed to a successful year in both Kenya and Malawi.
Coffee
The fortunes of our coffee operations in Kenya and Malawi did not improve in 2003. Prices
continued to fall in world markets particularly for the arabica coffee that was grown on our
plantations. Production has increased substantially in countries where the cost of production is
lower than in Kenya. In addition, the demand for arabica coffee appears to be reducing as
technological advances allow greater quantities of the cheaper robusta coffee to be used in the
production of instant coffee. During the last few years the Kakuzi coffee operations have lost
approximately US$1 million per annum and, due to the fact that there seemed little likelihood of
an imminent improvement in the prospects for this commodity, the decision was made to remove
all coffee bushes and prepare the land for replanting with alternative crops. This decision has far-
reaching consequences for Kakuzi and the surrounding communities and we are attempting to
mitigate these problems as far as possible. It will, however, inevitably take sometime before the
newly planted crops make a contribution to profits. This decision also resulted in an impairment
provision being required of  4.194 million of which  1.626 million is shown in the profit and loss
account. During the year work started on replanting the coffee areas in Malawi to fuel wood
plantations for use in our tea operations.
Citrus
Yandilla Park experienced a difficult year in 2003 with considerably reduced production and very
competitive market conditions. A large part of our exports are shipped to America and, as
previously noted, the Australian dollar strengthened substantially against the US dollar resulting in
lower returns. Both Chile and South Africa increased their production of citrus as these plantings
continue to mature. The new orchards in California enjoyed a most encouraging first year of
production being nearly 300% up on our original projection. Planting of further areas of citrus is
presently being undertaken on land that was previously planted with almonds.
5
Chairman's statement
Linton Park Plc Edible Nuts
2003 was an off  year for pistachios in California, with only minimal production. Both South
Africa and Malawi increased their production of macadamia nuts and achieved higher prices.
Prospects for our macadamia interests remain encouraging and since the year end we have
increased our shareholding to over 50% in the macadamia processing factory in South Africa.
Other Horticulture
The pineapple joint venture in Kenya with Del Monte substantially increased its production at
prices somewhat higher than the previous year. We are in discussions with our partner concerning
the possibility of extending the area under pineapple. The avocado production in Kenya showed
a further increase in 2003 and prices were also beneficial. Here again we are looking at further
investment in the avocado sector as we are confident that the growing conditions in Kenya are
excellent, as is the timing of the exports into European markets.
Production from our wine grapes in Australia was slightly ahead of the previous year although
prices were considerably reduced as a result of the present glut in production. In South Africa we
enjoyed a very successful harvest but market conditions for South Africa are also difficult due to
the strength of the rand and over production. We are re-vamping our marketing operations and
are now selling wine in a number of European countries as well as in North America. Our
premium wines continue to attract considerable interest.
It is pleasing to report a very good result from our operations in Brazil. Growing conditions were
good resulting in an increased yield and prices, particularly for soya, were beneficial. Whilst the
conditions relating to the 2003 year were to some extent exceptional, the prospects for our
operations in Brazil remain encouraging and local management are to be congratulated in all that
they have achieved over the last two years.
Food Storage and Distribution
The results for Associated Cold Stores & Transport were most disappointing. The expected savings
as a result of the implementation of a new IT system are taking longer to materialise than we had
hoped and business is very competitive with rates being forced down due to over capacity and
cost pressure particularly from the major supermarkets. It appears inevitable that some form of
rationalisation must take place in the cold storage industry. Insurance costs have stabilised albeit
at a high level and we must also be concerned about the effects of the revised Working Time
Directive due to be implemented in 2005 particularly as it relates to our drivers.
Losses continued at W G White due to reduced caviar sales. It appeared unlikely that the fortunes
of W G White would improve to an extent that we would consider satisfactory and we have,
therefore, disposed of this business in early 2004.
The Affish Group enjoyed a better year in 2003 with the fish trading side of the business being
particularly profitable. There has, however, been little improvement in the fortunes of our
distribution business servicing the Dutch restaurant sector.
Engineering
The engineering sector continued to operate in a challenging environment. As anticipated last year
it has proved difficult for Abbey to recover to the level of turnover achieved prior to the fire in
2000. Business interruption insurance income has now ceased.
The North Sea oil and gas industry servicing companies improved their results over the previous year
but much still needs to be done to return these companies to an acceptable level of return on capital.
The impact of major oil companies disposing of their North Sea interests to smaller operating
companies is definitely changing the environment in which we operate but there are good
opportunities to develop. British Metal Treatments experienced mixed fortunes with good
contributions from the galvanising operations in Great Yarmouth and the plating operation in Port
Glasgow offset by losses at our Birmingham operation. This has now been closed and some work
will transfer to Port Glasgow, which should help to further increase the viability of that site. General
Utilities has now moved on to one site and the benefits of this should flow through in 2004.
6
Chairman's statement
continued
Linton Park Plc Pharmaceutical
The Siegfried Group generated revenues of SFr. 366.2 million which represented a decrease of
8.2% in SFr. but only 4% in local currency terms. Profits after tax were SFr. 53.3 million, which
compares with SFr. 56.2 million in the record year of 2002.
The Siegfried Division  which comprises the Group's activities for active pharmaceutical
ingredients (API's), Generics and Biologics felt the full impact of weaker demand for API's which
led to a substantial drop in capacity utilisation. The generics and biologics business however
continued to grow in sales and in profits. With effect from January 2004 the Division was
reorganised into three business units. The Siegfried Actives business develops and manufactures
API's for patent protected pharmaceuticals. The Siegfried Generics business unit develops dossiers
for product registration and develops finished dosage forms for mainly European generics
companies. Siegfried Biologics, located in Germany, develops and manufactures biotechnology-
based pharmaceutical active substances.
The Sidroga Division develops and markets plant-based natural medicines and wellness products,
particularly teas. After adjusting for the closing of the tea packing activities in Bremen, Germany, a
5.4% growth in sales for 2003 resulted. At the same time, innovative products made an important
contribution.
Development
2003 has been a very difficult year in certain parts of the Group but we continue to invest in
bringing immature plantings to maturity. We are also continuing to invest in facilities and
amenities on our plantations. There remain good opportunities for further development in the
edible nut sector and also in citrus in South Africa, Chile and California.
Directors and Staff
There have been a number of changes to your board over the last year. Chris Relleen joined the
board as a non-executive director on 1 July 2003 following the retirement of Ben Martin. Stuart
Brown retired as finance director in November 2003 after 13 years of service and Anil Mathur
joined the board in that capacity. Denis Bowley will be retiring in June and, therefore, will not be
standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. Denis joined the group in 1991 as
Managing Director of our subsidiary company, Associated Fisheries. He joined the Linton Park
Board in 1993 and became Deputy Chairman of the Group in 1996 having assumed responsibility
for all the Group's UK and continental operations. I would like to thank Denis and Stuart for their
contribution to the Group and to wish them both an enjoyable and healthy retirement.
2003 was again a very difficult year for many of our operations. These difficulties have, however,
been met with resilience and good humour by our staff and I extend my thanks to them for their
positive contribution.
M C Perkins
Chairman
27 April 2004
7
Linton Park Plc