 Chairman's Statement
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
This year has marked a significant positive change in performance across the Group as a result of actions
taken to underpin our strategy in a changing landscape for radio in the UK:
 Revenues have increased during the year on a like for like (from continuing operations) basis by 2.2% 
and the business became cash positive for the period May to September.
 Our cost reduction programme reduced overheads by 5% and we have disposed of non core stations.
 Local station radio brands have been extended into a new local website offering which is proving 
successful with listeners and advertisers.
 The First Radio Sales business has launched a web sales division. 
 A successful cash injection of  2.8 million has positioned the Group to benefit from market opportunities
 First Radio Sales generated record commission revenues of over  2 million.
 Audiences continue to grow across the Local Radio Company's stations.
Market improvement
The much noted market decline in advertising revenues that had continued during the first half of the year
have relented and revenues for the industry were up by 3% for the second half. Throughout the period the
Local Radio Company has outperformed the rest of the radio sector and we believe that the unique appeal
of local radio brands, as opposed to our regional and national brand peers, has enabled the Company to track
a more robust course in tough markets.
Revenue increase
Revenue at five of our radio stations exceeded  1 million and six others achieved between  750,000 and  1
million. One of our larger stations, Sun FM, achieved its best ever performance with  1.2 million in revenue
and one of our newer stations, Durham FM, achieved sales of  628,000 in its first full year. In June 2007 we
launched Northallerton FM, a small station which joins our North East and Yorkshire clusters.
Audience growth
The strong run of audience growth continues across our stations and RAJAR results for Quarter 3 2007
confirm that we now reach a total audience of 920,000 weekly listeners who listen for 7.5 million hours across
our 27 stations. A year ago the Company had 900,000 weekly listeners listening for 7 million hours. 
Cost reduction
We have continued with the programme to reduce our cost base and develop the business for the future. On
31 October 2006 the Company sold the entire share capital of Merseyside's The Rocket Limited for  100,000,
 40,000 of which was deferred. We also discontinued our loss making Enterprises operation at the end of the
last financial year. Our total overheads, excluding provision for share based payments, fell by  727,000
against the previous year, a reduction of 5%.
New revenue streams
Given the strong loyalty of local radio audiences we are benefiting from technological developments and the
many options now available to audiences to listen to our medium. We have made solid progress during the
period in leveraging the Company's 920,000 listener base. We have made a significant investment in our
online strategy, extending our strong local brands and have started to generate new, non-traditional,
revenue streams. 
In the second half new websites have been launched across the Group, encouraging interactivity, with online
streaming of our radio stations and providing opportunities for our advertisers to market their products or
services across both platforms through the Company's Microsite Development Offering for advertisers. This
approach marries online and radio advertising and reflects growing listenership via the websites across each
of our 27 stations. Many of the Company's advertisers are local enterprises without the scale to develop their
own online marketing platform. 
The Local Radio Company PLC
Annual Report 2007
3 Chairman's Statement (continued)
During the period we completed a transaction which has created another exciting new model for the business
by linking two dynamic media platforms. At the end of the financial year we entered into a commercial
arrangement with Portsmouth Football Club (PFC ). The Company transferred the entire issued capital of
The Quay, Isle of Wight Radio and Spirit FM to a new company, Quadrant Media Limited, and PFC purchased
a 26% stake for  1 million. PFC will have the right to increase their shareholding to 50% during the period
to 28 September 2008 on the payment of a further cash sum of  950,000.
First Radio Sales
The Company has a 50% shareholding in First Radio Sales Limited which sells airtime for 134 local radio
stations across the UK to national media buying agencies and their clients. This is an extremely successful
business that has grown since its formation and this year generated record commission revenues of over 
 2 million. First Radio Sales has launched a new digital sales operation, FRSD, which offers advertisers the
opportunity to buy space on many of the websites of the 134 radio stations in its portfolio.
Corporate developments
In November 2006 the Company raised  2.8 million net of expenses and welcomed Hallwood Investments
Limited on to the share register and Tony Gumbiner and Rhys Davies onto the Board. I would like to thank
Graham Parrott, who stood down from the Board in May, for his support and guidance.
As outlined in a recent EGM circular it is the Board's view that the current market valuation of The Local
Radio Company represents a significant discount to the value at which other radio assets have been recently
acquired. In October 2007 shareholders authorised the Board to purchase in the market up to 14.99% of the
issued Ordinary Shares of the Company. This will have the effect of reducing the Company's equity base
thereby increasing cash flow and asset value on a per share basis. The High Court has subsequently authorised
the Company to reduce its share premium account, creating distributable reserves that will be used for the
share purchase. 
Future of Radio
On 22 November 2007, OFCOM published the document: The Future of Radio; the next phase. This statement
and consultation had three main themes - localness, ownership rules and digital - and was broadly positive
for The Local Radio Company. 
We are pleased that OFCOM's statement validates our view of the importance of localness to commercial
radio audiences and the acknowledgement by OFCOM that local radio is the default medium for delivering
key local information. We also welcome OFCOM's approach on co-location. All of our stations are below the
250,000 adult listener threshold proposed for co-location giving us the opportunity to realise additional
operational synergies in future. We also welcome the proposed simplification of ownership rules. However,
while simplification will allow further consolidation, we do not expect to see any significant changes in the
short term as primary legislation is required to introduce the proposed reforms. 
On the third theme of digital, a working group is being set up by OFCOM and the Department of Culture,
Media and Sport to assess the conditions needed for digital platforms to become the predominant means of
delivering radio in the UK. While we have no sunk investments in digital radio, we intend to play a central
role in shaping this process in order to reduce the considerable uncertainty about the timing, technologies
and implementation of any future digital switchover. 
Market opportunities
There are a number of opportunities in the UK local radio market for consolidation and the Company's
resilient performance in the recent challenging market conditions has underlined our ability to integrate
stations under the Local Radio Company's umbrella, enabling them to benefit from operating synergies. 
In particular, the economies of scale associated with the local radio sector can radically improve efficiencies
within many back office functions and we believe that some independent stations would benefit from
exploiting these advantages. In addition, their local advertisers could benefit from our integrated marketing
approach. The Board is aware of a number of ongoing market developments and is committed to its strategy
to grow revenues through acquisitions which demonstrate clear value.
The Local Radio Company PLC
Annual Report 2007
4 Chairman's Statement (continued)
STRATEGY AND FUTURE OUTLOOK
In addition to pursuing an acquisition strategy in local radio the Board will continue with its successful
strategy of developing the business through organic growth, improving our operational performance,
optimising our portfolio of radio station assets and developing new revenue streams through the online
extension of our local brands. We are pleased that our revenue and bottom line performance for October and
November are ahead of last year. Whilst the outlook remains uncertain, we are confident and determined
that the improvement in our performance will continue.
Finally, I would like to extend a sincere thank you to all our talented, creative and dedicated staff who have
worked hard to enable the Company to make excellent progress.
Richard Wheatly
Executive Chairman
14 December 2007
The Local Radio Company PLC
Annual Report 2007
5