 02 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
SUMMARY
In trading conditions on par with last year, and 
with competition remaining strong, Lombard Risk
continued to see consistent demand for its
products and services over the past year. Customer
gains were particularly notable in the business
areas of Independent Valuation Services and credit
derivatives pricing.
The Company was successfully floated on the
AIM section of the London Stock Exchange
in September 2004 at 8p per share, and in
November 2004 received an additional  1.1 million
investment at 9p per share from Putnam Lovell,
a subsidiary of National Bank of Canada.
FINANCIAL
Revenue increased to  4.62m against  4.53m for
the previous year, with a reduced loss before tax of
 1.13m, versus a comparable figure of  1.21m for
2004. The loss before interest, tax and exceptional
items was  0.78m.
Revenue was impacted by the timing of several large
transactions which failed to close by the year end,
or which were transacted on a rental/subscription
basis rather than a licence basis. The sales mix was
different from expectations; software rental and data
revenues were at a higher level, while licence sales
were at a lower level than expected.
Recurrent revenue was at a higher level than
expected and contributed over 75% of total
revenue. In addition, the revenue profile remained
well dispersed, with no single client accounting
for more than 6% of total revenue.
Costs were increased post IPO by the addition
of several new members of staff in sales and
marketing together with ongoing listing costs and
the addition of two Non-Executive Directors. There
is a growing sales pipeline owing to the sales team's
efforts, but it has taken longer than expected for the
new team to reach full productivity.
Oberon, the trading and risk management system,
remained profitable for the sixteenth consecutive
year and made two key new customer wins during
the year, while Firmament's revenue contribution
increased, and the product continues to be
expanded and enhanced in the areas of credit
trading and collateral management.
The Independent Valuation Service business
continues to see demand growth as the
marketplace increasingly recognises the importance
of independent valuations, and our ValuSpread
data business is benefiting from continued growth
in the volume of credit derivatives traded.
The Company ended the year with cash and
marketable securities of  0.9m. In addition, the
Company has the ability to reclaim R&D tax credits
totalling several hundred thousand pounds; however
the Board believes that, as a result of trading and
corporate activity, it may be able to make use of a
large proportion of its tax losses in the next financial
period, and has consequently for the first time in
four years not applied to surrender any of its tax
losses against payment for R&D tax credits.
SOFTWARE PRODUCTS
Oberon continues to provide capital to support the
development of other products, as well as gaining new
customers. Work has continued to make Oberon a very

The Board remains positive about
the growth story and prospects
for the Company over the next
few years.
 
_0_LOM_arf05.qxd  24/08/2005  11:08  Page 02 03 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
open system using our OBI utility. Functionally the
product has made good progress with new pricing
models and support for additional instruments.
All Oberon customers are now using Oberon 5,
thus streamlining the product support function.
Firmament, the Company's latest software platform
for trading and risk management, continues to gain
ground and has benefited particularly this year from
a new development partnership with Banca IMI
in Milan, Italy. This is for the further enhancement
of Firmament Collateral, the software platform for
collateral trading and risk management. Client wins
for Firmament Credit Trading have included hedge
funds and a prominent Fund Administrator.
MANAGED SERVICES AND DATA
The continued strong growth in the hedge fund
and alternative investment markets have heightened
the awareness of, and demand for, independent
valuations by both asset managers and their
investors. In addition, there has been increasing focus
by regulators on independent valuation and the IAS 39
directive on fair value accounting for derivatives,
which will be significant drivers for the Independent
Valuation Services business. These factors have
already been reflected in a healthy growth in sales
leads for the business as well as new customers.
The growth in the credit derivatives market has
continued at over 40% per annum, and the British
Bankers' Association estimated that the total market
size, as measured by notional amount, had reached
US$5.5 trillion by the end of 2004. The volume of
instruments traded has also continued to rise, and
this has been reflected in the significant growth in
credits handled by the ValuSpread data business.
PERSONNEL
We welcomed two very experienced Directors to the
Board in the last year, Brian Crowe and Dan Kochav,
both of whom are current practitioners in very
relevant businesses. Brian Crowe joined at the time
of our IPO, and is Deputy Chief Executive of Royal
Bank of Scotland's Corporate Banking and Financial
Markets division. Dan Kochav joined our Board
following the investment by Putnam Lovell and is
Managing Director of Alternative Investments there,
having previously been a Managing Director of
Toronto Dominion Bank. This association with
Putnam Lovell and its network of contacts has
already brought significant additional benefits to
the Company, particularly as it seeks to expand
its North American customer base and activities. 
OBERON
 
FIRMAMENT
 
Oberon is a fast, accurate
and reliable trading and risk
management system, designed
specifically for interest rate
derivatives, FX, money market
and fixed income portfolios.
It handles the entire deal life cycle
from pricing and deal capture,
through to valuation, reporting and
ISDA compliant documentation.
SOFTWARE
Our software systems provide
functionality for the trading and risk
management of the full range of
financial instruments. The systems are
designed to integrate seamlessly to
form an entire financial solution for
even the most demanding trading
environment, and fit effortlessly within
an organisation's existing infrastructure.
Firmament is a suite of next
generation trading risk management
and analysis applications.
Applications can be purchased
singly, as stand-alone products, or 
as a suite running on popular server
and client platforms providing a
consolidated business solution.
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
VALUSPREAD
 
The ValuSpread Credit service
provides precise and regular market
data on credit default swaps.
DATA
Obtaining fair-value prices for the full
range of OTC derivative positions, and
having prompt access to comprehensive
and accurate data is essential for many
financial institutions, but very time and
resource intensive to achieve.
INDEPENDENT 
VALUATION SERVICES
Independent Valuation Services
values OTC derivative positions,
swiftly, regularly, cost effectively,
and of course, independently.
MANAGED SERVICES
Independent portfolio valuations are
increasingly required for regulatory
reasons, and are a cost effective
valuation method.
At the beginning of March, Ian Hopkins, who had
previously founded and headed up the ValuSpread
business during a six year tenure with the Company,
rejoined as Managing Director of ValuSpread after
a two year absence.
INVESTMENTS
Lombard Risk still holds a stake of 3% (5.6m shares)
in its former subsidiary IDOX plc, which is quoted
on AIM. The Board's position remains that it will
retain or dispose of this holding based on investment
considerations alone. 
IDOX is an example of a business bought by
Lombard Risk, successfully incubated and then spun
out at an appropriate time. This is a model that the
Board feels comfortable with, and over the next few
years it can be anticipated that the Company will
engage in further similar corporate activity.
PROSPECTS
At the time of writing, the Company had just
agreed to sell its ValuSpread business. This disposal
will substantially improve the balance sheet of the
Company and create a very strong cash position
for a company of our size. It will also provide
additional capability to execute on the Company's
strategic plan to be a specialist supplier of risk and
valuation products and services to the financial
services market place.
The Board believes that the high level of recurrent
revenues of the business overall provides a sound
foundation for growth. The Board is confident that
market demand in our focus areas of credit derivatives
and hedge fund management will continue to grow,
as will the area of independent valuations. The Board
remains positive about the growth story and prospects
for the Company over the next few years.
The year in which we made the transition to quoted
status was a significant year for the Company. In
addition, owing to our former head office building
being redeveloped by our landlords, the Company
had to move office in October 2004. Inevitably both
the IPO and the office move meant that many of
our team had to go the extra mile over and above
their normal jobs, and I would like to thank all my
colleagues in London and our other offices, as well
as our advisors, for their hard work and support.
JOHN WISBEY C CH HA AI IR RM MA AN N  A AN ND D  C CE EO O
9 August 2005 
_0_LOM_arf05.qxd  24/08/2005  11:08  Page 03