 5
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
I 
am delighted to report that l ookers has delivered a record trading performance 
for the year, ahead of market expectations, with group like for like new car sales 
(defined as excluding businesses closed in 2008) outperforming the uk new car 
market. The results should be considered against the background of the difficult trading 
conditions in the uk motor retail market which started in 2008 and continued in 2009, as 
well as difficult general economic conditions across the uk . The group's performance, 
therefore, represents an impressive achievement against this background and is 
encouraging for the future and in particular the remainder of 2010.
As i reported in our last annual report, the second half of 2008 saw an unprecedented decline 
in new car sales volumes and used car values which resulted in management taking decisive 
action at the time to restructure the Motor Division with the closure of 21 underperforming 
franchised operations. t his action significantly reduced overheads, strengthened the business 
and placed it in a stronger position to trade through the economic downturn and to emerge 
from it as a stronger and more efficient business. we continue to benefit from our diversified 
business structure with strong performances from both the motor division and our market 
leading independent parts division.
t he u K new car market reduced by 6% in 2009 compared to the previous year with total 
registrations of just under 2 million. t his was the lowest volume since 1995, despite the 
introduction of the Government scrappage scheme which added 284,000 registrations. Group 
like for like new car sales increased by 13% to 61,372 units as we continue to increase our 
market share. u sed car values recovered strongly during the year and like for like sales of used 
cars increased by 6% with margins also improving. Dealership aftersales delivered strong 
results and benefited from a combination of the consolidation in dealership representation in 
the u K, a trend which we anticipate may continue during 2010, and the managed restructuring 
of market areas and franchise representation within our dealership portfolio. Both these factors 
have increased aftersales revenue and profitability per site, further strengthening our share of 
the aftersales market. 
o ur independent parts division, which provides a significant contribution to group earnings, 
had another excellent year and produced record levels of operating profit in all of the three 
businesses of this division. t he parts division is of particular importance to the group as it 
is not subject to cyclical fluctuations in the new car market. f urthermore, as the national 
market leader in this sector of the market, we are in a strong position to exploit future growth 
opportunities through the introduction of new products and services.
w hilst economic conditions remain uncertain, our strong performance in 2009 demonstrates 
the resilience of the group's businesses which are underpinned by profits generated by 
dealership aftersales and the independent parts division. t his leaves us well positioned to 
continue to trade successfully by outperforming the new car market and developing further 
opportunities from all areas of the business.
financial HiGHli GHTS
t urnover was a similar level to last year at  1.75 billion.  *Adjusted operating profit before 
amortisation, impairment and exceptional items increased to  45.1 million from  33.9 million 
last year.  total exceptional items amounted to  14.2 million, primarily in relation to refinancing 
and restructuring costs. f ollowing significant reductions in working capital, interest costs 
reduced by 15.6% to  16.8 million. *Adjusted profit before tax was  28.3 million compared 
with an *adjusted profit of  14.0 million last year.  *Adjusted earnings per share were 7.32p 
compared to 4.66p last year. n et cash inflow before exceptional items improved to  22.3 
million compared to  7.3 million in 2008. 
cHairMan'S 
Review
Phil White
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
2009 Review
5 6
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Bank facili TieS
As reported in our 2008 Annual Report, on 29 May 2009 we 
agreed terms and conditions with our banking syndicate on new 
facilities of  210 million. w hilst the facilities provide a sound 
financial structure for the group in the medium term, they were 
considerably more expensive and onerous than the previous 
facilities, as a result of the conditions prevalent in the banking 
industry at that time. we therefore, considered alternative 
sources of capital to reduce the additional cost of these bank 
borrowings. o n 26 j une 2009, we announced a fully underwritten 
f irm placing and placing and o pen o ffer to raise gross proceeds 
of  80.7 million ( 77.6 million net of expenses) which facilitated 
significant improvements to the terms under the amended 
banking facility agreement. t he fundraising has strengthened the 
group's financial position, with the net proceeds being used to 
pay down debt and assist in securing more favourable terms on 
the group's banking facilities, as well as providing flexibility for the 
group to pursue its future development strategy. t he fundraising 
received strong support from our existing shareholders and 
also provided the opportunity for several new institutional 
shareholders to participate in the share issue which received 
shareholder approval at the General Meeting held on 22 j uly 
2009.
dividend
A condition of the revised banking agreement is that the group 
will pay no dividends before 30 j une 2010. As a result, the group 
is therefore not in a position to pay a dividend for this financial 
year. h owever, it is the board's intention to return to a progressive 
dividend policy in 2010, within the restrictions placed on the 
group by the terms of the amended banking facility agreement 
and subject to satisfactory trading results.
BOard c Han GeS 
As announced at the Annual General Meeting in j une 2009, 
Ken surgenor retired from his position as c hief executive on 30 
september 2009.  Ken has been with the group for nearly 25 
years and ceo for 8 years and we would like to thank him for his 
hard work and dedication during this time. i am pleased to say 
that Ken remains with the group running the c harles h urst group 
of businesses in n orthern ireland. o n 1 o ctober 2009 peter 
j ones, who was Managing Director of the Motor Division, was 
appointed to the position of Group c hief executive. peter has 
extensive experience of the motor sector and is well qualified to 
lead the company in the next phases of its development. o n 1 
March 2010, as part of a reorganisation of the board, Andy Bruce 
was appointed Managing Director of the Motor Division and 
Brian schumacker stood down from the board. i would like to 
thank Brian for his valuable contribution to the board over the last 
ten years. i am pleased to report that he will be staying with the 
group, although not on the board but in an important new role as 
o perations Director for business development, where he will lead 
the delivery of improved profitability across the group, particularly 
in dealership aftersales.
THe fu Ture
t he breadth of our operations gives the group resilience and 
the flexibility to adapt to changing market conditions to help 
protect profitability.  t he majority of gross profit is generated from 
aftersales and the independent parts division which represent 
60% of gross profit and are not subject to cyclical fluctuations in 
the new car market. 
t he group has been strengthened by the actions taken in the 
Motor Division to reduce costs and close loss making businesses 
and the strong results achieved in 2009 have benefited from 
this. h owever, we will continue to focus on areas where we 
can improve the performance of the group's franchised outlets 
to bring further improvements in profitability. we continue to 
develop the independent parts division with the addition of new 
product lines, improved facilities and investment in systems, all 
of which will bring further increases in profitability. t he successful 
equity raising and negotiation of amended banking facilities 
have strengthened the group's balance sheet, providing greater 
flexibility to ensure that we are well placed and focussed to take 
advantage of strategic growth opportunities that may arise.
t he new year has started well with current trading being ahead 
of both our budget and the prior year. we continue to outperform 
the new car market and trading in the Motor Division is ahead 
of both budget and prior year. t he independent parts division 
continues to perform well and is showing further progress. we 
are therefore confident that the company will emerge from the 
current downturn a stronger and more efficient business which is 
well placed to deliver future growth.
i would like to conclude by thanking all our people at l ookers for 
their hard work and dedication in an exceptionally challenging 
year without whom we would not have been able to deliver such 
an excellent result.
Phil white
c hairman
9 March 2010
2009 Review 7
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
THe Bread TH Of Our OPera TiOnS 
Give S THe Gr OuP re Silience 
and THe flexi Bili TY TO ada PT TO 
c Han Gin G Marke T c Ondi TiOnS TO 
Hel P Pr OTec T Pr Ofi TaBili TY.  
phil white, ch AiRMAn
2009 Review
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
7