 02
Angus & Ross plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Chairman's statement
Despite very difficult market conditions, Angus & Ross 
is making steady progress towards the re-opening of the 
famous Black Angel zinc/lead mine in west Greenland. 
INTRODUCTION
Despite very difficult market conditions, Angus & Ross 
(A&R ) is making steady progress towards the 
re-opening of the famous Black Angel zinc/lead mine 
in west Greenland. This progress is much slower than 
originally hoped largely due to the delays in securing 
project finance. Recently it was decided to delay further 
construction until next year. This decision recognised 
that the field season in Greenland, when construction 
is practical and safe, is now limited. However, in view 
of the low current prices of zinc and lead, the deferment 
of production should not impact the long term value 
of the project.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
The loss for the year amounted to  4,259,213 
(2007:  4,365,404); cash at bank at the year end 
amounted to  2,233,363 (2007:  3,957,526).
OVERVIEW
In July 2007, we concluded the arrangement of a line of 
credit of up to $30 million from Cyrus Capital Partners LP 
and, in May 2008, we were granted a mining licence to 
re-open the Black Angel mine in Greenland. These 
positive events have coincided with a decline in the 
zinc price from $3,500 tonne to the current $1,615, 
one of the severest credit crunches of the last 30 years 
and operating costs rising due mainly to a doubling
of oil prices. In July last year, the Company drew 
down the first tranche of $12.5 million; many of the 
conditions required to enable us to draw down the 
second tranche have been fulfilled but further work 
is required to comply with the remainder. Negotiations 
are continuing to source the balance of the capex finance 
(about $30 million) to enable production to start. 
During the year, the reserves at the Glacier Zone were 
increased following a successful drilling programme so 
that the total JORC standard resource base is now over 
4.4 million tonnes. A Bankable Feasibility Study was 
received in February covering Phase 1 of the Black Angel 
project, namely the extraction of 707,000 tonnes of 
high grade material from the mine itself. Further review 
of the Study by management and technical staff of the 
Company concluded that 1.3 million tonnes could be 
extracted in Phase 1 of the project.
Recently, and with the critical support of its major 
shareholder RAB Capital, the Company completed 
a small equity raising of  3.5 million. 
GRADE
The Black Angel project has one of the highest grade 
and highest quality ores available in the world today. 
1  The satellite telecommunication station in Maarmorilik is powered 
by solar energy.
2 Construction site and camp in Maarmorilik.
3 Construction of the lower terminal of the cable car in progress.
4  The cabins of the cable car leaving Switzerland on their long journey 
to Greenland.
5 Canteen in Maarmorilik at the height of the construction summer.
1
2
3 4
5 03
Angus & Ross plc Annual report and accounts 2008
The area is challenging but has immense potential for 
the discovery of new resources due to the widespread 
occurrence of high grade mineralisation and a new 
structural understanding of the area. 
Much of the ore that Black Angel Mining A/S is planning 
to extract in the early years is graded at over 20% zinc 
and lead combined. This figure compares with the world 
average of all zinc production of 7%.
ZINC PRICE RECOVERY
Most market analysts are predicting a second wave  
of high prices from around 2010/2011 - at a time 
which, all being well, could coincide with the first 
year of full scale production at the Black Angel mine. 
You will see from the Operations Report that the A&R 
team is working on proposals to reduce its operating 
cost base so that it can still achieve target profitability, 
albeit with lower market prices for zinc and lead.
EXPLORATION AND THE DEEP ICE ZONE
The management team has been concentrating 
on the re-opening of the Black Angel mine, and, 
in consequence, no exploration drilling is being 
undertaken this year. Access to the mine via the 
cable car is an important first step in conducting 
exploration in the mine itself. In particular, one of 
the enticing opportunities the Company will then 
have is to inspect the Deep Ice Zone, which is at 
the far end of the mine behind a concrete barrier . 
This was installed by Cominco, the original 
operators of the mine, to control water outflow 
after they had started to extract high grade ore 
from this zone. About 750 metres away, offsetting the 
mined zone and outside the mine, several exploration 
holes were drilled through the ice and came across 
substantial mineralisation. One of these intersected 
6.9 metres of mineralisation with grades of over 
33% of combined zinc and lead. The hope is that 
this mineralisation can be proved to be extensive 
as exploration in that area was not definitive. 
After the granting of the mining licence our 
landholdings at Black Angel consist of 52 sq km 
of the mining licence and 207 sq km of exploration 
licences. As mentioned earlier a significant discovery 
was made in 2006 near the mine at the Glacier Zone 
where an outcrop has developed into a minimum of 
1.7 million tonnes of average combined zinc and lead 
grade of 9.4%. This discovery remains open at depth. 
During the year, Irish zinc specialist consultants 
Aurum were asked to review some of the exploration 
data in the Black Angel area and in summary said, 
The area is challenging but has immense potential 
for the discovery of new resources due to the widespread 
occurrence of high grade mineralisation and a new 
structural understanding of the area. 
Source: Aurum 04
Angus & Ross plc Annual report and accounts 2008
OTHER ASSETS:
MOTZFELDT
It should be remembered that A&R, through 
its subsidiary Greenland Resources Ltd, also 
has important exploration interests at Motzfeldt in 
the south west of Greenland. This is an area which 
according to the Mining Journal (November 2007 
edition, Special Tantalum Supplement) has the 
world's fourth largest tantalum and niobium deposit. 
The deposit also contains some low grade uranium. 
When A&R completed a scoping study in 2003/4, 
no credits were included for either the niobium or 
the uranium. However, with niobium prices increasing 
from about $6/lb to around $18/lb and the current ban 
on uranium exploration being re-considered by the 
Government of Greenland, there is reason to believe 
the Motzfeldt project could be attractive to another 
specialised mining or exploration company.
BRAZIL
All of the Brazilian interests are held by a private, 
62% owned, subsidiary called St Andrews Mining Ltd 
(SAM ). This company has a portfolio of largely gold 
exploration interests and hence requires capital, 
which has been difficult to find in current market 
conditions. Fortunately outside investors have kept 
SAM on a care and maintenance basis whilst all 
options are considered.
AUSTRALIA
A&R own 28% of Queensland Gold and Minerals Ltd, 
which is quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange. 
This company owns a portfolio of mainly Queensland 
located exploration properties and, rather like SAM, 
needs capital to continue exploring. Local management 
is attempting to arrange new finance, which is likely 
to result in dilution of A&R's percentage ownership. 
Again, this historic holding is no longer a core asset 
of A&R and will be sold in due course.
CHANGES OF DIRECTORS, MANAGEMENT
AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS
Towards the end of 2007 your Board instituted several 
changes in personnel and advisers in preparation for 
the changes that are inevitable and necessary when 
an exploration company takes on the challenge of 
putting a mine into production.
In particular, the Company welcomed Mr Nicholas Hall 
onto the Board to relieve me, as Chairman, of my 
role as Chief Executive Officer. Mr Hall trained as an 
accountant before working in the mining industry with 
Chairman's statement continued
1  Nicholas Hall, the Chief Executive Officer of Angus & Ross plc, shows 
the 30-year mining licence granted by the Greenlandic Government 
in May 2008.
2 View of Uummannaq harbour, 70km from the Black Angel mine.
3  During the mining licence signing ceremony in Uummannaq on 
19 May 2008: (from left) Jens-Lars Fleischer, the Mayor of Uummannaq; 
Nicholas Hall, Chief Executive Officer of Angus & Ross plc; Kim Kielsen, 
the Minister of Natural Resources of Greenland.
4  Directors of Angus & Ross plc and Black Angel Mining A/S at a public 
meeting in Uummannaq: (from right): Tim Daffern, Jens-Oluf Lundgren, 
Jonas Nielsen.
Towards the end of 2007 your Board instituted several 
changes in personnel and advisers in preparation for 
the changes that are inevitable and necessary when an 
exploration company takes on the challenge of putting 
a mine into production. 
12 3
4 05
Angus & Ross plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Rand London Ltd in South Africa, Geevor in the UK 
and PBS Coals Inc. in the USA.
Another important appointment was that of 
Mr Tim Daffern as Director of Mining and Exploration. 
Mr Daffern is a Chartered Mining Engineer and, for 
the last four years, had worked as Technical Director 
with Wardell Armstrong International Ltd, who carried 
out the work on the Bankable Feasibility Study for the 
Black Angel mine.
We were also pleased to welcome Mr Chris Innis 
as a Non-executive Director. Mr Innis was formerly a 
corporate financier with Hambros Bank, an owner of 
the Mining Journal and a Director of AIM Resources. 
His experience is particularly relevant to A&R as the 
Company works through this period of change.
On behalf of the Company, I would also like to 
express my grateful thanks to Mr Richard Burt 
and Mr Malcolm Swallow, both of whom retired 
as Non-executive Directors on 1 February 2008. 
The contribution they both made was invaluable.
In November 2007 the Company also appointed 
Fox-Davies Capital as brokers while retaining the 
services of Landsbanki Securities as nominated adviser .
THE FUTURE
We are now a company with a mining licence to 
re-open an historically rich zinc mine in a politically 
stable area of the world. Currently the share price 
reflects neither the mine's profit potential nor the
exploration potential of the area. I expect this to be 
remedied, at least in part, when full project financing
is confirmed.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all the Board, the 
management and staff who have, together, coped with 
significant changes in the Company and its organisation. 
I appreciate it has also been a disappointing year for 
shareholders but despite the uncertainties in financial 
markets, we are confident that the Black Angel mine, 
with its high grade ore and its potential to host other 
rich deposits, will prove to be an attractive investment. 
ROBIN ANDREWS
Chairman
29 August 2008
...we are confident that the Black Angel mine, with 
its high grade ore and its potential to host other rich 
deposits, will prove to be an attractive investment. 