 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 1
Chairman's Statement
Dear Shareholder,
The financial year ending 31 December 2004 was 
an eventful one for your company. In early 2004, 
I personally invested several million pounds in the
shares of Lupus. This was quickly followed by 
the appointment of Denis Mulhall as a director who,
also, made a significant investment into Lupus 
share ownership. Operational management was
reorganised, incentive schemes installed and a
mergers and acquisitions function added. The balance
sheet and share premium account were restructured
by means of a capital reorganisation in order to allow
the continuation of the payment of dividends. All
these were achieved through a series of Extraordinary
General Meetings supported by full documentation
for the approval of shareholders.
Our trading results have been good, however
acquisition progress has been frustrating. We have
been involved in numerous potential purchases and
bids, but none so far have been consummated.
While it has been tempting to succumb to short term
opportunities for the sake of being seen to be active,
we have managed to resist buying anything that would
not be in the long term interests of shareholders.
Patience and value have to be our watchwords if we
are determined to build up Lupus into a major
industrial concern. We continue to be diligent and
resolute on making value producing acquisitions.
I would like to thank our non-executive directors, 
Mr Fred Hoad (our lead non-executive director), 
Mr Roland Tate and Mr Konrad Legg (who retired
from the Board on 17 January 2005) for all their 
wise advice and patience in dealing with the many
complicated issues.
Results for the year
Our financial results for the year to 31 December
2004 were good.
Adjusted pre-tax profits were  2,974,000 (2003:
 2,848,000) before goodwill, the lesot charge and
exceptional items. After tax, this translates into
earnings per share of 0.94p (2003: 1.20p) out of
which we are paying a total full year dividend of 0.39p
net (2003: 0.37p). Gall Thomson Environmental
Limited, our main subsidiary, performed well
increasing profits by 4.0%.
The reported Group pre-tax result for the year was 
a  5,790,000 loss (2003: profit  1,908,000), after
taking  740,000 of goodwill, exceptional charges 
of  1,309,000 and a  6,715,000 non-cash lesot
charge. After tax, this translates into a loss per share
of 2.82p (2003: profit 0.65p).
Dividend
The cash generation of your company is excellent
and the Board is recommending a full year dividend
increase of just over 5%. This means a final dividend
of 0.264p per share (2003: 0.25p per share) making
the total for the year ending 31 December 2004 of
0.39p (2003: 0.37p per share).
Employees
I would like to thank, on behalf of all shareholders, 
all our employees for the hard work and dedication
shown over what has been a transforming few years.
Background
I together with Denis Mulhall, with whom I worked at
Tomkins plc, made a significant personal investment
into Lupus in order to develop it into a much bigger
international company. We chose Lupus for a
number of reasons: 
  The existing non-executives and their advisers had 
reorganised and rationalised the Group, leaving it 
free of any debts;
  As can be seen from the financial results, Lupus 
produces good figures and continues to 
demonstrate underlying reliability of earnings; 
  Gall Thomson Environmental Limited has growth 
potential;
  The reliable cash generation provides a sound 
base for paying dividends; and
  Unlike many listed companies, there is no pension 
deficit as only defined contributions schemes are
in use.
Strategy
Our strategy is to build shareholder value through 
the acquisition of undervalued or under-managed
businesses, using a spectrum of funding instruments,
where with the application of our management skills
and systems we can achieve greater profitability.
Once they have been improved and potential 
long-term growth configurations installed, we 
would expect to realise a gain through a variety of
exit mechanisms.
Our strategy is very similar to that which we developed
at Tomkins plc, with one key exception. Institutional
investors in the public markets are not sympathetic
to public conglomerate organisations; they have,
however, even though with very diverse interests,
favoured private equity structures. We intend to
follow private equity principles with investment exits by
demergers or sale and cash returns to shareholders
when appropriate.
   2,974,000 adjusted pre-tax profits
  4.4% increase on prior year Annual Report and Accounts 2004 2
The speed and management experience we possess
together with the flexibility of being able to offer an
on-going interest should give us a competitive edge
over private equity competitors. In addition, we have
proven management skills and systems, as well as
the application of financial modelling.
Our approach to sectors will be very disciplined and
with a clear focus. Target companies will be involved
in industrial manufacturing, processing or services or
distribution for industries, businesses or consumers.
Retailing, financial services, property and media are
outside our range. Our key requirements are asset
based, positive cash flow, under-valued or under-
managed, but not loss making, companies. 
In addition we will target fragmented industries, 
seek consolidations, as well as develop organic
growth opportunities.
We will choose to operate in stable markets where the
technology is low-risk rather than markets exposed
to quick innovation and sudden obsolescence. 
We prefer to sell high quantities of inexpensive items
or fulfil a high volume of contracts as opposed to a
small number of very significant cost constituents.
We expect to inject our management skills, operating
systems, financial control mechanisms and strategy
experience to improve profitability and financial
efficiency.
Our industrial focus and business experience of
acquiring, stabilising, controlling, investing in and
developing businesses, together with a strong existing
operation gives Lupus Capital plc exciting prospects.
Current status
Shareholders will know that Lupus Capital plc is
listed on the London Stock Exchange and classified
for historical reasons under Speciality and Other
Finance . We intend to remain with this until such
time as the composition of the Group changes,
when a more appropriate sector will be selected. 
As of the end of March 2005 our market capitalisation
was approximately  31.5m. Gall Thomson
Environmental Limited, which is our main operating
company, will be retained within the Group.
Chairman's Statement continued
...very disciplined with 
a clear focus...
...defined strategy, a 
sound balance sheet, 
good operating activities... Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
   1,552,000 cash generated
  dividends increase 5.4%
Business of Gall Thomson Environmental
Gall Thomson Environmental Limited is the world's
leading supplier of marine breakaway couplings. 
Its subsidiary, KLAW Products Limited, is a supplier
of industrial couplings including quick release
couplings and breakaway couplings.
A Gall Thomson marine breakaway coupling is used
in the oil and gas industry to enable a loading line 
to part safely and then to shut off the product supply
in the event of a vessel moving off station during the
loading or discharging of oil and gas products,
whether at offshore moorings or jetty terminals. 
The purpose of the breakaway coupling is to prevent
environmental pollution and damage to pumping 
and transfer equipment. Gall Thomson Environmental
Limited also supplies the quick release Welin Lambie
camlock coupling which is used in the hose and
loading arm system for the transfer of oil and 
gas products.
The greater number of our couplings are designed
and made to order for the major oil producers. 
Stock and working capital levels are thus easily
visible. There is also an increasing demand for
refurbishment of our products which have been in
use for many years and exposed to the elements.
The excellence of the couplings and their technology
together with the huge environmental and financial
consequences of risking less established products
gives Gall Thomson Environmental Limited a
significant advantage and strong market share. 
The principal activity of KLAW Products Limited is
that of the manufacture, assembly and distribution of
industrial quick release couplings to the oil and gas
industries, such as refining, exploration and construction.
They are also used in the transportation of product
by road and rail.
Outlook
Gall Thomson Environmental Limited is a reliable
business and looks forward to continued success.
There are opportunities in most areas of the world
due to an increase in world floating production
systems, as well as the traditional Single Point
Mooring business. The drive to exploration in deeper
waters (greater than 1,000 metres) which require off
loading techniques as opposed to pipeline
infrastructure, provides a sound basis for the Gall
Thomson Environmental Limited business in the
short and long term. KLAW Products Limited has
started the year well. During recent years new
products have been developed, which, together with
the existing range and having become CE markings
approved, are generating higher sales and increasing
market penetration.
The foundations of the Group are strong. We have 
a defined strategy, a sound balance sheet, good
operating activities generating cash and an
enthusiastic entrepreneurial management team
ambitious to drive Lupus Capital plc forward. I am
confident that we have the right platform to deliver
value for shareholders.
Greg Hutchings
Chairman
26 May 2005