 LUPUS CAPITAL plc
...the last year
was a very
constructive
time of change
for your
Company.
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report that the last year was a very
constructive time of change for your Company. Earlier
this calendar year I was appointed executive chairman
and Denis Mulhall also joined the board as an executive
director. We would like to thank Konrad Legg, your
previous non-executive chairman, as well as Fred Hoad
and Roland Tate, for all their good work and we are
grateful to them for remaining non-executive directors
on the Board.
Results for the year
Our financial results for the year to 31 December 2003
were good. 
Adjusted pre-tax profits were  2,848,000
(2002:  1,637,000) before goodwill, exceptional items and
the final investment activity loss. After tax, this
translates into earnings per share of 1.20p
(2002:  0.67p) out of which we are paying a total full year
dividend of 0.37p net (2002: 0.62p). Gall Thomson
Environmental, our main subsidiary, performed well
despite the slow down in orders due to the conflict
in Iraq. 
Pre-tax profits for the year were  1,908,000 (2002: loss
 1,361,000), after  740,000 of goodwill and the final loss
on investment activities of
 200,000, which translates into
earnings per share of 0.65p (2002:
loss 0.89p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a
final dividend of 0.25p per share
(2002: 0.50p per share) making
the total for the year ending 31 December 2003 of 0.37p
per share (2002: 0.62p per share). As shareholders are
aware the structure and strategy of the Company have
changed significantly. The Board has rebased the
dividend, which is expected to be paid in July, back to
the level of the year before last. As explained in note 25
the Company is to seek shareholder and Court approval
regarding a capital reorganisation to enable this
payment. 
3
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Adjusted pre tax
profits ... 2,848,000
...translates into
earnings per 
share 1.20p
...dividends of 0.37p 4
LUPUS CAPITAL plc
Employees
I would like to thank, on behalf of all shareholders, all
our employees for the hard work and dedication shown
over what has been a difficult and changing few years.
Background
In January and February 2004 I personally invested
 2,137,500 in the shares of the Company as I felt it was
an excellent base from which to build a major industrial
enterprise. Denis Mulhall, with whom I worked at
Tomkins PLC, has also invested  252,000 personally.
We chose Lupus for a number of reasons:  
 
The existing non-executives and their advisors had
reorganised and rationalised the Group, leaving it
free of any debts;
 
As can be seen from the 2003 results, Lupus
produced good financial results and continues to
demonstrate underlying reliability of earnings;  
 
Gall Thomson Environmental has growth potential;
 
The reliable cash generation provides a sound base
for paying dividends; and
 
Unlike many listed companies, there is no pension
deficit as only defined contributions schemes are
in use.
Strategy
Our strategy is to build
shareholder value through the
acquisition of undervalued or
under-managed businesses,
using a spectrum of funding
instruments, where with the
application of our management skills and systems we
can achieve greater profitability. Once they have been
improved and potential long-term growth
configurations installed, we would expect to realise a
gain through a variety of exit mechanisms.
Our strategy is very similar to that which we developed
at Tomkins PLC, with one key exception. Institutional
investors in the public markets are not sympathetic to
public conglomerate organisations; they have, however,
even though with very diverse interests, favoured private
equity structures. We intend to follow private equity
principles with investment exits by demergers or sale
and cash returns to shareholders when appropriate.
The speed and management experience we possess
together with the flexibility of being able to offer an on-
going interest should give us a competitive edge over
private equity competitors. In addition, we have proven
management skills and systems, as well as the
application of financial modelling.
Our approach to sectors will be very disciplined and
with a clear focus. Target companies will be involved in
industrial manufacturing, processing or services or
distribution for industries, businesses or consumers.
Retailing, financial services, property and media are
outside our range. Our key requirements are asset
based, positive cash flow, UK-centric, under-valued or
under-managed, but not loss making, companies. In
addition we will target fragmented industries, seek
consolidations, as well as develop organic growth
opportunities.
We will choose to operate in stable markets where the
technology is low-risk rather than markets exposed to
quick innovation and sudden obsolescence. We prefer
to sell high quantities of inexpensive items or fulfil a
high volume of contracts as opposed to a small number
of very significant cost constituents.
We expect to inject our management skills, operating
systems, financial control mechanisms and strategy
experience to improve profitability and financial
efficiency.
Our industrial focus and business experience of
acquiring, stabilising, controlling, investing in and
developing businesses, together with a strong existing
operation gives Lupus Capital plc exciting prospects.
Current status
Shareholders will know that
Lupus Capital plc is listed on
the London Stock Exchange
and classified for historical
reasons under Speciality and
Other Finance . We intend to remain with this until such
time as the composition of the Group changes, when a
more appropriate sector will be selected. As of the end
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT continued
We expect to inject
our management
skills, operating
systems, financial
control mechanisms ...
Our approach to
sectors will be very
disciplined and with
a clear focus. 5
of March 2004 our market capitalisation was
approximately  40 million. Gall Thomson Environmental
Ltd., which is our main operating company, will be
retained within the Group.
Business of Gall Thomson Environmental
Gall Thomson Environmental Ltd. is the world's leading
supplier of marine breakaway couplings. Its subsidiary,
KLAW Products Ltd., is a supplier of industrial
couplings including quick release
couplings and breakaway couplings.
A Gall Thomson marine breakaway
coupling is used in the oil and gas
industry to enable a loading line to part
safely and then to shut off the product
supply in the event of a vessel moving off station during
the loading or discharging of oil and gas products,
whether at offshore moorings or jetty terminals. The
purpose of the breakaway coupling is to prevent
environmental pollution and damage to pumping and
transfer equipment. Gall Thomson Environmental also
supplies the quick release Welin Lambie camlock
coupling which is used in the hose and loading arm
system for the transfer of oil and gas products.
The greater number of our couplings are designed and
made for the major oil producers to order. Stock and
working capital levels are thus easily visible. There is
also an increasing demand for refurbishment of our
products which have been in use for many years and
exposed to the elements. The excellence of the
couplings and their technology together with the huge
environmental and financial consequences of risking
less established products gives Gall Thomson
Environmental a significant advantage and strong
market share. 
The principal activity of KLAW Products Ltd is that of
the manufacture, assembly and distribution of
industrial quick release couplings to the oil and gas
industries, such as refining, exploration and
construction. They are also used in the transportation
of product by road and rail.
Outlook
Gall Thomson Environmental has started 2004 with a
steady order book and looks forward to continued
success. There are opportunities in most areas of the
world due to an increase in world floating production
systems, as well as the traditional Single Point Mooring
business. The drive to exploration in deeper waters
(greater than 1,000 metres) which require off loading
techniques as opposed to pipeline infrastructure,
provides a sound basis for the Gall Thomson
Environmental business in the short and long term.
KLAW has started the year well and has
become CE markings approved. During
2002 and 2003 new products were
developed, which, together with the
existing range, are expected to generate
higher sales. Additional personnel are
being employed to increase market penetration.
The important structural changes in the Group have
now taken place. We have a clear strategy, a sound
balance sheet, good operating activities and an
enthusiastic entrepreneurial management team
ambitious to drive Lupus Capital plc forward. I am
confident that we have the right platform to deliver
further value for shareholders.
Greg Hutchings
Executive Chairman
22 April 2004
LUPUS CAPITAL plc
We have a clear
strategy, a sound
balance sheet, good
operating activities