 4 ANITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Chairman's statement
Anite is an international IT company that
provides software, systems integration,
consultancy and managed services across the
travel, telecoms, finance and public sector
markets. Headquartered in the UK, the Group
employs around 1,800 staff in 12 countries
across Europe, America and Asia. Anite
solutions are recognised as market leaders 
in their fields:
 
the top ten global mobile phone handset
manufacturers all use Anite testing
technology;
 
three out of four UK local authorities use
Anite applications;
 
over 40% of UK package holiday
bookings were made using Anite systems
last year.
A YEAR OF CONSOLIDATION
Following the significant period of transition
undergone in 2003, the year under review
was one of major consolidation. Following
the appointment of Steve Rowley as Chief
Executive with effect from 3 November 2003,
the Board set him three principal tasks:
 
to continue the consolidation, integration
and cost-cutting initiatives;
 
to focus on invigorating Anite's sales and
marketing activities; and
 
to conduct a review of the opportunities
and potential of the businesses that
constitute Anite.
Considerable progress has been made 
during the year in resolving legacy issues 
and setting the Group in motion for an
improvement in its performance. This is
evidenced today by a growing order book
and an evolving strategy on the back of a
lower cost base, strong cash flow, reduced
debt and a business that is in much better
shape. Most of Anite's businesses are now
performing satisfactorily and the recovery 
in Public Sector continues in line with plan,
excluding the State of Victoria contract.
In line with the Board's expectations at the
time of the Group's interim results in
December 2003, underlying second-half
performance improved compared to the first
half and the same period last year. Cash
management was well ahead of expectations
after making earnout payments, in part
having benefited from one-off credits and
working capital improvements. Restructuring
and other one-off costs, however, were
substantially higher than expected, principally
due to provisions made against both Pericles
and the State of Victoria contract. The
benefits of cost cutting came through
strongly as anticipated and order intake
began to improve in parts of the Group.
RESULTS
Underlying profits before tax (of ongoing
businesses, before exceptional items and
restructuring costs, amortisation and
impairment of goodwill and before utilisation
of contract provisions) fell to  15.7m (2003:
 18.2m). Profits benefited from lower
interest charges and corporate costs but
reflected mixed performances in Anite's
businesses. Public Sector's performance 
was turned round from first-half losses to 
a second-half profit, but International's
profits declined significantly and Travel profits
fell. However, both Travel and Telecoms
improved their margins on lower sales.
Operating profits for the ongoing businesses
(before goodwill and exceptional items and
before utilisation of provisions) fell to
 17.2m (2003:  20.6m) and operating
margins were 9.2% (2003: 10.3%).
The reduced reported pre-tax loss (after
amortisation and exceptional items) of
 28.8m (2003:  112.5m) benefited from
much lower impairment charges than last
year (when a major review of goodwill
relating to past acquisitions was undertaken).
This year's review of goodwill relating to past
acquisitions resulted in a total impairment
charge of  18.5m (2003:  74.7m) being
included in these results, whilst goodwill
amortisation was  16.6m (2003:  24.3m).
 8.8m of the impairment charge was
reported at the half year (relating to
International) and a full-year review resulted
in a further addition of  3.8m relating to the
acquisition of Pericles from ICL in 2001 and
further impairment of  5.9m relating to
International. Exceptional items totalling
 20.0m related to provisions against onerous
contracts, redundancy costs and other 
write offs. These costs included additional
provisions for onerous loss-making contracts,
made up of a new provision of  4.0m, which
was booked against Pericles' development 
to be utilised over the next 18 months, and
an additional provision of  10.2m against
the State of Victoria development contract,
making a total of  12.7m, of which  4.3m
has been utilised, with the remainder to be
utilised over the next four years. We are
confident that we have identified all material
legacy issues and have provided adequately
for their resolution.
Adjusted underlying basic earnings per share
(ongoing businesses, before goodwill
amortisation, exceptional items and before
utilisation of contract provision) were 3.2p
(2003: 4.3p). Total loss per share after
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was 8.6p (2003: loss per share 34.2p).
Turnover (of ongoing businesses) having
fallen 10% in the first half, largely due to
tough trading conditions in Travel and
International, was flat in the second half
compared to last year. Public Sector and
Telecoms broadly held their revenues for the
year as a whole. The Group's order intake
totalled  206.0m, up 4% compared with last
year giving a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1, which
has resulted in our annualised managed
The year under review was one of major consolidation;
considerable progress was made in resolving legacy 
issues and in setting the Group in motion for a return 
to profitability. ANITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 5
have largely resolved this long-running
concern during the year, paying out less than
expected in the process. These earnouts
resulted from the Group's rapid expansion by
acquisition between 1998 and 2002.
THE BOARD
As previously announced, major board
changes during the year have strengthened
the Group's management. Steve Rowley
joined as our new Chief Executive on 
3 November 2003. Steve had most recently
served as a Senior Vice President and General
Manager at PeopleSoft Europe. He offers the
right skill-set for Anite's future development
and is bringing his extensive international
management experience to bear on the
Group.
Progress is being made in terms of the
Group's succession planning, with the
appointment of new Non-Executive Directors
a priority. We therefore announced on 
28 May 2004 the appointment of Peter
Bertram as a Non-Executive Director.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Azlan
Group plc between 1998-2003. We also
announced on that day that David Thorpe 
is standing down on 1 August 2004, due to
a significant new commitment. We are very
grateful to David Thorpe for his important
contribution to Anite's transition and
consolidation during the last two years 
and for his excellent stewardship during 
the interim period prior to Steve Rowley's
appointment, and wish him well in his 
new venture. Equally, we welcome Peter
Bertram who brings significant public
company experience in our sector, having
successfully turned around Azlan and
delivered shareholder value.
We also announced at the AGM in
September 2003 that following the new
Chief Executive's appointment, and assuming
that continuing progress is made by the
Group in 2004, that I will stand down and
my successor will be identified in due course.
To that end the Board will be further
strengthened during the Group's current
financial year and succession plans
announced around the time of the 2004 AGM.
services and support revenues increasing
from 20.4% to 24.4% of total ongoing
revenues.
Strong cash generation, a characteristic of
Anite's business, has enabled the Group to
pay out  11.0m of acquisition and earnout
commitments whilst keeping well within 
its total banking facilities, which were
renegotiated on satisfactory terms during 
the year. Including the benefit of  3.0m of
one-off cash receipts and reflecting good
conversion of underlying operating profits
into cash, year-end net debt of  16.3m at 
30 April 2003 was transformed into year-end
net funds of  5.0m at 30 April 2004 (31 Oct
2003: net debt  10.8m). Net interest payable,
before exceptional foreign exchange gain, fell
from  2.4m to  1.6m and was over 13 times
covered by underlying operating profits
before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals.
During the year there was a net headcount
reduction in the UK of around 160 (ongoing
businesses), at a cost of  4.3m included in the
exceptional items, which delivered significant
annualised cost savings during the year.
DISPOSALS
During the current year, we reviewed certain
peripheral, non-material businesses, either 
by geography or vertical market, and have
considered disposing of some of these.
We will continue to review the fit of the
Group's businesses in the current year as part
of the Board's strategic review.
Following the interim results, we announced
in December 2003 the disposal of Anite
Benelux, a Netherlands-based IT consultancy,
in line with this strategy for a total
consideration of  1.08m (u1.5m), following
payment of a dividend of  1.2m (u1.7m).
Benelux's results are shown as a disposed
activity in these results. It employed 164 staff
out of a total of over 700 in Anite's
International consultancy division.
EARNOUTS
We paid out  11.0m of cash earnouts and
 8.2m of share earnout settlements for the
year as a whole. Remaining earnout payments
total  8.2m in cash/loan notes and  0.8m 
in shares, of which  1.0m is dependent on
earnout targets being achieved. Thus we
PEOPLE
On behalf of the Board I would like to 
thank all employees for their contribution,
hard work and support during this year of
significant change.
DIVIDEND POLICY
Following resolution of the earnout
commitments and reflecting the Group's strong
cash flow and the considerable reduction in
the Group's debt, it will be appropriate to
review our dividend policy in the current
financial year in light of future prospects.
SUMMARY
The year under review has been one 
of consolidation. Considerable progress 
has been made in resolving legacy issues 
and setting the Group in motion for an
improvement in its performance. This is
evidenced today by a growing order book
and an evolving strategy on the back of a
lower cost base, strong cash flow, reduced
debt and a business that is in much better
shape.
Indeed, most of Anite's businesses are now
performing satisfactorily and the recovery in
Public Sector continues in line with plan. The
current financial year has started well with
trading ahead of the same period last year.
As a result the Board remains cautiously
optimistic about Anite's future prospects.
A further update on the Group's progress will
be provided at the Annual General Meeting
on 28 September 2004.
Alec Daly Chairman