 This has been an eventful year of transformation for your Company. The Company completed the acquisition of Manroy 
Systems Limited financed by a  6.0 million share placing at 75p a share. We changed our name from Hurlingham Plc to 
Manroy Plc and the Company's shares were re-admitted to AIM. We also completed the acquisition of AEI and a 49% interest 
in MUSA and raised a further  3 million via a share placing at 95p per share. I am pleased to report that this transformation 
has gone well.
Group revenue for the year ended 30 September 2011 amounted to  7.9 million and produced a pre-tax profit of  
 2.2 million. This was after recording  1.1 million of costs associated with our successful corporate acquisitions, the 
AIM admission and the fund raisings,  0.8 million of amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions and a credit 
amounting to  2.5 million of negative goodwill. There are no directly comparable figures for the previous period as the 
Hurlingham business within the Group was effectively that of a cash shell. Earnings per share were 18p for the year ended  
30 September 2011, up from a loss of 9.4p per share last year, and the earnings this year also reflect the increased number 
of shares now in issue. 
In light of these positive results for the year ended 30 September 2011, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 1p per share 
payable to shareholders on the register on 10 February 2012, excluding those shares issued in August 2011 which did not 
rank for the dividend. This final dividend, together with the 1p per share interim dividend already paid, takes the total to 2p 
per share for the year and will be payable on 11 April 2012.
Shareholders should be aware that the Group's results only include a nine month contribution from Manroy Systems since 
its takeover was completed in December 2010, but we have also included 12 month information for Manroy Systems so that 
shareholders can appreciate the full extent of our operations.
Chairman's statement
For the year ended 30 September 2011, Manroy Systems generated total revenue of  11.0 million and produced  
 2.7 million of pre-tax profits, against revenue of  12.3 million and pre-tax profits of  2.8 million for the comparable year to 
30 September 2010. Recognising the adverse economic backdrop throughout the 2010/11 financial year, this augurs well for 
the future. The reduction in revenue in comparison to the previous year should be viewed in the context of the unusual trading 
conditions in some of Manroy's overseas markets. In particular, the Arab Spring  brought considerable and well documented 
unrest to parts of North Africa and the Middle East. Its effect has been to slow the business process as international and 
regional attention has understandably been focussed on addressing the unrest in a co-ordinated and constructive manner. 
Several large orders have been on hold for some time, although we expect to secure these contracts together with the 
necessary UK Government export licences over the course of the current financial year. It is also important to highlight that 
the Group has not lost any business in this region as a consequence of the unrest. 
4 Manroy PLC
Manroy M2 HMG Receiver in production In addition, the Group has never undertaken arms sales to any embargoed countries and prides itself in being a key supplier 
to the UK MoD for over 26 years. Manroy adheres strictly to UK legislation concerning the sale of armaments and weapons 
to foreign countries and governments and where the Group sells its products overseas, such sales are undertaken in 
strict adherence to UK Government export regulations and approvals, and are only undertaken after all appropriate UK 
Government licences have been granted. 
The corporate activity already referred to was also aimed at strengthening the Board and senior management team, and 
secured a number of new contract wins. We have also increased distributable reserves by  12 million following our capital 
reconstruction in September 2011, with a further  1.4 million being allocated to merger reserve.
As part of Manroy's growth plans we recognised the importance of expanding the Board and the senior management team. In 
addition to Glyn Bottomley and Paul Carter being appointed Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively on completion 
of the acquisition of Manroy Systems in December 2010, two non-executives - Gerry Clark and Brian O'Donnell - joined 
the Board in February 2011. We are pleased to have their additional expertise available to the Group. Further key senior 
operational directors have also been appointed demonstrating the Company's commitment to its ongoing development.
In addition to the  6.0 million share placing in December 2010, we issued 2.1m shares in August 2011 to acquire a 49% 
interest in Manroy USA LLC (MUSA ) and raised a further  3.0 million to fund our 49% share of the acquisition by MUSA 
of the assets of Sabre Defence Industries (Sabre ) The importance of the MUSA acquisition should not be under estimated 
as it gives the Group a direct presence in the world's largest defence market. 
Sabre was previously a direct competitor of MUSA. It manufactured the M2 HMG, Quick Change Barrel kits and M2 parts 
and had production capability for a range of M4, M5 and M16 rifles. In addition there were $10.2 million ( 6.3 million) of 
outstanding US Department of Defense contracts within Sabre which are being novated to MUSA. The increased business 
that will arise from the novation together with forecast business volumes required a larger production facility which MUSA 
completed through the acquisition of new freehold premises in Spindale, North Carolina. Due to the highly complex 
regulations associated with the MUSA business this has necessitated a new application process for these novations which is 
expected to complete in the first quarter of 2012 with the commercial benefits starting to accrue in the current financial year. 
The other key acquisition completed during the year was the business and assets of AEI, a UK based designer and producer 
of weapon mounting systems, for an initial cash payment of  250,000, together with a two year earn out to be paid from 
 Report & Financial Statements 5
M2 HMG Receiver the profits earned by the AEI business. This was a synergistic acquisition as Manroy and AEI have a common customer base 
and have regularly worked together to provide customers with complete solutions. AEI also brought a highly sophisticated 
design capability to the Group, which is already enabling Manroy to create tailor-made products for certain customers at an 
enhanced profit margin.
While it has been an extremely active period corporately, I am also pleased to report that the underlying business has also 
made significant progress. The MoD continues to be Manroy's leading customer but our reliance on it is lessening as new 
markets and customers are being opened up by the Group. Already, revenue from the MoD has been reduced from 93% of 
total orders in 2010 to 65%, reflecting our broader customer base.
Clearly the strategically important acquisition of MUSA will play a large part in our ability to access the US market which is 
the world's largest defence market. In addition to this, the Group's increased product range, which now includes the 7.62mm 
GPMG and weapons solutions through AEI, is increasingly attractive to a wider customer market.
During the period under review we secured three significant MoD contracts, including a five year  4.1 million blank ammunition 
contract which we believe will lead to an expanded role in this area of supply. The other two contracts were for a  1.6 million 
spare parts order and a three year technical support programme. Our business relations with the MoD are extremely good 
and we are in continual dialogue with key procurement personnel which enable us to work with the Ministry to ensure that 
future contracts continue be sourced and fulfilled on budget.
Not only has the year under review been transformational for Manroy it has also enabled the Group to develop and expand 
both its product range and its customer base. As with any company embarking on such expansion, there are some growing 
pains as certain elements of the business take longer to commence full production than planned, and also reflect the current 
market conditions and prevailing political climate, both of which can affect the growth of our business. Nevertheless, the 
Board is confident of the future prospects of the Group.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all staff across the Group for their contribution to a very busy and 
rewarding year. We have the team in place to take the business forwards and this puts the Group in a strong position as we 
continue to expand its sphere of operations.
The Group has come a long way in a very short time and the Board is confident that it will achieve its objective of becoming 
a highly regarded defence contractor in its specialised fields. The Board is firmly of the view that we have all the building 
blocks in place to further develop and grow the business both internationally and in the domestic market. While the current 
economic and political climate makes us cautious, we are optimistic that, over the next two years and thereafter, Manroy will 
continue to expand both here and abroad.
Andrew Blurton
Chairman
 
2 February 2012
Chairman's statement continued
6 Manroy PLC
Manroy blank firing system in training for 
London 2012 Olympic security ODIN Turret supplied to MoD for 
Urgent Operational Requirement
The addition of the AEI product range to Manroy's existing product range allows Manroy to 
offer a complete system solution to customers, which can include mountings and turrets in 
addition to weapons.
 Report & Financial Statements 7