 A year of progress
In the last year we have continued to reduce
our overheads, improve our gross margin and
reduce our debts. We have invested in new
product development and enhanced our
existing product portfolio. We have completed
the sale of further non-core assets. We ended
the financial year a much stronger company
than twelve months ago.
Marconi Corporation plc, which started its 
new life with its re-listing on 19 May 2003,
recorded its first operating profit (before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items)
(1)
in the last quarter of the financial year. In the
year under review, the Group generated
significant levels of operating cash flow before
exceptional items
(2)
and raised further monies
from the sale of further non-core businesses.
These factors combined with the financial
restructuring to ensure that the Group's
balance sheet continued to strengthen, and
we ended the year with  214 million more
cash than debt.
Our markets are still difficult, but the steep
decline the industry experienced in the
previous two years has slowed over the last 
12 months. We saw our first quarter-on-quarter
improvement in sales from Continuing
Operations in the second quarter of the year
under review and continued to see modest
quarter-on-quarter growth for the remainder 
of the year. The world markets for our products
and services have stabilised as many of the
telecommunications operators have
strengthened their own financial positions. 
Our products and services 
As telecommunications operators look to
establish new revenue streams by adding
more features delivered through broadband,
there is a compelling case for them to invest 
in next-generation networks. Marconi is well
placed to benefit from this as we continue 
to develop and bring to market 
leading-edge products.
Sales of our multifunctional Access Hub 
have helped us gain a rapidly growing 
market share in the European Access market.
Our continued investment in our SoftSwitch
product line, which helps operators evolve their
circuit-based networks into Internet Protocol
networks, also strengthens our presence in the
next-generation network space. Our US based
broadband business has continued to develop
its very high capacity equipment for mission
critical networks. We have also made further
progress within our traditional area of strength in
high capacity optical transmission technology,
where we have enhanced our product line with
increased data carrying capabilities. 
Marconi also has an important services
business that, as in previous years, accounted
for close to 40% of revenues in 2003-04. 
As our customers put increased emphasis 
on operating cost efficiencies, we are able to
offer them services beyond the traditional
installation, commissioning and maintenance.
During the year we won significant services
contracts from both telecommunications
operators and business customers. As a
proportion of our overall business, our services
offering is larger and better established than
many of our competitors, we will continue to
leverage this advantage.
Chairman's statement
2
The first year since the completion of the Group' s financial
restructuring has been a year of progress. 
(1) see page 14.
(2) see page 50. Board changes 
There have been three changes to the
composition of your Board since the
completion of the financial restructuring. 
In July 2003, we announced that Pavi Binning
was joining us as Chief Financial Officer taking
over from Chris Holden who had held the
position on an interim basis. Pavi joined the
Board in October 2003 from Diageo plc where
he had worked since 1986. 
In August last year we announced that
Douglas McWilliams, the founder and 
Chief Executive of the Centre for Economics
and Business Research (cebr), would be
joining the Board as a non-executive director
following the annual general meeting in
September 2003. Prior to founding cebr 
in 1993, Douglas spent four years as 
chief economic adviser to the Confederation
of British Industry.
In January this year, we announced that 
Ian Clubb, who had joined the Board at the
time of the completion of the restructuring,
was stepping down for personal reasons. 
We conducted a search for a new non-
executive director to replace Ian and on 
6 May 2004 announced that Peter Hickson
was joining the Board. A former Group
Finance Director of both Powergen plc and
MAI plc, and currently Chairman of AWG plc,
Peter has over thirty years of industrial
experience and will be a great asset to 
our Board.
During the last year Kent Atkinson was
appointed Senior Independent Director in
compliance with the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance.
I am delighted with the way that the new
Board is working. In the year since the
completion of the financial restructuring we
have been able to focus on the operational
performance of the Group. Each of the
non-executive directors has devoted time 
and effort to acquaint themselves with the
Group's technology, supply chain and
customers. Our regular monthly Board
meetings are structured around a
comprehensive review of all aspects of the
business presented by the Chief Executive.
Through an Operations Committee of the
Board we have been able to give greater focus
to the Group's supply chain strategy and gross
margin improvement programmes. 
Senior executive remuneration 
In my statement in last year's annual report, 
I referred to the long-term incentive
arrangements that had been put in place 
for senior executives. I pointed out that
executives were in line to earn significant
rewards for above average performance. I also
made the case that we would not reward for
failure, and that the senior executives had
been given higher risk remuneration packages
than before the restructuring. 
The performance of the Company since the
restructuring has enabled us to meet the first
four targets under the performance conditions
of the incentive plans. To achieve these
targets, the Company had fully repaid, by 
31 March 2004, the US$487 million Junior
Notes issued as part of the restructuring 
and achieved a market capitalisation of over
 1 billion. 
The incentive plans that were put in place as
part of our restructuring were not those that
you would typically expect to see in a more
stable company. The plans were put in place
in consultation with our creditors to incentivise
management against the objectives of our
creditors who were at that time about to
become 99.5% shareholders in the Company.
The plans were designed to avoid being a
cash drain on the Company and to be paid for
by shareholders through a dilution effect as
options vested over the life of the plans. 
Looking forward, we will seek to provide
reward packages that are in line with normal
practice for companies of our size and
international spread, taking account of our
market sector. The current Management Plan
covering approximately fifty senior managers,
including the executive directors, cannot 
fully mature until August 2006 at the earliest.
We will therefore not be proposing a new plan
for senior management until next year's annual
general meeting. 
At the time of our re-listing in May 2003 we
indicated our intention to establish an all
employee option plan which would take the
form of an Inland Revenue approved SAYE
plan in the UK, with variations for different
regional market practices and legislation. 
Such plans would allow employees to save 
a regular amount each month and benefit 
from any growth in the future equity value 
of the Company. At the AGM in September
shareholders will be asked to approve the
establishment of such plans, it is our intention
that they will comply with all aspects of current
best practice. More details can be found in the
circular to shareholders accompanying this
Annual Report.
Shareholder communications 
During the last year we have continued to
focus on improving the information that is
available to shareholders. We now publish full
financial statements and an operating and
financial review within 40 days of the end of
each quarter. Executive management hold
regular meetings with investors after each 
set of results and we have attended a number
of investor conferences during the year to
present our strategy and technology offering. 
A comprehensive investors section on our
website (www.marconi.com) gives access to
all of our published statements and
presentations as well as a calendar of
anticipated future release dates.
In conclusion
The progress Marconi has made in the 
last year is a result of the real dedication,
commitment and hard work of our employees
at all levels of the organisation. On behalf of
the Board, I would like to express my thanks
to all of them. The last three years have been
difficult for the business, I am proud that 
we have risen to the challenges that we 
have faced. 
We face the future with the confidence that
comes from knowing that we have an
excellent set of products, a loyal and satisfied
customer base, people who are dedicated to
putting our customers at the forefront of
everything that they do and the financial
strength to enable us to grow our business.
John Devaney
Chairman
3