 Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013  02
Chairman's 
statement
2012/13 was another year of progress 
for M&S, where a mixed trading 
performance was balanced by good 
progress in building our long-term 
foundations, in line with our key 
strategic goals.
We are implementing large-scale 
revolutionary change that spans our 
supply chain, stores, web platform and 
IT infrastructure - creating a sound base 
for sustainable future growth. However, 
our plans to transform M&S have not 
altered the values on which we were 
founded; our commitment to Quality, 
Value, Service, Innovation and Trust 
continues to set us apart. 
Performance and dividend 
In a difficult year, customers continued to 
place their trust in M&S. We delivered 
consistently strong results in our Food 
business, up 3.9%. Our executive team 
took decisive action to address areas of 
underperformance in our General 
Merchandise business and we began  
to see improvements in our operational 
execution and a reassertion of our  
quality credentials. 
We made significant improvements to 
our UK operations: rolling out our new 
store concept across our estate, opening 
a new e-commerce distribution centre 
and strengthening our systems. Our 
Multi-channel business and our priority 
International markets grew strongly, 
supporting our strategic goals. 
In line with our dividend policy, we 
remain committed to delivering 
consistent returns to our shareholders. 
This year we intend to pay a final 
dividend of 10.8p, unchanged from  
last year.
Governance and the Board 
On joining M&S, I set out three clear 
priorities for the Board and we remain 
firmly focused on these key aspects. 
First, to debate and agree our strategy, 
holding the executive team accountable 
for its execution. Second, to ensure we 
have the most talented team to execute 
our strategy and that we plan effectively 
for succession. Finally, to set the tone of 
 doing the right thing', supported by the 
appropriate governance structures and 
their effective implementation. 
This year we set out some planned 
changes to our non-executive team. 
Having served on the Board since 2006, 
Jeremy Darroch will retire from the Board 
in June 2013. I would like to thank 
Jeremy for his significant contribution  
to M&S and his strong leadership of our 
Audit Committee. We welcomed Andy 
Halford as a non-executive director in 
January. As Chief Financial Officer of 
Vodafone for the past eight years, Andy 
has a wealth of valuable experience and 
will succeed Jeremy as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee from June. With 
continuity in mind, Steven Holliday 
agreed to stand for re-election at the 
AGM for a further year, before stepping 
down at the AGM in July 2014. By this 
time he will have served on the M&S 
Board for ten years and chaired the 
Remuneration Committee for almost  
five years.
After nine years, Steven Sharp, Executive 
Director, Marketing, is retiring from M&S. 
He will step down from the Board 
following the AGM and will continue to 
work in the business as Creative Director 
until 28 February 2014. I would like to 
thank Steve for the significant role he has 
played in shaping the M&S brand and 
reinforcing our quality, style and ethical 
credentials through numerous iconic 
campaigns.
As a result of this change, Patrick 
Bousquet-Chavanne will take over 
responsibility for marketing and will be 
put forward for election to the Board  
as Executive Director, Marketing and 
Business Development at this year's 
AGM. Patrick joined M&S in September 
2012 as Director of Strategy 
Implementation and Business 
Development and has played a key  
role in the development of the new 
marketing strategy in womenswear.
 We are implementing  
revolutionary change 
in our retailing 
systems and 
infrastructure but  
the values on which 
M&S was founded 
remain unaltered. 
 Robert Swannell 
 Chairman
Interim dividend paid on  
11 January 2013 
6.2p per share
Final dividend to be paid  
on 12 July 2013 
10.8p per share
Total dividend for  
2012/13
17.0p per share
DiviDenD Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information
Annual report and financial statements 2013 03
Our governance principles
Leadership
Strategy, performance, responsibility 
and accountability are at the heart  
of your Board's discussions. We 
interrogate each area to ensure 
high-quality decision-making, that in 
turn drives a culture of continuous 
improvement across the business.  
 
 
Effectiveness 
Our performance is independently 
reviewed on a regular basis to  
ensure that the Board remains  
focused, is provided with actions  
for improvement and meets targets  
for future improvement.  
 
 
Accountability 
Strategic decision-making is discussed 
within the context of risk, ensuring that 
we understand and, where possible, 
mitigate those risks to which M&S  
is exposed. 
 
 
Engagement 
Building relationships with private and 
institutional investors is fundamental to 
achieving our goals. We do so through 
face-to-face meetings and a range of 
communications channels.
This year, we made internal changes to 
strengthen our executive team on the 
Board. John Dixon was appointed as 
Executive Director of General 
Merchandise and after 26 years with 
M&S, has a proven track record in a 
variety of roles, most recently as 
Executive Director of Food. Former 
Director of Retail Steve Rowe is a proven 
retailer with 23 years' experience at M&S 
and he has succeeded John as 
Executive Director of our Food business. 
How we do business
The founders of M&S understood clearly 
the importance of  doing the right thing' 
to create long-term value. We continue 
their tradition of responsible behaviour 
through our comprehensive 
environmental and ethical programme, 
Plan A. To succeed over the long term 
businesses need to make connections 
with society and Plan A is our 
manifestation of that. It also makes 
sound economic, as well as moral sense. 
Values matter in business - and we work 
hard to maintain high levels of trust and 
transparency with all our stakeholders 
- particularly across the supply chain. 
Operating our business in the right way 
has benefited us at a time when 
transparency of supply has never been 
more important to customers.
Plan A forces us to think differently and 
accept new ways of doing things. It's 
also influenced how we do business, 
enabling us to be open - both inside  
and outside the Boardroom - about our 
achievements and equally frank when  
we fall short of expectations or targets. 
Over five years since launch, the 
programme's values remain central to 
our long-term future and our connection 
with employees and customers. 
Shareholder engagement
Taking shareholders with us on our 
journey allows them to see clearly the 
progress we are making. We held a 
number of investor and analyst events 
during the year, including a visit to Istanbul 
to see our international operations at first 
hand. We also held a briefing on our 
multi-channel re-platforming, hosted visits 
to our new flagship store at Cheshire 
Oaks and our new e-commerce 
distribution centre at Castle Donington. 
More recently, we held a briefing on our 
plans for our General Merchandise 
business. All of the information shared  
at these events is available to our 
shareholders at marksandspencer.com/
investors.
As part of our commitment to share our 
progress, a preview of our forthcoming 
Autumn/Winter Womenswear collection 
is enclosed with this report. We have 
compiled this exclusive edit for our 
shareholders, which I hope illustrates 
how we have listened and responded to 
our customers. 
The Notice of Meeting that accompanies 
this report highlights a change of venue 
for our AGM. As part of our plan to make 
M&S a more efficient business, this year's 
meeting will be held at Wembley, which 
has the facilities to host all our large-scale 
events, both internal and external. It is 
also easily reached by public transport 
and we encourage all our shareholders, 
large and small, to attend.
Looking ahead
As we move into the third year of our 
plan we are fully committed to its 
execution. Though the retail landscape 
remains challenging, we are in no doubt 
that this is the right course. 
The fundamental and revolutionary 
changes taking place to the 
infrastructure of M&S are essential. Our 
progress will become increasingly visible 
to our stakeholders, as customers 
experience the tangible benefits of the 
improvements we have made. We are 
confident that these changes will deliver 
a more valuable company. 
Delivering and executing this level of 
change requires hard work, 
perseverance and most of all 
commitment. I am always impressed by 
the efforts of our employees - wherever 
they work in M&S - and I thank them 
sincerely for their contribution this year. 
 
Robert Swannell 
Chairman
Read more on page 42
Read more on page 44
Read more on page 45
Read more on page 49