  3 
MediaZest plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Introduction 
 
The results for MediaZest plc (the Group ) for the year ended 31 March 2011 incorporate the results 
of its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned. 
 
Results for the Year and Key Performance Indicators 
 
Turnover for the year was  1,918,000 (2010:  2,572,000), cost of sales was  957,000 (2010: 
 1,451,000) and the Group made a loss for the year, after taxation, of  457,000 (2010:  747,000) after 
finance costs of  83,000 (2010:  32,000) and having paid administrative expenses of  1,335,000 
(2010:  1,836,000). 
 
The basic loss and diluted loss per share was 0 pence (2010: 1 pence). The Group had cash in hand of 
 365,000 (2010:  37,000) at the year end, and an invoice discounting facility over the debtors of 
Touch Vision of which  214,000 (2010:  60,000) was in use at 31 March 2011.  
 
As at 31 March 2011 the Group also had loans from shareholders of  505,000 (2010:  290,000). 
 
As at 31 March 2011, the Group has a current maximum limit of  350,000 under the existing invoice 
discounting facility. The overdraft facility was converted into a loan of  50,000 repayable over three 
years with the same bank on 27 August 2010. 
 
Business overview 
 
The Group operates, currently, two trading businesses, Touch Vision (TV) and MediaZest Ventures 
(MV). TV trades as an Audio Visual supply and installation company whilst MV operates as a  digital 
out of home' creative agency. 
 
The Group's previous accounting period was fifteen months in duration (15 months to 31 March 2010) 
and the Group finished the year, a 12 month accounting period ending 31 March 2011, with monthly 
average sales figures broadly consistent with the prior period. The Group's full year loss for the 
current year was  457,000 (2010 - loss of  747,000). 
 
Group turnover was  1,918,000 (2010 -  2,572,000) with turnover in the latter half of the year being 
less than anticipated due, in part, to disappointing trading over the Christmas and Easter periods. 
However, there was an improvement in gross profit margins as a higher proportion of installation, 
maintenance and consulting services rather than equipment sales constituted the larger part of the 
year's turnover in comparison to the previous period. 
 
In the current year, the Board is targeting a return to improved turnover levels whilst maintaining the 
lower cost base that has been achieved in the last twelve months. The Board's strategy is to attain this 
level of turnover by increasing the higher margin business achievable through MV whilst both 
maintaining and expanding revenue through the Education Framework agreements that TV became a 
participant to in November 2010. 
 
This strategy is already showing evidence of success as turnover in Q1 for the period ending 31 March 
2012 is anticipated to be in excess of  800,000 (a 63% increase on the comparative period), although it 
is evident that margins are under more pressure this year. 
 
The Group raised  440,000 before expenses in March 2011 from both existing and new shareholders, 
the proceeds of which were to be applied towards strengthening the sales team and to improve the 
working capital resources available to the Group's operating subsidiaries.  
   4 
MediaZest plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Business overview (Continued) 
 
James Abdool joined the Group as a consultant in October 2010 and became Group Sales Director in 
August 2011. James is an experienced Sales Director with a strong history of achievement in both 
generating revenue and introducing new business lines. In addition, two further salesmen joined the 
Sales team during the year.  
 
MediaZest Ventures Division 
 
MediaZest Ventures continues to provide the Group with its largest and most attractive opportunities. 
However, operating in the retail sector, projects continue to be under budget pressure although there 
have been positive signs of growth with a number of large scale future projects being discussed with 
clients. 
 
During the year, MediaZest Ventures added a number of high quality new clients, including Microsoft, 
British Gas, Killik and Co, and continued to work with long term clients such as Barclays Bank, JD 
Sports and Footlocker.  
 
One of the most notable developments during the year was the launch of the MediaZest version of 
3M's virtual mannequin  concept which drew widespread acclaim. Since its launch at Luton Airport 
in February 2011 MV has provided units to various clients, including Birmingham Airport, with 
several other potential orders in the pipeline. In addition, the product has been very popular in our 
other markets including retail and education. Plans are in progress to launch an interactive version as 
well as a point-of-sale version.  
 
The Company also continues to be well regarded in the market place for its digital poster projections 
which have been well received and as such this is a product that the Board believes will continue to 
bring ongoing revenues . 
 
In order to improve operational efficiencies and reduce administrative costs, the MediaZest Ventures 
trading division has been transferred into the Touch Vision legal entity. The brand name will be 
continued, trading as a division of Touch Vision Ltd and the original limited company made dormant. 
 
Touch Vision Ltd 
 
The most significant business win during the year for Touch Vision was its success in tendering for a 
number of specific Lots under the Inter-Regional AV Equipment Framework Agreement (Framework 
Agreement). 
 
The Framework Agreement will run for a term of three years, 2 November 2010 to 1 November 2013, 
with provision for an extension of a further year. The 
Framework Agreement covers four purchasing consortia: 
 
  * Higher Education Purchasing Consortium, Wales (HEPCW) - comprising 12 
    members 
    
  * Value Wales - comprises 122 member institutions and includes public sector 
    bodies such as Companies House, the DVLA and the Food Standards Agency, as 
    well as a number of Educational institutions 
    
  * London Universities Purchasing Consortium (LUPC) - comprising 68 full 
    member institutions 
      5 
MediaZest plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Business overview (Continued) 
  
Touch Vision Ltd (continued) 
 
  * Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC) - comprising 112 
    member institutions 
    
The Lots which Touch Vision has successfully tendered for are as follows: 
 
AV equipment supply only - for HEPCW, Value Wales, LUPC, SUPC. This Lot has an estimated 
annual value of  2million and Touch Vision is one of five companies to have been successful in 
tendering for this Lot. 
 
AV presentation systems, equipment and services (including design, supply and installation) - for 
HEPCW, Value Wales and LUPC. The HEPCW and Value Wales element has an estimated annual 
value of  1million and Touch Vision is one of eleven companies to have been successful in tendering 
for this Lot. The LUPC element of this Lot has an estimated annual value of an additional  2.5million 
and Touch Vision is one of nine companies to have been successful in tendering for this section of the 
Lot. 
 
Supply of projector lamps - for all four purchasing consortia. This Lot has an estimated annual value of 
 2million. Touch Vision is one of four companies to have been successful in tendering for this Lot. 
 
The expected total annual spend by the consortia in respect of the Lots to which Touch Vision has 
been appointed is  7.5million. 
 
Although Touch Vision must win business under competitive terms of tender it does give the company 
access to a large number of new potential clients.  Despite only being awarded the opportunity to 
participate the Framework Agreement in November 2010, the company has already won several 
significant pieces of business and developed new client relationships. In light of the ongoing changes 
in funding within the Education sector, it appears that spending for the 2011 calendar year will be 
subdued across these consortia but the Board believes there will be strong ongoing opportunities 
generated from this and subsequent framework agreements and that this will provide additional 
revenue opportunities in the coming years. 
 
Outside of these agreements, the Education division continues to add clients including the Licensed 
Victuallers School in Ascot and Burton College in the Midlands, and performs ongoing work with long 
term clients such as London South Bank University.  
 
Touch Vision's retail customers such as HMV and Kuoni continue to be a significant part of the 
business. These clients continue to provide excellent revenue for the company.   
The more traditional Corporate market is also providing opportunities again for the company as clients 
look for better value solutions and reliable systems providers. This has helped the company win a 
number of new clients including ETC Venues in the conference facilities market. 
 
 
 
 
 
   6 
 
MediaZest plc 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
Business overview (Continued) 
 
Outlook 
 
As noted above, the Company has increased its resource in its sales and marketing function and this 
investment is leading to new business opportunities. 
  
Work in progress during the year to date includes several significant projects. Firstly, Touch Vision 
has completed an installation programme for a large UK University in excess of  300,000 which was 
outside of the Framework Agreement noted above. Second, the Framework Agreement has also 
provided some ongoing equipment only purchases which, despite being of a lower margin than our 
installation work, have enabled TV to buy more effectively and begin developing relationships with 
new clients. 
 
In the corporate market, MV's hologram solutions have been used by blue chip companies including 
Astra Zeneca and British Telecom. We have also undertaken a branch refurbishment programme with 
the West Bromwich Building Society which is currently ongoing.  
 
Looking forward, the Group's businesses operate in markets that are affected by both the level of retail 
customer demand and government/local authority expenditure. Whilst customer demand and interest is 
good, presently, the Board recognises that a re-emergence of an economic slowdown may have an 
effect on future trading performance. 
 
However, the Board believes that the Group is now more versatile and nimble enough to deal with 
changes in the business environment on a more timely basis and as a consequence give itself a greater 
ability to cope with events beyond its control, than in previous years. Notwithstanding, the Board is 
committed to moving the Group forward to profitability and believes that the strategy that it has 
implemented is achievable. 
 
 
 
 
 
Lance O'Neill          
Chairman 
 
5th September 2011 
 
 
 
 
 