 Chairman's Statement
04 The Medical House PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Results for the year just ended are very
similar to the previous year and in line with
market expectations, albeit achieved
through contrasting fortunes of our two
divisions.
I am pleased to report that revenues in our
Drug Delivery Division for the year-ended
30th June 2007 grew strongly to  1.7m
from  0.6m in the previous year. This
represents an increase of over 160% and
builds on a 47% increase over the year
before that. This strong sales growth
enabled the Drug Delivery Division to report
operating profits for the first time in its
history and we are confident that this trend
is set to continue.
Overall group revenues were reduced by
approximately 9% however, due primarily
to a softening of demand in the
Orthopaedic industry which resulted in a
very weak second half for our Orthopaedic
Division. I am pleased to report that this
downward trend is now reversing and
results since our year-end are up
significantly on the comparable period of
last year.
In order to, align ourselves with the standard
practice of our client base, we will also be
changing our year-end to 31st December.
This will mean that we will be reporting on a
6-month period to 31st December 2007 and
then annually thereafter
Medical House Products Ltd (MHP)
Drug Delivery Division 2007: Operating
Profit  503,000 (2006: Loss  308,000)
This has been a year of considerable
achievement which saw MHP sign a very
significant deal with a major global
pharmaceutical company. This involves a
contract to customise, license and supply our
ASI disposable autoinjector for
administration of a new drug being
developed by our client whose identity will
be disclosed in due course. As reported at the
time of signing this agreement, the deal is
projected to generate revenues for MHP of
around  27m over the first 5 years of the
licensing and supply contract and represents
a major advance in our company's
development. A substantial proportion of
these revenues relate to technology licensing
payments, and therefore a significant
percentage of the revenues will impact
straight to our bottom line. The
customisation aspect of the project is
proceeding well and we are pleased to
announce that the device has achieved
CE-mark European regulatory approval and
that we are well advanced in preparation of
the corresponding US regulatory submission.
A measure of their commitment to this
technology and significance of the project is
evidenced by our client already initiating
discussions to extend the use of this device to
other compounds which they have in
development. The joint project team
continue to work very hard to enable our
partner to launch the ASI with their drug at
the earliest possible time, with the best
indication for the drug/device combination to
be on the market in around 18 months' time.
During the past year we also announced an
extension of our ASI development
agreement for a European Government
Agency. The contract is worth  1m to us
over 12 months and this second phase of an
exciting and challenging project is
progressing well. We see significant
potential not only with our Government
Agency client, but also in the wider
application of the particular version of the
ASI which is being developed in this
relationship.
Another of our ongoing ASI projects is that
with Cardinal Health, Martindale Pharma
(Cardinal). This relationship is ongoing but
divestment by Cardinal of  particular part of
its global business resulted in project timing 05
being set back. We are now working with
Cardinal to progress this project, albeit
perhaps in a different manner to what was
first envisaged.
I mentioned in my last report to
shareholders in March 2007 that we were
developing other variations of the ASI
autoinjector, such as a mini  version for
applications and therapies which require
users to carry the device outside the home.
We have had a great deal of interest in this
mini  version, most particularly for
emergency treatments and we are
confident that various ongoing negotiations
will lead to generation of considerable
revenue for MHP in the coming years.
All indications suggest that disposable
autoinjector technology is proving to be as
attractive for pharmaceutical companies as
we had anticipated and we continue to
actively promote our ASI system to potential
licensees and partners. As shareholders 
will appreciate, the evaluation and
decision-making process for a new drug
delivery system can often be lengthy, given
that there may well be several billions of
dollars of new drug sales at stake. It is very
heartening to report, however, that in
various user trials conducted on behalf of
pharmaceutical companies, our ASI device
consistently enjoys high approval ratings
from the ultimate arbiters - patients -
primarily due to its very simple and intuitive
operation. With the ASI suitable of adaption
for a wide range of self-injectable drugs and
therapies, we remain confident of adding to
out growing portfolio of licensing
relationships.
There have also been positive developments
in relation to our needle-free injector
activities. Firstly, we believe we are close to
completing development of the new
needle-free system commissioned by Merck
Serono (Serono) for use with their human
growth hormone products. This system
incorporates certain features at our client's
request which have not previously been
incorporated in needle-free jet injector
devices. These have presented specific
development challenges which have taken
time to address. The device is now
performing well in testing and, along with
out partner, we are very excited about its
prospects in the human growth hormone
market. We anticipate that we will
commence supply of this new system within
the first half of 2008. Secondly we disposed
of our needle-free insulin injector business
in August 2007 for a cash sum of  800,000.
The insulin injector business, which
primarily involved selling products to private
individuals and relatively small distribution
companies, no longer fitted our model of
licensing technologies to major
pharmaceutical companies. We did
however retain all rights to use this needle-
free technology for applications other than
injection of insulin for humans.
All in all it has been a year of substantial
progress for MHP and we are confident 
of further success in this Drug Delivery
Division.
Eurocut Limited
Orthopaedic Division 2007: Operating
Loss   (856,000) ( 2006: Profit  52,000)
Unfortunately, Eurocut has experienced its
most difficult year due to the combined
effect of a weak Orthopaedic market and to
the challenges caused by its largest customer
having FDA approval delayed for a major
new product line. I am pleased to report that
the positive steps we have been taking over
the last 12 months to rebuild the company
into a more diverse and stronger business
are now having a positive effect.
There are also clear signs that the weakness
experienced in the orthopaedic market
during 2006/7 is now reversing and that Chairman's Statement continued
06 The Medical House PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
demand has improved although the market
still remains challenging. During the past
year we have won business from new
customers in new industries, and although
some of these are already providing good
levels of income, there are indications that a
number are capable of becoming larger
customers than our traditional orthopaedic
client base. The new markets in which we
now operate cover aerospace, marine,
defence and oil & gas. As reported
previously, these industries tend to offer
prospects of higher margin business, largely
due to the consistency of the work
undertaken which allows us to operate with
greater efficiency. We are currently replacing
machinery which is not being fully utilised,
with plant and equipment which is more
appropriate for these new markets as wells
as for the orthopaedic applications. Current
trading is better than it was in the first two
quarters of this calendar year and although
we are not yet generating the level of
revenues which will put the division back
into profit, it is realistic to believe that a
continuation of the current trend would see
a return to profit in the foreseeable future.
We also continue to develop our own
technologies and products, as we see this as
an area which can produce substantial value
for shareholders, as demonstrated in our
Drug Delivery Division. In particular, we have
attracted much interest in our disposable
instrumentation and now have products
ready for major trials, following which 
we anticipate we will have a very exciting
product to license and manufacture. We see
this as a key element of our strategy going
forward and one which brings with it
increased synergy between our two
divisions, as we seek to commercially exploit
innovative intellectual property.
During the year we have had to make a
number of cost saving measures which have
resulted in exceptional costs of  67,000.
This has had the effect of reducing our
break-even level of revenues and improving
efficiency. There were also a number of
other one-off costs, such as recruitment
expenses incurred in building a new
management team which, although they do
not meet the definition of exceptionals ,
nevertheless amounted to  51,000.
Whilst returning to profitability is not 
reliant on the return of the work which 
has been delayed by the FDA, this will be
most welcome and would provide
additional stimulus to the recovery which 
is already underway. There are indications 
for a reasonable prospect of orders being
received for this product during the next
12 months. However, given the delays
experienced to-date, it is probable that the
levels of orders are likely to be well below
those enjoyed two years ago.
Following Eurocut's most difficult period 
in its 20-year history, I would like to pay
tribute to the management and staff who
have worked very hard to transform this
business under difficult circumstances. 
The management team has been led 
by Stephen Shaw and we now feel it is
appropriate that, as Managing Director of
Eurocut, he should join the main 
board of The Medical House PLC; that
appointment will be effective from today.
Dividend
Our policy of developing and bringing new
products to market remains unchanged and
the Board does not therefore recommend a
dividend for the year to 30th June 2007.
Colleagues
We have made substantial progress under
what, at times, have been very difficult
circumstances and this has required not only
skill and expertise but an enormous amount
of commitment by a group of people with
whom I am proud to work. 07
Current Trading and Prospects
Prospects for the Group are excellent and,
as sales in the Drug Delivery Division
continue to grow, we are confident that this
will produce good growth in profits. The
timing of those profits will largely depend
on product launches by our clients and
partners together with the extent and pace
of the progress now being made at Eurocut.
Ian Townsend
18th October 2007