 www.meriden-group.co.uk
Substantial shareholdings
Apart from the interests of the directors above, there are no other shareholders who have an interest
in excess of 3% of the issued share capital of the company, which have been notified to the company
as at 24 November 2003.
Payment to suppliers
It is the Group's policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers by
means ranging from standard terms and conditions to individually negotiated contracts and pay
suppliers according to agreed terms and conditions, provided that the supplier meets those terms and
conditions.  The Group does not have a standard or code that deals specifically with the payment of
suppliers.
Trade creditors for the company at the year end amount to 48 days (2002:58 days) of average supplies
for the period.
Directors' responsibilities for the financial statements
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that
year.  In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements 
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and Group to enable them to ensure the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.  They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.  The directors are responsible for ensuring that the directors' report and other
information included in the annual report is prepared in accordance with company law in the United
Kingdom.
The Group has a website which contains up to date information on the Group's activities and published
financial results. The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of the directors.
Auditors
PKF offer themselves for reappointment as auditors in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies
Act 1985.
Page 9
The directors present their report together with the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 July 2003.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of business
services.
Business review
The Group generated a profit for the year ended 31 July 2003 before
taxation of  705,155 (2002:  609,289), which after taxation
amounted to  507,563 (2002:  434,711).  The directors
recommend the payment of a final dividend amounting to  37,700,
representing 0.013p per ordinary share in addition to the interim
dividend of 0.01p per ordinary share paid in April 2003. This
dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events
On 13 August 2003, the Group purchased the business assets of
Eltora Digital Limited for  116,292 to be satisfied entirely by the
issue of loan notes.  The assets comprised the stocks, goodwill and
trade of Eltora Digital Limited.  The loan notes bear interest at 2% over base rate and are repayable on
31 October 2004. The acquisition of the Eltora Business will strengthen the existing Information
Technology Systems and Assurance division within Meriden, which has to date outsourced the supply of
hardware when providing IT solutions to its clients and the acquisition will therefore enable Meriden to
provide a complete IT solutions service to its clients and also broaden the client base of the division.
Directors
The membership of the Board and the interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the
company as at 1 August 2002 and 31 July 2003 were as follows:
31 July 2003 1 August 2002
Options to Options to
Ordinary purchase Ordinary purchase 
shares of shares of shares of shares of 
0.1p each 0.1p each 1p each 1p each
Number Number Number Number
Derek Hall 400,000 1,400,000 40,000 140,000
Russell Stevens    232,000,000 - 25,000,000 -
Both of the directors have consultancy agreements with the company.  The contracts continue until
terminated by 3 months notice on either side for Mr Stevens and one month's notice on either side for
Mr Hall and are subject to each director's re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting under the
rotation provisions of the company's Articles of Association. 
The Board is considering a number of individuals with a view to appointing a further non-executive
director in the near future.
Page 8
The innovative business services group
Founded and Managed by
Meriden Group Plc
Report of the Directors
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
RW Stevens
Director
27 November 2003 www.meriden-group.co.uk
Page 11 Page 10
The innovative business services group
Founded and Managed by
Meriden Group Plc
Corporate Governance
The company has applied principles of corporate governance
commensurate with its size.
Directors
The company supports the concept of an effective board leading and
controlling the company.  The Board is responsible for approving
company policy and strategy and it meets ten times per annum.
The Chief Executive supplies the Board with appropriate and timely
information, in particular with respect to acquisition targets, and the
directors are free to seek any further information they consider
necessary.  All directors have access to advice from the company
secretary and independent professional advice at the company's
expense.  
The Board consists of one executive director, who holds the key
operational position in the company and one non-executive director,
who brings a breadth of experience and knowledge.  The Chairman
of the Board is Mr Derek Hall and the company's business is run by
Mr Russell Stevens, the Chief Executive.  Mr Derek Hall is the non-
executive director.
The biographies of the directors are set out below:
Derek Hall (Non-executive Chairman), aged 59, is currently the Chief Executive Officer of Raft
International Plc.  In 1998 and following 22 years service, he retired as a managing director of JP Morgan
where he held a variety of managerial positions in London and continental Europe.  Since that time his
work experience has included consulting assignments specialising in the management of information
technology and operations in the finance sector. Prior to joining JP Morgan he was a management
consultant with Arthur Andersen. He holds a PhD in engineering from London University in 1970.  
Russell Stevens (Chief Executive), aged 36, is a certified chartered accountant and in 1991 founded
Hamiltons, a multi-disciplinary accountancy practice. He became managing director of Hamiltons Group
Limited on its incorporation in May 1997, subsequently stepping down to take up the position of Chief
Executive with Meriden Group Plc. He has a portfolio of unquoted companies in which he has active
investments.  Russell is also Managing Director of Bidtimes Plc, an investment company, which he floated
on AIM in July 2000 and non-executive deputy chairman of Innobox Plc, which he floated on AIM in
January 2001 and which operates in the licensed trade sector.
A casual vacancy exists for a non-executive and the Board is considering a number of candidates with
a view to appointing a further non-executive shortly.
The directors have each entered into consultancy agreements with the company, which are terminable
by either party with three month's written notice in the case of Mr Stevens and one month's notice in
the case of Mr Hall.
Relations with shareholders
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the company's
strategy and performance.  The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with private investors
and they are encouraged to participate.  The directors will be available to answer questions.  Separate
resolutions are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a
resolution to approve the annual report and accounts.
All shareholders can gain access to information about the company through the company's website
www.meriden-group.co.uk.
Accountability and audit
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Derek Hall (Chairman), being Non-executive Director and Mr Russell
Stevens, being Chief Executive.  The terms of reference of the Committee include keeping under review
the scope and results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness.  This includes reviewing the nature
and extent of non-audit services supplied by the external auditors to the company, seeking to balance
objectivity and value for money.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard shareholders'
investment and the company's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.  The system of internal
financial control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or profit.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the company
does not justify it at present.  However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The key features of the company's systems of internal financial control are as follows:
  the company is headed by an effective board, which leads and controls the company;
  there is a clear division of responsibilities in running the board and running the company's business;
  the board receives and reviews on a timely basis financial and operating information appropriate to 
being able to discharge its duties; and
  the Board receives and reviews on a timely basis information regarding potential acquisition targets.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this reason they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.