 www.meriden-group.co.uk
As mentioned in the Chairman's Statement, Mr Proctor has decided to retire from the board
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and accordingly is not standing for re-election. As
a result of this vacancy, the board will shortly be considering a number of individuals with a
view to appointing a further non-executive director in the near future.
Substantial shareholdings
Apart from the interests of the directors above, there are no other shareholders who have
an interest in excess of 3% of the issued share capital of the company, which have been
notified as at 9 September 2002.
Payment to suppliers
It is the company's policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions
with suppliers by means ranging from standard terms and conditions to individually
negotiated contracts and pay suppliers according to agreed terms and conditions, provided
that the supplier meets those terms and conditions.  The company does not have a
standard or code that deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
Trade creditors at the period end amount to 64 days of average supplies for the period.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial
period that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group
and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.  In preparing those financial
statements, the directors are required to:
- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
- state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements 
- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  The directors are
responsible for ensuring that the directors' report and other information included in the
annual report is prepared in accordance with company law in the United Kingdom.
Auditors
PKF were appointed auditors during the year. PKF is eligible for appointment as auditors to
the group and a resolution for its appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Page 9
The directors present their report together with the audited
financial statements for the period from incorporation on
15 February 2001 to 31 July 2002.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of
business services.
Business review
The Company commenced trading on 14 August 2001 and
there was a profit for the first period, ended 31 July 2002,
before taxation of  609,289, which after taxation amounted
to  434,711.
Dividend
The directors recommend the payment of a maiden
dividend amounting to  58,000, representing 0.2p per
ordinary share. This dividend will, subject to shareholder
approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, be
paid on 31 October 2002 in respect of all shareholders
registered on 4 October 2002.
Directors
The membership of the board is set out below.  The interests of the directors and their
families in the shares of the company as at 31 July 2002 were as follows:
Options to
Ordinary shares purchase shares 
of 1p each of 1p each
2002 2002
Number Number
Derek Hall (Appointed 15 February 2001) 40,000 140,000
Russell Stevens (Appointed 15 February 2001) 25,000,000 -
Robert Proctor (Appointed 1 April 2001 and retiring 20,000 140,000
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting)
Russell Stevens had one ordinary share of 2 pence at date of appointment. The other
directors had no ordinary shares at the dates of their appointments.  Share options were
issued on 14 August 2002.
The original director, Temple Secretaries Limited, was appointed and resigned on 15
February 2001.
All of the directors have consultancy agreements with the company.  The contracts continue
until terminated by 3 months notice on either side for Mr Stevens and one months notice on
either side for Mr Hall and Mr Proctor and are subject to each director's re-appointment at the
Annual General Meeting under the rotation provisions of the company's Articles of Association.
Page 8
The innovative business services group
Founded and Managed by
Meriden Group Plc
Report of the Directors
By order of the Board
Mr Russell Stevens
Director
23 September 2002 www.meriden-group.co.uk
After Mr Proctor's retirement at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a casual vacancy will
exist for a non-executive director.  The board intends to consider a number of candidates for
this vacant position with a view to appointing a further non-executive shortly.
The directors have each entered into consultancy agreements with the company which are
terminable by either party with three months' written notice in the case of Mr Stevens and one
month's notice in the case of Mr Hall and Mr Proctor.
Relations with shareholders
The company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the company's
strategy and performance.  The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with private
investors and they are encouraged to participate.  The directors will be available to answer
questions.  Separate resolutions are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper
consideration and there is a resolution to approve the annual report and accounts.
All shareholders can gain access to information about the company through the company's
website www.meriden-group.com.
Accountability and audit
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Derek Hall (Chairman), and until the date of his retirement,
Mr Robert Proctor, being Non-executive Director.  The terms of reference of the Committee
include keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit and its cost
effectiveness.  This includes reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services supplied by
the external auditors to the company, seeking to balance objectivity and value for money.
Internal control
The board is responsible for maintaining a strong system of internal control to safeguard
shareholders' investment and the company's assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.  The
system of internal financial control is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement of profit.
The board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided the size of the
company does not justify it at present.  However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The key features of the company's systems of internal financial control are as follows:
  the company is headed by an effective board, which leads and controls the company;
  there is a clear division of responsibilities in running the board and running the 
company's business;
  the board receives and reviews on a timely basis financial and operating information 
appropriate to being able to discharge its duties; and
  the board receives and reviews on a timely basis information regarding potential 
acquisition targets.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  For this
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Page 11 Page 10
The innovative business services group
Founded and Managed by
Meriden Group Plc
Corporate Governance
The company has applied principles of corporate governance
commensurate with its size.
Directors
The company supports the concept of an effective board
leading and controlling the company.  The board is responsible
for approving company policy and strategy and it meets ten
times per annum.  The Chief Executive supplies the board with
appropriate and timely information, in particular with respect
to acquisition targets, and the directors are free to seek any
further information they consider necessary.  All directors have
access to advice from the company secretary and independent
professional advice at the company's expense.  
The board consists of one executive director, who holds the key
operational position in the company and two non-executive
directors, who bring a breadth of experience and knowledge.
This provides a balance whereby the board's decision making
cannot be dominated by an individual.
The Chairman of the board is Mr Derek Hall and the company's business is run by Mr Russell
Stevens, the Chief Executive.  Mr Derek Hall, and until his retirement, Mr Robert Proctor are the
non-executive directors.  The biographies of the directors are set out below:
Derek Hall (Non-executive Chairman), aged 58, is an independent consultant specialising in the
management of information technology and operations in the finance sector. He is the chairman
of the Trustees of a large UK pension plan. In 1998 and following 22 years service, he retired
as a managing director of JP Morgan where he held a variety of managerial positions in London
and continental Europe. Prior to joining JP Morgan he was a management consultant with Arthur
Andersen. He holds a PhD in engineering from London University in 1970.
Russell Stevens (Chief Executive), aged 35, is a certified chartered accountant and in 1991
founded Hamiltons, a multi-disciplinary accountancy practice.  He became managing director of
Hamiltons Group Limited on its incorporation in May 1997, subsequently stepping down to take
up the position of Chief Executive with Meriden Group Plc.  He has a portfolio of unquoted
companies in which he has active investments and specialises in providing strategic advice to
growing businesses.  Russell is also Managing Director of Bidtimes Plc, an investment company
which he floated on AIM in July 2000 and non-executive deputy chairman of Innobox Plc, which
he floated on AIM in January 2001 and which operates in the packaging and distribution sector.
Robert Proctor (Non-executive), aged 36, is the entrepreneur behind the concept of the Internet
Exchange chain of Internet cafes where he is an executive director. Robert set up the first
Internet Exchange in the Whiteleys Shopping Centre, Bayswater in 1996 and the company now
has locations across Europe.  He has extensive experience in the food and drink industry, where
he acted as a sole trader running his own caf  outlets. Robert also worked in the UK and the US
for Mecca Leisure PLC, Bonanza Restaurants and Mansfield Breweries.