 page 2 Antonov plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Chairman's Statement
Roumen Antonov
The 2003 financial year was one of both transition and significant product
advance as the Group focused on the commercial exploitation of its innovative,
patented technology .
From a technology point of view it has completed all major development work
on the AAD family of transmissions. It has also completed design work on its
first larger car (+ 2 litre capacity engined vehicles) transmission, which was
launched after the year-end.
AAD development completed
Design of Antonov's fifth generation AAD transmission was completed in
December 2003 following a thorough technical evaluation of the fourth-
generation AAD six-speed gearbox together with both OEMs and Tier 1
gearbox manufacturers.The new design encompasses all of the modifications
and improvements indicated as most desirable by car manufacturers.
The AAD can be configured as a four, five or six-speed 120 - 200 Nm
automatic transmission.The transmission can produce any overall ratio and any
steps in any of the speeds.The initial six-speed design has an overall length of
320mm, while the four-speed variant is only 250mm long.The packaging is
very compact weighing a maximum of 60kgs.This is materially smaller and
lighter than conventional automatic gearboxes.The new design can be
produced using conventional transmission manufacturing processes.
Antonov's newly designed AAD is designed for installation in small cars. Its
expected cost, performance and efficiency will make it a serious alternative to
manual gearboxes, giving the motoring public a realistic choice that was not
previously available to them.
A prototype six-speed AAD is currently being built with the assistance of
our industry partner.This process is nearing completion, with an expected
delivery date to our industry partner in July 2004.
Generating remarkable benefits
including cost and efficiency
The AAD's expected cost,
performance and efficiency will
make it a serious alternative to
manual gearboxes. 
The Group has made significant progress
in the commercialisation of its technology.
Collaboration with our tier 1 industry partner
has accelerated this process considerably. 
Kinematic of the AAD page 3 Antonov plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Dual Clutch Transmission 
Since the year-end the Group has completed the design of a new transmission
for larger (+ 2 litre capacity engined vehicles) automatic drive motor vehicles,
which can have six, seven or even more speeds if required.This product, which
is based on existing dual clutch technology, will be known as the Dual Clutch
Antonov  or DCA.The DCA encompasses fundamental new inventions for
which patent protection has been applied.
The DCA is expected to be both smaller and lighter than existing offerings.
These advantages translate into a wider application base and lower manufacturing
costs.The design is also easily adaptable to four-wheel drive applications, which
will for the first time allow the Group to target the expanding SUV market. It is
also suitable for installation in high-speed direct injection diesel engined motor
vehicles, another rapidly expanding market segment.
As part of the Company's evolving strategy, the DCA will also be developed
as a manual gearbox, again with the option of six, seven or even more speeds.
The main attraction of the manual DCA will be its small size and lower weight
when compared to currently available large vehicle manual gearboxes. From a
manufacturing point of view an important advantage will be the large number
of common components that it will share with the automatic version of the
DCA, which will positively influence the costs of both units.
The DCA is now in the prototype development stage and will be on display at
the Paris Motor Show in late September 2004.
Industry Partner
Following our announcement in February 2004 of the signing of a Heads of
Agreement  to collaborate with a tier 1 transmission manufacturer we and our
partner have made significant progress. Development of the AAD range from
the prototype stage through to production readiness is progressing well. In
addition both parties have agreed to also collaborate on the DCA range that
was announced in May 2004.
AAD component gears
Dual Clutch (DCA) Kinematic page 4 Antonov plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Chairman's Statement
continued
A detailed route map for Antonov and our
industry partner has been agreed and during
the rest of 2004 we will jointly optimise the
optimum manufacturing route that will deliver
a globally cost competitive and uniquely
featured set of products. 
A detailed route map for both parties has been agreed and during the rest of
2004 the parties will jointly finalise the optimum-manufacturing route that will
deliver a globally cost competitive and uniquely featured set of products. In the
same time frame vehicles with the prototype AAD 6 speed will be placed with
the OEM customers of our partner.
More details of the partnership will be announced at the Paris Motor Show
in September 2004 when our product portfolio will be showcased to the
automotive world.
Board Restructuring
It was announced in October 2002 that managing director Mike Emmerson,
who has been with Antonov for over ten years, had indicated his desire to step
down from the Board by the end of March 2003. On 17 February 2003 Martin
Schinzig was appointed as Chief Executive Officer.
Martin Schinzig instituted a period of significant change in the Group,
steering the focus of the Company towards the commercialisation of its products.
These changes were largely completed by the end of 2003 and so it was with
regret that, in March 2004, Martin stepped down from the Board for personal
reasons. A planned restructuring came into effect with the Board dividing CEO
responsibilities between Armand Dahi, previously Commercial Director, who
becomes Chief Operating Officer, and David Bovell, Finance Director.
Armand Dahi has significant experience of working within the automotive
industry and prior to joining Antonov held senior management positions within
Peugeot and Michelin.
During 2003 John Dickens and Karl Ludvigsen, both long serving non-
executives directors decided to retire from the Board. I would like to thank
both John and Karl for their invaluable loyalty and support during the
Company's formative years.
In August 2003 the executive team was strengthened with the appointment
of David Bovell as Finance Director. David has been associated with the
Company since 1994 when he was instrumental in initiating the listing of
Antonov plc on the London Stock Exchange. He has also successfully
completed a number of funding raising exercises for the Group in the
intervening period.
Transmission assembly
AAD prototype development
test data
Implementing simple ideas
AAD planetary gear and differential page 5 Antonov plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
In March 2004, the Board was strengthened by the appointment of
Christopher Ross as a non-executive director. He is a senior automotive
industry executive, with a wealth of experience in interfacing with customers,
both in introducing new patented technology and in signing production licence
agreements with car manufacturers and their tier 1 suppliers.
Summary & Prospects
The Company's technology is being evaluated in depth by a larger number of
OEMs than ever before.The Board believes that the OEMs now recognise the
AAD as a commercially viable automatic alternative to mass-produced small-car
manual transmissions. Furthermore, interest is being driven by regulatory
demands, whereby all OEMs will be required by 2008 to begin adhering to
ever more stringent CO
2
emission regulations.We expect that initial series
production of the AAD will commence in the near future.
With the launch of the DCA gearbox we will for the first time be targeting
the larger car market, an area where automatic gearboxes already predominate.
We also expect that automatic dual clutch gearboxes, because of their inherent
advances over currently available technology, will increasingly replace
conventional gearboxes.This new development therefore strengthens our
commercial position considerably and more than doubles our potential
customer base
The AAD advances combined with the development of our new larger car
product, the DCA, means that the Group now has a product offering for most
segments of the automotive market, our primary area of focus.We also anticipate
launching new products for non-automotive applications in due course.
The Group has made significant progress in the commercialisation of its
technology. Collaboration with our tier 1 industry partner has accelerated this
process considerably. I therefore look forward to updating shareholders with
further progress in the near future.
Roumen Antonov
Chairman
14 June 2004
The Group now has a product
offering for most segments of
the outomotive market, our
primary area of focus. 
Computer generated
3D image of the
new DCA
Cutaway of the AAD